 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Delivery time Circassia in brief
Circassia is a world-class specialty biopharmaceutical business  
focused on allergy and respiratory disease. The Company has an 
established commercial infrastructure, marketed products, a pipeline  
of near-term therapies and a portfolio of next generation treatments 
targeting multi-billion dollar market opportunities. Circassia sells its  
novel, market-leading products for asthma management directly to 
allergy/asthma specialists in the United States and Germany. Its products 
are also promoted in a number of other countries by the Company’s 
international network of partners. 
Circassia’s broad-based development pipeline includes a range of 
treatments for allergy and respiratory disease. Circassia’s most advanced 
next-generation immunotherapy is currently in phase III testing for cat 
allergy, and is the first in a new class of treatments, Synthetic Peptide 
Immuno-Regulatory Epitopes (SPIREs). Three other SPIREs, targeting 
house dust mite, ragweed and grass allergies, have completed clinical 
proof-of-concept phase IIb studies. Circassia’s lead asthma treatment, 
which targets substitution of GSK’s Flixotide
®
 pMDI, is approved in the 
UK, and the Company is developing therapies targeting direct substitution 
of Seretide
®
 pMDI and Serevent
®
 pMDI. The Company is also developing 
a number of novel treatments, including a fixed dose ‘triple’ combination 
containing an inhaled corticosteroid, long-acting beta agonist and 
long-acting muscarinic antagonist. 
 Contents
 Strategic report
01 Investment proposition
02 We think globally
06 Determined to deliver
10 Delivery time
14 Delivering a broad and balanced portfolio
16 Chairman’s statement
17 Operational and financial highlights
18 Chief Executive’s review
19 Business model
20 Strategy and progress against objectives
22 Strategic review
29 Financial review
32 Corporate social responsibility
34 Risks and risk management
 Corporate governance
38 Board of Directors
40 Corporate governance
50 Remuneration Committee report
75 Directors’ report
78 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
79 Independent Auditors’ report
	 Group 	 financial 	 statements
86 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
87 Consolidated statement of financial position
88 Parent Company statement of financial position
89 Group and parent Company statement of cash flows
90 Group statement of changes in equity
91 Parent Company statement of changes in equity
92 Notes to the financial statements
118 Glossary
120 Advisors and contact details  
See page 02
 
See page 06
 
See page 10
W e 	 t h i n k 	 g l o b a l l y	 
Because our target 
diseases know no 
borders
De t e r mi n e d 	 t o 	 d el i v e r	 
I m p r o v i n g 	 h e a l t h 	 i s 	 a	
ma j o r 	 o p p o rtu n i ty
Del i v e ry 	 t ime	 
W e ’ r e 	 d el i v e r i n g 	 o n	
o u r 	 p o t e n t i a l
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 01 We think globally  
Because our target 
diseases know no 
borders
Allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease. All cause misery. All are 
global. We’re targeting each with our unique 
technologies. 
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 02 ToleroMune
®
 technology for 
innovative allergy treatments
Our next generation 
immunotherapies have the 
potential to revolutionise allergy 
treatment. They are based on 
ToleroMune
®
 technology that 
identifies unique combinations of 
synthetic peptide T-cell epitopes 
capable of rapidly inducing 
immune tolerance. As a result, our 
allergy products are the first in a 
new class of treatments, Synthetic 
Peptide Immuno-Regulatory 
Epitopes (SPIREs).
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 03 3 sec 
Half of Americans  
with asthma had an 
attack during the year. 
That’s more than  
11 million asthma attacks 
annually. That’s one 
every three seconds. 
COPD is a major cause of disability. It is the 
third biggest cause of death in the United 
States, where millions of people have been 
diagnosed. COPD develops slowly, with the 
symptoms often worsening over time. 
Asthma is a common disease, and affects 
people of all ages. In Europe about 30 million 
aged under 45 have the disease.
We think globally  
Because our target 
diseases know no borders
235m people 
Asthma is one of the world’s major non-
communicable diseases. WHO estimates it  
affects 235 million people globally. And it’s  
the most common chronic disease in children.
3rd 
biggest 
killer
Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) 
is a major killer. It was 
responsible for over  
three million deaths in 2012.  
WHO predicts it will  
become the third biggest 
cause of death by 2030. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 04 Allergies cause chronic misery
Allergies are an overreaction of the immune system to substances 
that wouldn’t normally be harmful. They are extremely common, 
affecting over one billion people worldwide, and allergic rhinitis  
is the world’s most prevalent chronic non-communicable disease.  
It is characterised by sneezing, blocked nose and itching and 
burning eyes, and allergies can cause skin rashes and itching  
as well as wheezing or chest constriction. As a result, allergy can 
cause chronic misery, greatly impacting quality of life by causing 
sleep problems and fatigue, reducing concentration and limiting 
social functioning. 
Asthma has no cure
Asthma is a common lung disease. It is the world’s most  
frequent chronic disease in children, and WHO estimates that  
the number of people with asthma will increase by more than  
100 million in the next 10 years. Asthma is characterised by 
chronically inflamed airways, which can be irritated by external 
triggers, such as allergens, tobacco smoke, cold air, chest infections 
and certain chemicals. This can cause airway contraction and 
secretion of mucus into the airways, making breathing more 
difficult. Consequently, asthma can result in symptoms such as 
coughing, wheezing, breathlessness and chest tightness. Asthma 
exacerbations occur when the number and/or level of symptoms 
increase and become more intense. Severe asthma exacerbations 
can require emergency care, and can even be fatal. 
COPD is under-diagnosed and life-threatening
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an umbrella 
term, which incorporates chronic lung diseases that limit the 
lungs’ airflow, and includes the previously used diagnoses of 
‘emphysema’ and ‘chronic bronchitis’. The primary cause is tobacco 
smoke and the most common symptoms are breathlessness, 
excessive sputum and chronic cough. However, rather than just 
‘smoker’s cough’, COPD is under-diagnosed and life-threatening 
and can progressively lead to death. WHO estimates that COPD  
is responsible for over three million deaths annually, accounting  
for six percent of global mortality.
$50bn 
Asthma affects more than 
20 million people in the US. 
More than six million are 
children. Treatment costs are 
significant. By 2002, they’d 
reached over $50 billion. 
10–20% of 
population 
Allergies are a serious global health issue. 
Allergic diseases affect around one billion 
people worldwide. Allergic rhinitis is the 
world’s most prevalent chronic non-
communicable disease.
Pandemic
Allergy is considered a public  
health pandemic in Europe.  
It affects over 150 million people,  
and it’s the continent’s most  
prevalent chronic disease. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 05 Determined to deliver  
Improving health is a 
major opportunity
We plan to revolutionise allergy therapy. 
We’re transforming the management 
of asthma. We intend to boost COPD 
treatment. We want to improve the lives  
of sufferers worldwide.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 06 Particle-engineering technology 
for asthma and COPD treatments
We are developing particle-
engineered products to substitute 
for successful asthma therapies 
and improve COPD treatment. 
Respiratory medicines are 
notoriously difficult to produce, 
and we use focused radial 
ultrasound to control particle 
properties to overcome these 
challenges. Our unique approach 
is broadly applicable across 
product and device types, giving 
us a major advantage.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 07 24m 
Cat allergy is common. 24 million 
Americans are cat-allergic, and over 
one million of them consult a specialist 
each year. Of these, few accept 
currently-available immunotherapy, 
and fewer still finish it. This large 
majority are our target market.
Determined to deliver  
Improving health is a 
major opportunity
$190m 
Our NIOX
®
 products are market leaders. 
They’re used to improve the diagnosis and 
management of asthma. And they’re currently 
targeted at specialists. In the US alone, this 
opportunity is about $190 million. 
Significant numbers of people are affected 
by cat allergy. In Europe and the US, 
between 80 million and 90 million people 
are sensitised to the cat proteins that  
are responsible for allergic reactions. 
Current immunotherapies have inherent 
problems. Requiring lengthy treatment,  
and with adverse reactions common, 
patient compliance is poor.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 08 Our products have significant market 
opportunities
Our business is based on three separate franchises, built on three 
different technologies. Each has a significant market opportunity. 
Each is sufficient to drive our success. And we’re determined to 
deliver across all three. 
We already sell our NIOX
®
 products direct to specialists in the US 
and Germany, and our partners market them elsewhere. NIOX
®
 is 
the market leader, and the only product of its type available across 
major markets. This gives us a huge advantage. In the US alone, 
we’re targeting a specialist opportunity of $190 million.
Our allergy treatments also have a significant commercial potential. 
Third-party research suggests our cat allergy treatment has the 
potential to achieve peak sales of over $500 million, and our other 
products have major market opportunities. 
Our asthma treatments are designed to substitute for existing 
products. This requires little promotion, with the prospect of 
significant sales, and our two lead candidates target existing 
revenues of approximately $1.6 billion. Our COPD treatments  
also target major markets, which are predicted to reach over  
$11 billion per year. 
 
An allergy revolution
We use our unique ToleroMune
®
 technology to develop next-
generation allergy therapies with the potential to revolutionise 
current treatment. In contrast with existing therapies, we design  
our products to deliver strong and long-lasting treatment effects 
with a positive safety profile from just a short course of therapy.  
And we’re making good progress. Our most advanced product  
is in the final phase of testing, and we’re expecting to deliver the 
results in the coming months.
NIOX
®
 delivery
NIOX
®
 is unique. It delivers highly accurate measurements of 
nitric oxide in asthma patients’ breath in an easy-to-use device. 
Physicians can use this to improve asthma management, and  
the approach is recommended by leading asthma societies.  
Our improved next-generation product is now available in many 
markets, and we are starting to deliver on NIOX
®
’s potential.  
Sales grew more than 30% last year. 
Delivering respiratory medicines
We are developing our asthma and COPD medicines in easy-to-use 
pMDI inhalers. These are well established with patients and have 
been used for decades. They also give us an important opportunity. 
Other companies are developing asthma substitute products, 
but few in pMDIs, and this limited competition boosts our target 
opportunity. We are making good progress. Our lead product is now 
approved in the UK, and we are advancing others too. Our COPD 
treatments are also progressing. They have significant benefits over 
existing treatments, and both are in clinical development. 
$1.6bn
Asthma is extremely 
common, and inhaled 
treatments are well 
established. We’re 
developing products  
to substitute for current 
therapies. Our two lead 
candidates target existing 
sales of approximately  
$1.6 billion. 
$8bn 
COPD gets worse over time. But treatment 
can be complicated, with patients using 
different inhalers to take different medicines. 
We’re developing a triple combination therapy 
that combines three key treatments in one.  
It targets a predicted $8 billion future market. 
$500m 
US specialists on average 
see more than 30 new cat 
allergy patients each month. 
Treating just five of these 
with our new therapy could 
achieve sales of over $500 
million per year.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 09 Delivery time  
We’re delivering  
on our potential
We’ve had a year of achievements across 
each area of our business. And 2016 
promises to be exciting. We’re planning  
a year of delivery. 
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 10 NIOX
®
 technology for asthma 
management
Allergic airway inflammation is the 
major underlying cause of asthma, 
and patients generally have higher 
than normal levels of nitric oxide 
in their exhaled breath. Our unique 
NIOX
®
 technology measures its 
concentration, and clinicians can 
use this to evaluate patients’ allergic 
airway inflammation and improve 
asthma management. 
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 11 Q2 2016 
Our lead allergy treatment is on 
track. The last phase III subject 
has completed treatment. We’re on 
schedule to deliver results in Q2 2016. 
Delivery time  
We’re delivering  
on our potential
2 marketed 
products
 
We sell NIOX
®
 direct in the US and Germany. 
Partners sell it elsewhere. Recently, we launched 
the next generation NIOX
®
 in China. And we’re 
planning to go direct in additional EU countries. 
Our NIOX
®
 products are the only point-
of-care devices available across major 
markets for the measurement of FeNO to 
assist asthma diagnosis and management. 
We are advancing our clinical portfolio 
with clinical studies ongoing in each of our 
allergy, respiratory and NIOX
®
 portfolios.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 12 Delivering our strategy
Our strategy is clear. We aim to build a world-class and self-
sustaining biopharmaceutical company, with novel products 
sold direct in key markets and a broad and balanced 
pipeline. During the last year, we accelerated our progress 
towards this goal. We advanced our allergy treatments, and 
completed two acquisitions that gave us marketed products, 
direct sales capabilities and an enlarged portfolio. 
Delivering our pipeline
Our allergy pipeline has great potential, and during 2015  
we continued to move our treatments towards the market. 
We dosed the last patient in our cat allergy phase III study 
and remain on track to deliver results in Q2 this year.  
We completed recruitment into our house dust mite allergy 
study, moved our birch allergy treatment into the clinic  
and are planning large-scale field studies of our grass  
and ragweed allergy therapies. 
Marketing our products
In June, we acquired two marketed products and teams 
to sell them to allergy and asthma specialists in the US 
and Germany. We then expanded this capability, boosting 
the sales force and adding marketing, market access and 
reimbursement expertise. We intend to extend this further  
in 2016, in our existing countries and further afield too.  
We then plan to use these capabilities to launch our cat 
allergy treatment once approved. Preparing early lets us 
target faster uptake and higher sales. 
Broadening our pipeline
At the same time we broadened our pipeline. As well as 
progressing our earlier-stage allergy products, we acquired 
a portfolio of asthma and COPD treatments. The lead asthma 
therapy is now approved, and we moved a novel combination 
treatment for COPD into clinical development. We now have  
a broad and balanced portfolio, with marketed products, 
near-term allergy and asthma treatments and longer-term 
COPD therapies. 
6 
clinical 
studies
We’ve got a broad pipeline  
of 12 allergy, asthma and 
COPD treatments. And we 
plan to extend our NIOX
®
 
indication. We’ve got six 
clinical studies underway and 
several others planned. 
£203.8m
We raised £275 million to fund our 
acquisitions. Our balance sheet remains 
strong. With £203.8 million of cash at  
the end of 2015, we’re funded to deliver. 
UK 
approval
Our lead asthma treatment is now 
approved. This was achieved with 
in vitro data only. Reaching this 
hurdle is highly challenging, and 
we believe we’re the first to do so. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 13 Delivering a broad and balanced portfolio
We’re making good progress developing our 
innovative allergy immunotherapies. We’ve 
broadened our pipeline with asthma treatment 
substitutes and COPD therapies. And we’re 
pursuing new indications for NIOX
®
. 
Research Preclinical Phase I Product
NIOX MINO
®
Seretide
®
 substitute
Ragweed SPIRE
Serevent
®
 substitute*
Birch SPIRE
Triple combination
Flovent
®
 substitute*
LAMA novel formulation
Flixotide
®
 substitute*
Grass SPIRE
NIOX VERO
®
Cat SPIRE
House dust mite SPIRE
*  P a r t n er ed  
Pipeline does not include earlier stage programmes: Japanese cedar SPIRE, Alternaria SPIRE, NIOX
®
 home device
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 14 Phase II Filed/approved Phase III/Substitute Marketed
*  P a r t n er ed  
Pipeline does not include earlier stage programmes: Japanese cedar SPIRE, Alternaria SPIRE, NIOX
®
 home device
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 15 Chairman’s statement
The 	 las t 	 year 	 has 	 be en 	 a 	 p er iod 	 of 	 signi ficant 	 p rogr es s 	 for	
Circas sia. 	 W e 	 ad vanc ed 	 ou r 	 pip eline 	 of 	 inno vat iv e 	 aller g y	
t her apies 	 and 	 t he 	 succ es s ful 	 ac quisit ions 	 of 	 Aerocr ine 	 and	
Prosoni x 	 acc eler ated 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y 	 to 	 commercialise 	 t hese	
p roduc t s 	 ind ep end ent l y 	 in 	 k e y 	 mark et s, 	 while 	 also 	 building	
a 	 broad 	 and 	 balanc ed 	 pip eline 	 of 	 s p ecialt y 	 t r eat ment s . 	 Wit h	
a 	 succ es s ful 	 £ 27 5 	 million 	 fu nd r aising 	 completed 	 to 	 su p por t	
t he 	 ac quisit ions, 	 t he 	 Company 	 r emains 	 w ell 	 fu nd ed 	 to 	 deliv er	
acros s 	 t he 	 ne wl y- e x pand ed 	 bu sines s .	
Thr e e 	 fr anchises; 	 one 	 common 	 infr as t r uc tu r e
Our strategy to transform Circassia into a self-sustaining leader in 
the specialty pharmaceutical sector took a significant leap forward in 
2015. The business now has three separate specialty franchises based 
on three innovative technologies, which come together under a single 
therapeutic focus and leverage a common commercial ‘backbone’ 
and out-sourced business model. While the Company remains centred 
around its revolutionary allergy products, it is also building significant 
additional value from its broader asthma and respiratory portfolio that 
can leverage its newly-established commercial infrastructure. 
These acquisitions represent an important strategic milestone 
for Circassia. Crucially, they ‘leapfrog’ the requirement to build a 
commercial presence from scratch prior to our first product approval, 
thereby avoiding the major challenges associated with recruiting and 
retaining talented sales teams before they have products to sell and 
having to commit resources to major infrastructure ramp up before a 
revenue stream is established. 
The acquisition of Aerocrine brings commercial operations in the 
world’s two largest allergy markets, the US and Germany, and a 
network of distribution channels in other territories that we can  
bring in-house to expand our capabilities. Most importantly, the  
field forces already target our future core customers: the allergy 
specialists who will be responsible for the success of our 
immunotherapy portfolio. This established infrastructure provides  
an ideal foundation for our ambitious growth plans, while also  
providing an immediate and growing revenue stream from sales  
of its market-leading NIOX
®
 products. 
Circassia’s commercial progress was complemented by the concurrent 
acquisition of Prosonix, which broadens and balances our pipeline. 
Its products fall into the same respiratory focus as Aerocrine, with a 
number of near-term asthma treatments. These are complemented  
by longer-term novel formulations targeting chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). These products can leverage our  
common commercial infrastructure, with late-stage asthma substitute 
treatments not requiring significant promotion but using our supply 
chain, reimbursement, compliance and analytic capabilities, while  
the success of the longer-term novel formulations can be greatly 
enhanced by directly targeting key opinion leaders and specialists. 
Buildi ng 	 mom e nt um
Since completing these acquisitions in June 2015, we have made 
good progress advancing all three franchises of our business. In our 
immunotherapy franchise we are on track to complete our cat allergy 
pivotal trial in the near future and to initiate a registration study in grass 
allergy. Our commercial progress is underlined by solid sales growth 
in our acquired NIOX
®
 franchise, while our most advanced acquired 
asthma treatment has now been approved by the UK regulator.  
Overall, we have continued the momentum created by our acquisitions, 
and have ambitious plans to build on this in the coming year. 
P osit iv e 	 ou t look
Circassia’s future looks highly encouraging as our ambition to bring 
our portfolio to market is increasingly matched by our capability to 
do so. In the near-term, we look forward to completing our cat allergy 
phase III study, while expanding our commercialisation capabilities in 
preparation for its launch. With the allergy sector continuing to attract 
attention, and current therapies that target the underlying disease 
remaining highly inadequate, we are well placed to exploit  
the commercial potential of this previously poorly-served market. 
Looking to the longer-term, the future is equally positive. With 
three franchises, any of which has the potential to drive long-term 
success, we have the prospect of ongoing substantial sales growth, 
complemented by three potential product filings by the end of next year 
and eight potential product launches by the end of 2021. With a robust 
balance sheet to support our ambitious plans, we are well placed to 
achieve our goal of becoming a self-sustaining, world-class specialty 
biopharmaceutical business. 
Dr Francesco Granata
Chairman
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 16 Operational and financial highlights
A ller g y 	 clinical 	 p rogr ammes 	 p rogr es sing
― Cat allergy phase III pivotal study (CATALYST) completed  
last patient dosing; results expected Q2 2016; pre-BLA meeting 
scheduled with FDA
― Cat allergy two-to-five year follow-up (CP007A) continuing 
enrolment; 424 subjects enrolled to date
― Cat allergy paediatric safety study (CP009) completed
― Grass allergy registration study on track to start H1 2016
― House dust mite allergy phase IIb field study (TH005)  
completed enrolment (n=715 subjects)
― Ragweed allergy phase IIb follow-up (TR006A) completed; 
treatment effect demonstrated for all regimens with 21% 
improvement in change in combined score across season  
for highest dose 
― Ragweed allergy phase IIb dose-ranging study on track  
to begin recruitment in 2016 season
― Birch allergy first-in-human clinical study fully recruited and 
dosing complete; data expected Q3 2016
As t hma 	 management 	 p roduc t s 	 achie v ed 	 s t rong 	 gro w t h
― NIOX
®
 sales increased 32% to £10.3 million since acquisition 
(same period 2014 at CER: £7 .8 million)
1
― NIOX VERO
®
 launched in China in August
― Study initiated to extend US indication to children aged  
four to six years old 
Res pir ator y 	 p rogr ammes 	 ad vancing 	 wit h 	 lead 	 p roduc t	
approved
― Lead asthma product targeting substitution of GSK’s Flixotide
®
 
pMDI approved in UK under European Decentralised Procedure
― Seretide
®
 pMDI substitute targeting filing 2017
― Triple combination first-in-human clinical study on track to report 
Q2 2016
Commercialisat ion 	 on 	 t r ack 	 wit h 	 commercial 	 or ganisat ion	
increased to over 100
― Direct specialty sales established in US and Germany; broad 
distribution network in additional territories
― Significant US sales team expansion; increased by 65%  
to 48 currently with further doubling planned by Q1 2017
― Expansion of European direct sales presence into key European 
markets underway
― Regional Medical Affairs team established in US and key 
European markets
― Market access, supply chain, marketing and sales operations 
teams in place
― New global NIOX
®
 promotional campaign launched
― Cat allergy market research completed; proposed brand  
and scientific names finalised
Fi na nc ia l 	 h ig h lig ht s
― Placing and Open Offer successfully completed in June  
raising £275.0 million (gross) to fund strategic acquisitions
― Robust revenue growth since acquisitions to £10.8 million  
(2014: £nil)
― Research and development investment increased to  
£46.8 million (2014: £38.6 million)
― Loss for the year £50.0 million (2014: £35.1 million)
― Funded to deliver portfolio; £203.8 million cash
2
 at  
31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: £186.6 million)
1  
Acquisition completed 18 June; revenues recorded by Circassia  
19 June – 31 December
2  
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits; £30 million paid to Prosonix  
ex-shareholders January 2016 following lead product approval
Q2 2016
We are on track to deliver  
phase III cat allergy treatment  
results in Q2 2016.
32%  
increase
NIOX
®
 sales increased by 32%  
compared with the same period in 2014.
UK  
approval
The MHRA approved our fluticasone  
propionate pMDI in H2 2015.
£203.8m
With a strong balance sheet we  
are funded to deliver our pipeline.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 17 Chief Executive’s review
Circas sia 	 is 	 in 	 a 	 p er iod 	 of 	 e x cit ing 	 t r ans for mat ion 	 as 	 w e	
acc eler ate 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y 	 to 	 become 	 a 	 sel f -su s t aining 	 s p ecialt y	
biop har mac eu t ical 	 company . 	 Ou r 	 inno vat iv e 	 aller g y 	 t r eat ment s	
cont inu e 	 to 	 mak e 	 good 	 p rogr es s, 	 and 	 w e 	 r emain 	 on 	 t r ack 	 to	
d eliv er 	 ou r 	 p hase 	 III 	 r esult s 	 in 	 t he 	 coming 	 mont hs . 	 Du r ing 	 t he	
year , 	 w e 	 succ es s full y 	 completed 	 t w o 	 s t r ategic 	 ac quisit ions,	
which 	 giv e 	 u s 	 es t ablis hed 	 sp ecialt y 	 commercial 	 infr as t r uc tu r e	
t ar get ing 	 t he 	 k ey 	 cu s tomer s 	 for 	 ou r 	 ne x t - gener at ion 	 aller g y	
i m mu no t he r a pie s, 	 w h i le 	 a lso 	 s i g n i fic a n t l y	 br oad e n i n g 	 ou r	
pi p e li ne . 	 Impo r t a n t l y , 	 t he se 	 ac q uis i t io ns 	 ha v e 	 b e e n 	 v a l id ate d	
b y 	 t he 	 signi ficant 	 sales 	 gro w t h 	 of 	 ou r 	 ac quir ed 	 NIO X
®
 products 
and 	 t he 	 ap p ro val 	 of 	 ou r 	 lead 	 as t hma 	 t r eat ment .	
In 	 the 	 coming 	 y ear , 	 w e 	 intend 	 to 	 build 	 on 	 this 	 progress,	
e xpanding 	 our 	 commercial 	 presence 	 in 	 preparation 	 for 	 the	
launch 	 of 	 our 	 fir st 	 allergy 	 treatment , 	 while 	 fur ther 	 increasing	
sales 	 of 	 our 	 appro v ed 	 products. 	 W e 	 also 	 plan 	 to 	 deliv er 	 on 	 our	
wider 	 pipeline , 	 including 	 mo ving 	 our 	 grass 	 allergy 	 treatment	
into 	 a 	 registration 	 study . 	 As 	 a 	 result , 	 2 0 1 6 	 will 	 be 	 an 	 impor tant	
y ear 	 for 	 Circassia 	 as 	 w e 	 mo v e 	 to w ards 	 our 	 goal 	 of 	 building 	 a	
le a din g 	 s p e cialt y 	 bi o p ha r m a c e u t i c al 	 b u s ine s s .
Building 	 a 	 succ es s ful 	 s p ecialt y 	 biop har mac eu t ical 	 company
Our franchise of novel allergy immunotherapies offers the potential 
of significant improvements over currently available treatments, and 
in 2015 we made good progress in advancing our products towards 
the market. As part of our commercialisation strategy, we acquired 
Aerocrine with its established commercial infrastructure in the US and 
Germany that is already targeting the allergy / asthma specialists we 
need to educate on our novel allergy technology in order to generate 
faster and greater product uptake following launch. We are now well 
positioned in the world’s two most important allergy markets to identify 
key accounts, train our sales force and prepare the marketplace 
well in advance of product approval. The acquisition also brought 
market-leading NIOX
®
 asthma management products, providing us 
with a rapidly growing revenue stream and the opportunity to expand 
our direct presence into additional countries currently served by 
distributors. Concurrent with this acquisition, we purchased Prosonix, 
which broadened the asthma portfolio and brought novel formulations 
for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Consequently, we have made good progress in building a world-class 
specialty business that is centred on our pipeline of innovative allergy 
therapeutics, and complemented by a wider portfolio of products  
we can promote directly to specialists in North America and key 
European markets, or substitute directly. 
Deliv er ing 	 ou r 	 lead 	 aller g y 	 p roduc t
Throughout this period of transition, we have maintained the focus on 
our allergy portfolio, and our cat allergy programme remains on track 
to report pivotal phase III results in the next quarter. Our preparations 
to submit the data to the regulators in North America and Europe, 
dependent on the outcome, are also on schedule, with filings planned 
before the end of the year. In preparation for launch, we have entered a 
commercial manufacturing supply agreement with Bachem, completed 
market research in the US and key European markets and finalised 
our brand and proposed scientific names. We have also established 
Regional Medical Affairs expertise in our key territories to establish links 
throughout the allergy community, and complemented the commercial 
team with market access and reimbursement expertise. 
Ad vancing 	 ou r 	 bu sines s
During 2015, we made advances across our business, both before 
and following our acquisitions. Our four late-stage allergy treatments 
all moved forward, and we moved our birch allergy therapy into 
clinical development. In addition, we progressed our new asthma and 
COPD products, with the lead treatment receiving regulatory approval 
following a filing to the UK authorities in 2014, and our earlier-stage 
fixed dose triple combination product entered the clinic. We also 
achieved a number of successes in our new NIOX
®
 franchise, launching 
the next-generation VERO
®
 product in China and growing worldwide 
revenues by 32% during the six months of our ownership, compared 
with the same period the year before. As a result, we have transformed 
our Company into a business that now has a broad pipeline of allergy 
and respiratory products in development, six clinical trials underway, 
further studies planned for the coming months, the potential for eight 
product launches over the next six years and market-leading products 
sold around the world. 
S t rong 	 financial 	 posit ion
The last year has been a period of significant investment across our 
entire business, and in June we completed a successful £275 million 
Placing and Open Offer to fund our strategic acquisitions. During the 
year, we increased investment in our clinical programmes, commercial 
infrastructure and broader pipeline. With a significant number of clinical 
trials underway, and preparations ongoing for further large-scale field 
studies to begin in 2016, our R&D investment increased to £46.8 million  
in 2015, up from £38.6 million the previous year. To support the 
increased workload, we expanded our R&D organisation by 75%, in 
particular growing our clinical, regulatory, quality and CMC teams. In 
parallel, we increased our commercial investment to prepare for our first 
allergy product launch and to continue the sales growth of our marketed 
products, and we have increased the size of our US field force by 65%. 
Following these significant investments we remain well financed, with 
£203.8 million of cash at the end of 2015, and consequently we are 
funded to deliver our allergy products and wider pipeline. 
Encour agi ng 	 out look
Building on the achievements of 2015, the coming year promises to 
be an exciting period for Circassia. We look forward to the results from 
our lead allergy product’s pivotal trial, the initiation of our grass allergy 
treatment’s registration study and ongoing progress in our house dust 
mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar allergy programmes. Our 
allergy products have the potential to revolutionise treatment, and with 
our launch preparations well underway and market research indicating 
the potential for robust pricing it is clear we have a major commercial 
opportunity. This significant potential is also mirrored across our 
asthma management and respiratory businesses. We anticipate 
ongoing growth in the sales of our NIOX
®
 products, with revenues 
supporting the continued expansion of our commercial infrastructure. 
During the coming year, we also plan to move our Seretide
®
 pMDI 
substitute towards filing, and report clinical results from our fixed dose 
triple combination study. As a result, the outlook for 2016 is extremely 
encouraging, with good progress anticipated in each area of our newly-
enlarged business. 
Steven Harris
Chief Executive Officer
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 18 Business model
Circassia’s business follows a focused and efficient outsourced 
model. We retain key functions in-house; notably strategy, 
intellectual property, clinical study design, regulatory affairs and 
commercialisation, which we leverage across our allergy,  
NIOX
®
 and particle-engineered respiratory product franchises.  
To complement these in-house skills we draw on third-party 
experts, outsourcing non-core activities to well-established 
contract research organisations, manufacturers and commercial 
partners in territories beyond our core markets. 
Circassia 
d e v e l op m e nt
Circassia
Circassia 
co m m e r ci al i s a t i o n
Manufacturing 
partners
Co m m e r ci al	
c ol l a b o r a t io n s
Ou r 	 global 	 par t ner ship 	 net w ork
― InVentiv Health, Quintiles and 
Inflamax for clinical studies
― Adiga Life Sciences (joint venture 
with McMaster University) for epitope 
discovery and mechanistic clinical 
studies for allergy products
― Bachem and Polypeptide for 
pharmaceutical ingredient production 
for allergy products and Patheon for 
lyophilisation fill-finish
― NanoPass for supply and license 
of the MicronJet delivery device for 
allergy products
― Panasonic Healthcare for NIOX
®
 
device supply and ITG for sensor 
manufacture
― Various commercialisation partners 
for NIOX
®
 products outside the US 
and Germany
― Contract manufacturing 
organisations, including Sterling, for 
production of particle-engineered 
respiratory products and third-party 
manufacturers for pMDI fill-finish
― Mylan for commercialisation of 
lead particle-engineered asthma 
treatment in specific territories*
 *US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, 
the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, 
Switzerland, Turkey, Russian Federation and 
the Commonwealth of Independent States
Circassia  
d evelop me nt
― Study design
― Regulatory
― CMC
Circassia
― Strategy
― Technology
― IP
Manufacturing  
partners
― Clinical supplies
― Commercial  
production
Circassia 
c om m e rc ia lis at ion
― USA
― Key EU markets
De v el o p me n t	
partners
― CROs
― Pre-clinical 
testing
Co m m e r c i a l 	
partners
― License/partner 
in rest of world
D e v e l op m e nt	
partners
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 19 Strategy and progress against objectives
Strategic objectives
In territories outside our key markets, we intend to distribute our 
products through partners. We have an international network of 
distributors in place for our NIOX
®
 products, and have further potential 
partnership options for our allergy and respiratory products, including 
out-licensing commercialisation rights or collaborating with major 
pharmaceutical companies.
Build 	 a 	 broad 	 and 	 balanc ed 	 por t folio : 	 e x pand 	 ou r	 
d e v e lopm en t 	 pi p e li ne
We are developing a wide range of allergy, asthma and COPD 
products based on our innovative ToleroMune
®
, NIOX
®
 and particle-
engineering technologies. As a result, we have a portfolio of 12 
products currently in development, and have the opportunity to 
leverage our technologies to further expand our pipeline of candidates, 
targeting other common allergies and developing additional respiratory 
medicines. We also have the opportunity to further enhance our 
portfolio by in-licensing complementary product candidates and/ 
or technologies and seeking further acquisitions. Additionally, as our 
commercial infrastructure expansion advances, we should become 
increasingly well placed to attract collaborators seeking to partner 
the commercialisation of their specialty products or to add further 
specialty products of our own. 
Achieving our strategic objectives involves risks and uncertainties, 
which are detailed in the section entitled ‘Risks and risk management’ 
on pages 34 to 37 .
D e liv e r 	 t he 	 pi p e l i ne : 	 c omplete 	 t he 	 d e v e lo pm ent	 
of our innovative product candidates 
We are focused on completing the development of our next 
generation allergy treatments and our particle-engineered respiratory 
products. Our lead allergy therapy, targeting cat allergy, continues 
on track to report results from its phase III registration study in Q2 
2016. During 2016, we also plan to initiate the registration study for 
our grass allergy treatment, as well as progressing our house dust 
mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar allergy programmes. 
Additionally, we plan to complete the first clinical study of our fixed 
dose triple combination treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) and to advance our Seretide
®
 pMDI substitute 
product in preparation for planned UK filing in 2017. 
Mark et 	 no v el 	 p roduc t s: 	 ind ep end ent l y 	 commercialise	 
ou r 	 p roduc t s 	 in 	 Nor t h 	 A mer ica 	 and 	 major 	 EU 	 mark et s,	 
a nd 	 p a r t ne r 	 e lse w he r e
We have commercial infrastructure in place in the US and Germany 
promoting our NIOX
®
 asthma management products direct to allergy 
/ asthma specialists. We are significantly expanding this commercial 
presence to grow our current product sales and prepare for the 
launch of our first allergy product, once approved. In addition, we are 
planning to expand our commercial organisation into additional key 
European territories to sell our NIOX
®
 products directly to specialists 
and build market awareness in advance of the launch of our cat 
allergy therapy. We can also use this infrastructure to commercialise 
our asthma treatment substitute products, which do not require 
significant promotion but need regulatory, market access and supply 
chain support, as well as additional products we may bring into our 
pipeline through acquisition or in-licensing. 
Circassia’s strategy is to build a self-sustaining specialty 
biopharmaceutical company based on a broad portfolio of 
innovative therapies, commercialised independently in the  
US and key European markets and partnered in other 
regions, complemented by a strong and balanced pipeline  
of product candidates. 
Expanding our established commercial infrastructure  
will give us the opportunity to license or acquire additional 
complementary products that we can commercialise 
directly, as we move towards our goal of becoming a leading 
specialty biopharmaceutical business.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 20 Progress in 2015
During the year, we also made progress expanding our allergy 
pipeline. We completed the pre-clinical development of our birch 
allergy product and moved it into the clinic, as well as advancing our 
immunotherapy for Japanese cedar allergy. We also completed the 
planning for a clinical study with our novel NIOX
®
 technology, exploring 
the potential to expand its use to include the diagnosis of primary 
ciliary dyskinesia. 
P r og r e s s 	 d e liv e r i ng 	 t he 	 pi p e li ne
During 2015, we made advances across our newly-broadened allergy 
and respiratory portfolio. We completed the treatment of the last 
patient in our cat allergy phase III study, and remain on track to deliver 
the trial’s results in Q2 2016. We also completed a paediatric safety 
study to support a European Marketing Authorisation Application.  
At the end of the year, we finished recruitment into our house dust 
mite allergy large-scale field study, completed a two-season follow-up 
of our ragweed allergy product and progressed our plans to begin 
the registration study for our grass allergy immunotherapy. In our 
respiratory portfolio, our lead asthma product, which is partnered with 
Mylan, has now received approval from the UK regulatory authority, 
and we moved our novel fixed dose triple combination treatment for 
COPD into its first clinical study. 
Du r ing 	 2 0 1 5, 	 w e 	 mad e 	 good 	 p rogr es s 	 implement ing 	 all 	 t hr e e	
ar eas 	 of 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y . 	 W e 	 ad vanc ed 	 t he 	 clinical 	 d e v elopment	
p rogr ammes 	 for 	 ou r 	 lead 	 aller g y 	 t r eat ment s, 	 and 	 mo v ed 	 an	
ad dit ional 	 p roduc t 	 into 	 t he 	 clinic. 	 W e 	 complemented 	 t his	
p rogr es s 	 wit h 	 t he 	 complet ion 	 of 	 t w o 	 s t r ategic 	 ac quisit ions	 
t hat 	 brought 	 u s 	 es t ablis hed 	 commercial 	 infr as t r uc tu r e	
t ar get ing 	 aller g y 	 / 	 as t hma 	 sp ecialis t s 	 in 	 t he 	 w or ld’ s 	 t w o	 
lar ges t 	 aller g y 	 mark et s, 	 an 	 inter nat ional 	 net w ork 	 of	
dis t r ibu tor s, 	 mark eted 	 s p ecialt y 	 p roduc t s 	 and 	 a 	 broad	 
por t folio 	 of 	 p roduc t 	 candid ates .	
Progr es s 	 mark et ing 	 no v el 	 p roduc t s	
During 2015, we dramatically accelerated our strategy to promote 
our products directly to specialists in our target territories through 
the acquisition of Aerocrine. This brought us established commercial 
infrastructure in the key US and German markets and market-leading 
NIOX
®
 asthma management products. Following the completion of the 
acquisition in June 2015, we significantly expanded the commercial 
team, increased the US field force and began the process of 
establishing direct sales capabilities in additional European markets. 
This gives us the platform on which to prepare the market for the 
launch of our allergy products while growing the existing sales of  
our NIOX
®
 products. 
Progr es s 	 building 	 a 	 broad 	 and 	 balanc ed 	 por t folio
In June 2015, we completed the acquisition of Prosonix, accelerating 
our strategy to build a broad and balanced portfolio. This brought a 
pipeline of respiratory products based on novel particle-engineering 
technology, which complements our existing innovative allergy 
immunotherapies. The products include near-term asthma treatments, 
targeting direct substitution of currently marketed therapies, and 
longer-term novel formulations for the treatment of COPD. 
Deliver 	 the 	 pipeline
Market 	 novel 	 pr oducts
Build 	 br oad 	 and	 
balanced 	 portfolio
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 21 Strategic review
Du r ing 	 2 0 1 5, 	 w e 	 signi ficant l y 	 acc eler ated 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y 	 to 	 build	
a 	 w or ld - c la s s, 	 se l f -s u s t a i n i n g 	 s p e c ia l t y 	 b io p ha r m ac eu t ic a l	
bu sines s . 	 In 	 Ju ne, 	 wit h 	 ou r 	 aller g y 	 por t folio 	 cont inuing 	 to 	 mak e	
p rogr es s 	 and 	 ou r 	 lead 	 p rogr amme 	 on 	 t r ack 	 to 	 d eliv er 	 p hase	
III 	 r esult s 	 in 	 t he 	 coming 	 year , 	 w e 	 ac quir ed 	 Aerocr ine 	 and 	 it s	
m a rk et -l e ad i ng 	 NI O X
®
	 as t hma 	 management 	 p roduc t s 	 and	
e s t a b lis he d 	 c om m e rc ia l is at io n 	 i nf r a s t r u c t u r e 	 t hat 	 w a s 	 a l r ead y	
t ar get ing 	 t he 	 k ey 	 aller g y 	 / 	 as t hma 	 s p ecialis t s 	 who 	 will 	 d r iv e 	 t he	
succ es s ful 	 lau nch 	 of 	 ou r 	 fir s t 	 aller g y 	 t r eat ment . 	 A t 	 t he 	 same	
t ime, 	 t he 	 ac quisit ion 	 of 	 Prosoni x 	 broad ened 	 t he 	 Company’ s	
pip eline 	 wit h 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 as t hma 	 and 	 chronic 	 obs t r uc t iv e	
pulmonar y 	 disease 	 p roduc t s, 	 which 	 offer 	 t he 	 p ros p ec t 	 of	 
near - ter m 	 r e v enu es 	 and 	 longer - ter m 	 high 	 valu e 	 no v el	
for mulat ions . 	 W e 	 also 	 completed 	 a 	 succ es s ful 	 £ 27 5 	 million	
Placing 	 and 	 O p en 	 O ffer 	 to 	 fu nd 	 t he 	 ac quisit ions, 	 and 	 ensu r e	 
t he 	 Company 	 r emains 	 fu nd ed 	 to 	 d eliv er 	 it s 	 pip eline.	
 
 
Progr es sing 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y
Following the completion of the acquisitions, Circassia has made good 
progress across all three areas of its expanded business. Our allergy 
portfolio has continued to advance in the clinic, we have substantially 
increased NIOX
®
 sales and the approval of the lead asthma treatment 
validates the acquisition strategy. As a result, our business is well 
positioned, combining marketed products, an exciting pipeline of  
next generation treatments and a strong balance sheet. 
A ller g y 	 por t folio 	 clinical 	 p rogr es s
Cat 	 aller g y
Circassia’s lead allergy programme continues on track to deliver  
phase III results in Q2 2016. The pivotal registration study (CATALYST) 
completed dosing of the final subject in the second half of 2015, and 
the primary endpoint will measure the combined improvement in 
allergy symptoms and rescue medication use one year after treatment 
initiation. A total of 1,409 cat allergy sufferers were randomised into  
the study, exceeding the target by 19%, and the study is fully powered 
for the primary efficacy analysis. As part of its preparations to ensure 
efficient regulatory filings following receipt of the phase III data, 
Circassia has scheduled a pre-BLA meeting with the FDA and also 
intends to meet with the European Medicines Agency prior  
to submission. 
CATALYST’s long-term follow-up (CP007A) also continues to make 
progress, with 424 subjects enrolled after completing the phase III 
study. The two-to-five year extension study is designed to confirm 
the ongoing efficacy of the cat allergy immunotherapy without further 
dosing, and offers the potential to extend the product’s licence 
following initial approval. 
During 2015, we undertook a number of activities to support  
licence applications for our lead allergy therapy. Preparation of  
the US and European regulatory filings is underway, and we have 
signed an agreement with long-term partner Bachem for commercial 
supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient. In addition, we 
completed a pilot paediatric safety study (CP009) at the end of the 
year, which was required by the regulators to progress the product 
filing in Europe. We recently received preliminary results from the study 
conducted in 15 children aged 5 to 11 years old, which will support 
our filing and allow us to move to a larger paediatric study following 
a Marketing Authorisation Application. In the US, we will finalise the 
Pediatric Study Plan following product approval in line with the usual 
regulatory process. 
G r as s 	 aller g y
Grass pollen is the most common cause of hay fever. Circassia’s 
grass allergy immunotherapy has previously demonstrated successful 
proof-of-concept in a phase IIb study, with symptom improvements 
maintained in subjects tested after each pollen season over three 
years, despite only a short course of treatment before the first season. 
In preparation for the clinical programme to support the product’s 
registration, the Company has now met with regulators in Europe 
and the US. Based on these discussions, the Company is initiating a 
single innovative adaptive-design registration study, which is designed 
to meet regulators’ requirements on both sides of the Atlantic. The 
first stage of the study will recruit approximately 400 subjects, who 
will receive a course of 8 x 6nmol doses over 14 weeks, or placebo. 
The subjects will report on their allergy symptoms and use of rescue 
medications during the pollen season, and following favourable results, 
the second stage will include a pre-recruited expansion cohort. This 
will permit sizing of the study based on first-stage performance to 
achieve appropriate powering, and currently the Company anticipates 
including a further 1,100 subjects. The study remains on track to begin 
in H1 2016, with results anticipated in H2 2018. 
£275m
We completed a successful £275 million 
Placing and Open Offer to fund strategic 
acquisitions.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 22 During 2015, we also completed a successful safety study in controlled 
asthmatics with grass allergy (TG004). The product was well tolerated 
and no safety concerns were identified. Consequently, this important 
patient group can be included in the planned registration study. 
Hou se 	 du s t 	 mite 	 aller g y
House dust mite proteins are the most common cause of allergy in 
Europe and the USA. Circassia’s house dust mite allergy treatment 
achieved successful results in an earlier proof-of-concept phase 
IIb study, with subjects receiving 4 x 12nmol doses over 12 weeks 
experiencing a significant (p=0.02) reduction in symptoms when 
challenged one year after the start of treatment. In long-term follow-up, 
symptom improvements were maintained at the same level in patients 
assessed two years after the start of treatment, despite receiving no 
further dosing. 
Following these encouraging results, we started a large field study 
(TH005) comparing the best performing regimen from the proof of 
concept study (4 x 12nmol) with an 8 x 12nmol regimen, and a higher 
dose. The study is ongoing in North America, Europe and South 
Africa, and at the end of 2015 we closed recruitment. As a result, 
randomisation into the study is now complete with 715 subjects 
enrolled, an increase of 8% over the initial target of 660. The study 
will assess the combined improvement in symptoms and rescue 
medication use one year after the start of treatment, and results are 
expected in H1 2017 . 
Ragw e ed 	 aller g y
Ragweed allergy is highly prevalent in North America where it is a 
common cause of hay fever. In Europe, the allergy is less common, but 
is affecting a growing proportion of the population. In 2015, Circassia 
conducted a follow-up field study (TR006A) of its ragweed allergy 
immunotherapy in subjects who completed the TR006 phase IIb trial 
in 2014. The follow-up study assessed the subjects’ allergy symptoms 
and use of rescue medication two pollen seasons after the completion 
of treatment, despite no further dosing. The results show that all of the 
regimens demonstrated a treatment effect at the peak and across the 
whole season. 
These recent results follow a successful 2011 proof-of-concept study, 
which indicated that higher doses of the ragweed allergy treatment 
have a greater clinical effect in an environmental exposure chamber 
challenge. In this study, the highest dose achieved significant 
improvements in subjects with more severe symptoms (p=0.04). 
Similarly, the TR006 study results showed evidence of a dose 
response, with the higher dose regimen achieving the best reduction 
in symptoms, despite a marked placebo effect. TR006 also assessed 
the combined improvement in symptoms and rescue medication use 
during a natural ragweed pollen season, and also showed that the 
highest dose had the greatest treatment effect. These conclusions are 
now supported by the TR006A follow-up study, in which the highest 
dose had the greatest effect in the field across the pollen season, 
achieving an improvement in the change in combined symptom and 
rescue medication score of 21% vs placebo. 
Consequently, we are now planning to initiate a phase IIb dose-ranging 
study to identify the optimal dose to progress to phase III. The study 
will compare the best performing dose regimen from the earlier trials 
(8 x 12nmol) and a higher dose regimen (8 x 24nmol) in approximately 
450 subjects. The study is on track to begin in 2016, with dosing 
planned for completion before the 2017 pollen season, and results 
anticipated in H1 2018. 
Allergy is the medical condition with the  
greatest impact on US work productivity
H1 2016
We are on track to initiate our grass allergy 
treatment registration study in H1 2016.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 23 Strategic review continued
Birch 	 and 	 Japanese 	 c ed ar 	 aller gies
Tree pollens are a common cause of allergy and pollen released by 
birch and Japanese cedar can cause allergic reactions. Circassia is 
developing immunotherapies for these allergies and both programmes 
made good progress in 2015. 
In the second half of the year, we moved our birch allergy treatment 
into clinical development, with a first-in-human study beginning in July. 
The study is now fully recruited (n=64) with dosing complete, and the 
trial is anticipated to report in the second half of the year following the 
end of the natural birch pollen season. Our treatment for Japanese 
cedar allergy also advanced during the year. The programme has 
completed pre-clinical development, and we have recently agreed  
the design of a first-in-human clinical study with the Japanese 
regulatory authorities. 
NIOX
®
	 c om m e r ci al 	 p r ogr e s s
S t rong 	 sales 	 gro w t h
Following the acquisition of Aerocrine in June 2015, we have sold its 
unique NIOX
®
 asthma products direct to allergy / asthma specialists in 
the US and Germany and through a network of partners internationally. 
NIOX MINO
®
 and the next-generation NIOX VERO
®
 are used to 
improve asthma diagnosis and management through monitoring of 
patients’ fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) and are the only point-
of-care devices available across major markets. FeNO measurement is 
recommended by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
(NICE) to help guide asthma diagnosis and management and is 
included in the American Thoracic Society treatment guidelines, which 
are endorsed by the leading allergy / asthma professional societies. 
During 2015, the NIOX
®
 franchise made impressive progress, with 
revenues growing strongly, and since our acquisition of the products  
in June sales have increased by 32% to £10.3 million at constant 
exchange rates compared with the same period the year before.
Chinese 	 ap p ro val 	 and 	 lau nch
Asia is an important market for NIOX
®
, and in China the products  
are distributed by a network of local partners managed by Circassia’s 
team of sales managers based in Beijing. During the summer, the 
China Food and Drug Administration issued regulatory clearance 
for the next-generation NIOX
®
 product, NIOX VERO
®
, and at the 
end of August our Chinese commercial team held a launch meeting 
in Guangzhou. The launch included a scientific meeting chaired by 
asthma expert Professor Jiang-Tao Lin and attended by over 100 
opinion leaders, and a separate session for distributors in preparation 
for the roll out of NIOX VERO
®
 across China. 
L abel 	 e x tension 	 s tu dies
During the year, we have reviewed development opportunities to 
continue the growth of the NIOX
®
 franchise and subsequently planned 
two clinical studies to support label extensions. 
The first study, which is currently ongoing, is designed to support the 
use of NIOX VERO
®
 in children aged four to six years old in the US. 
Currently, the product is indicated for use in those aged four years and 
older in Europe, with the option of using a six second test for children 
unable to perform the normal ten second mode. However, the US 
approval does not include children aged under seven years or the  
use of the six second test. The study, which will include approximately 
100 subjects, is designed to demonstrate the accuracy of the shorter 
test mode in children aged four, five and six years old. The results are 
anticipated in H2 2016. 
NIOX VERO
®
 offers important improvements 
over the previous generation product
Birch  
allergy
 
We moved our birch allergy  
treatment into the clinic  
in July 2015.
Chinese 
launch
We launched NIOX VERO
®
 in China 
in August 2015.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 24 The second study, which is currently awaiting local ethics approval 
before initiation, is designed to explore the potential to extend NIOX 
VERO
®
’s licence to include the diagnosis of primary ciliary dyskinesia. 
This disorder, which affects approximately 20,000 people in the US, 
is characterised by chronic respiratory tract infections, as well as 
abnormally positioned internal organs and infertility, and sufferers 
have year-round nasal congestion and a chronic cough. Diagnosis 
can be complex and include the use of genetic testing and electron 
microscopy of airway cilia samples. As a result, there is an opportunity 
for more straightforward diagnostic methods. Consequently, we have 
adapted our easy-to-use NIOX
®
 device to sample nasal nitric oxide and 
designed the clinical study to determine the threshold for the diagnosis 
of primary ciliary dyskinesia. The study, which we plan to conduct 
in the US and Europe, will include approximately 50 subjects with 
confirmed primary ciliary dyskinesia and 100 healthy controls. 
Res pir ator y 	 por t folio 	 p rogr es s
Flix ot i de
®
	 pMDI 	 su bs t itu te 	 ap p ro val
At the end of 2015, the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products 
Regulatory Agency (MHRA) confirmed the successful outcome of 
the European Decentralised Procedure for Circassia’s fluticasone 
propionate pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) for the 
prophylactic treatment of asthma. The product, which is part of a 
previously announced global licensing agreement with Mylan, targets 
direct substitution of GlaxoSmithKline’s Flixotide
®
 pMDI. The MHRA 
has now issued the Marketing Authorisation for the product, which 
covers all three strengths in which the originator is available (50µg, 
125µg and 250µg). 
Our fluticasone propionate pMDI was developed under the European 
regulatory guidelines on orally inhaled products that permit approval 
based on an in vitro demonstration of equivalence only, without 
the need for clinical data. This regulatory standard is extremely 
challenging to achieve, and we believe this is the first time it has been 
accomplished for a range of product strengths. This achievement is an 
important validation of our proprietary particle-engineering technology, 
which is designed to overcome the production and formulation 
challenges associated with traditionally produced respiratory 
pharmaceuticals. 
Seretide
®
	 su b s t i tu te 	 fil i n g
We are also using our particle-engineering technology to develop 
a wholly-owned fluticasone propionate / salmeterol xinafoate 
combination asthma treatment targeting direct substitution of GSK’s 
Seretide
® 
/ Advair
®
 pMDI. The market opportunity for the product is 
significant, with originator sales accounting for approximately  
$1.5 billion in 2015. 
As a result, we progressed our in vitro development programme 
alongside parallel pharmacokinetic studies, which were set up in  
South Africa prior to the product’s acquisition, to inform the clinical 
work required for a US filing and act as a contingency measure if 
required for a European submission. Recently, we received headline 
results from these studies, which indicate that the fluticasone 
component of the product is similar to the originator. The results 
also show that the total absorption of salmeterol was similar to the 
originator, although the peak plasma concentration did not match. 
These data suggest the formulation may contain insufficient fine 
particles of salmeterol. As a result, we have initiated a corrective 
plan to optimise the product and we anticipate the initial Marketing 
Authorisation Application will be filed in the second half of 2017. 
Our fluticasone propionate pMDI targeting direct substitution of Flixotide
®
 
pMDI is approved in the UK for the prophylactic treatment of asthma
‘
‘
We have started a study 
to support the use of NIOX 
VERO
®
 in children aged four 
to six years old in the US
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 25 Strategic review continued
T r iple 	 fi x ed 	 dose 	 combinat ion 	 clinical 	 p rogr amme
Our ‘triple’ combination therapy for moderate-to-severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) contains an inhaled 
corticosteroid, long-acting beta agonist and long-acting muscarinic 
antagonist delivered via an easy-to-use pMDI. Currently, there are no 
triple therapies available, and consequently COPD patients require 
at least two devices with potentially different operating procedures 
and inhalation techniques to receive the equivalent medication. As 
a result, the ‘triple’ market has significant commercial potential, with 
independent forecasts predicting sales of nearly $8 billion in 2025. 
In September 2015, we completed pre-clinical development for our 
novel ‘triple’ formulation and progressed the product into the clinic. 
The first-in-human clinical study is ongoing in Berlin, and the initial 
single-dose component in 20 healthy subjects is now complete.  
The results show that the product was well tolerated with a favourable 
safety profile and therefore the local ethics committee has approved 
the initiation of the repeat dose component, which is now fully 
recruited and nearing completion. Results from the full study are 
anticipated in the coming months. 
Commercial 	 s t r ateg y 	 p rogr es s
Com m e rc ia l 	 i nf r a s t r uc t u r e 	 ac c e le r at ion
During the first half of 2015, we made significant progress in expanding 
our nascent commercialisation capabilities in preparation for the 
launch of our first allergy immunotherapy. Having appointed our  
Chief Commercial Officer and incorporated our US subsidiary in 2014, 
we appointed Regional Medical Affairs Directors in the United States 
and Europe and established analytics, marketing and distribution 
management capabilities during the first half of 2015. We also finalised 
and submitted brand names for our cat allergy immunotherapy to 
EU regulators and completed market research to inform our launch 
positioning. The regulators have now approved both brand names and 
we have finalised our proposed scientific name. 
During the second half of the year, we significantly accelerated 
our strategy to sell our products directly in key territories through 
the acquisition of Aerocrine. This brought established commercial 
infrastructure and sales forces targeting allergy / asthma specialists 
in the two most significant markets, the US and Germany. We have 
subsequently integrated the Aerocrine commercial organisation and 
significantly expanded our capabilities. This will enable us to continue 
the growth of NIOX
®
 sales and build broad market understanding of 
our revolutionary allergy technology ahead of our first product launch, 
in order to target accelerated uptake and higher peak sales. As a 
result, we have now increased our US sales force by 65% to 48, added 
managed markets expertise and at the end of the year we convened 
our first national sales conference. Our recruitment campaign had an 
extremely highly positive response, receiving over 2,000 applications 
for our 28 open positions. At the same time, we have expanded 
our marketing and market access team, who have completed the 
development and roll out of a compelling new NIOX
®
 promotional 
campaign, commissioned specialists to target increased product 
reimbursement in the US and undertaken further market research  
to support the launch of our cat allergy treatment. 
E x p a ndi ng 	 di r e c t 	 s a le s
In H2 2015, we initiated a territory review to determine the 
priority countries in which to establish direct sales organisations, 
complementing our growing presence in the US and Germany.  
These local teams will leverage our global marketing and supply chain 
capabilities and enable us to promote our NIOX
®
 products more widely 
in the short-term while also broadening links with opinion leaders, 
educating specialists and mapping key accounts well in advance of 
the anticipated launch our cat allergy immunotherapy. We have now 
concluded the initial review in key European territories where we have 
distributors in place and have begun discussions to establish a direct 
presence in France. We anticipate concluding the process during the 
coming year. 
We received over 2,000 applications to join our US sales force
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 26 Building 	 ou r 	 team
R & D 	 and 	 commercial 	 team 	 e x pansion
During the year, we continued to progress our allergy and respiratory 
product portfolio and explored options to expand the indications for 
our NIOX
®
 products. As a result, we have initiated a number of clinical 
studies and put in place preparations to begin others. To support this 
work, we have expanded our R&D organisation, recruiting additional 
experts to our clinical, regulatory, quality and CMC teams, and during 
2015 our R&D group increased by 75% to 77 employees. 
We also made good progress accelerating the build of our  
commercial organisation, expanding the team dramatically during 
2015. We now have in place the range of specialists required to 
commercialise products, including sales, medical affairs, compliance, 
distribution, regulatory and commercial administration. As a result, we 
now have over 100 employees in our commercial team, and much of 
our infrastructure can be leveraged across additional markets as we 
expand our direct sales territories. 
Board expansion
During 2015, we strengthened our Board, with Lota S Zoth and 
Marvin S Samson joining as Non-Executive Directors. Ms Zoth, who 
now chairs the Company’s Audit and Risk Committee, has significant 
financial experience gained in a number of global public companies, 
including as CFO at MedImmune. She also held senior positions at 
PSINet, Sodexho Marriott, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young. Mr Samson 
brings 50 years’ experience of the specialty pharmaceutical industry, 
having established and led a number of successful companies. He is 
currently Founder and CEO of Samson Medical Technologies LLC, and 
was previously CEO of several specialty pharmaceutical companies, 
as well as Group Vice President of Injectables at Teva. 
At the end of 2015, Paul R Edick informed the Company that he  
will retire from the Board on 17 May 2016 following several years 
as a Non-Executive Director. We thank Paul for his highly valuable 
contribution and strategic guidance during his time on the Board,  
and we look forward to his continued input over the coming months. 
I n tel l ec tu a l 	 p r o p e r t y 	 p r og r es s
During 2015, we continued to invest in our intellectual property to 
protect our ToleroMune
®
 technology and allergy product portfolio. This 
investment was extended during the second half of the year, to cover 
our acquired NIOX
®
 products and particle-engineering technology. 
We have successfully upheld two European patents relating to our 
cat allergy therapy, and we were also successful at a European 
Patent Office hearing in November at which the Opposition Division 
upheld the validity of a patent relating to our cat allergy treatment’s 
formulation. During 2015, we also created additional layers of 
protection, with 22 new patents relating to our allergy, NIOX
®
 and 
particle-engineering technologies granted in the US, Europe, China 
and Japan. Of these, four relate to our cat allergy treatment, three to 
our grass allergy therapy, three to our house dust mite allergy product 
and three to our ragweed allergy immunotherapy. In addition, we 
succeeded in extending a key US patent relating to our house dust 
mite allergy treatment by 21 months.
We have now increased 
our US sales force by 65% 
to 48, added managed 
markets expertise and at 
the end of the year we 
convened our first national 
sales conference
‘
‘
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 27 Strategic review continued
O u t l ook
Deliv er ing 	 ou r 	 aller g y 	 fr anchise
We anticipate that the coming year will be a period of significant 
progress across our entire business. In our allergy franchise, we  
plan to deliver results from our pivotal phase III cat allergy study,  
initiate the registration study for our grass allergy treatment and 
advance our house dust mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar 
allergy programmes. 
In parallel, we plan to continue the expansion of our commercial 
infrastructure in preparation for the launch of our revolutionary cat 
allergy therapy, targeting more rapid product penetration and higher 
peak sales. To achieve this, we plan to double our US field team to 
over 100 by Q1 2017 , building on the highly successful recruitment 
campaign we conducted in the second half of 2015. This will ensure 
the team is in place with the training, supply chain and commercial 
preparations complete well in advance of the product launch. We also 
plan to expand our European presence in 2016 to support the launch 
in our target markets, extending our direct presence to additional key 
territories and growing our field force in Europe. 
Progr es sing 	 ou r 	 NIO X
®
	 a nd 	 r e s pi r at or y 	 f r a nc h ises
In our NIOX
®
 franchise, we plan to leverage our expanding commercial 
infrastructure to continue sales growth, and expand our direct sales 
to further territories. With the next-generation NIOX VERO
®
 now 
launched in the key American, European, Japanese and Chinese 
markets, a strengthened market access team in place, a renewed 
focus on reimbursement and a refreshed promotional campaign 
underway, we are well placed to increase revenues in the coming 
years. The potential of NIOX
®
 was further highlighted recently by the 
launch of an implementation project by NICE that includes the use of 
FeNO in primary care. The project is designed to ensure the effective 
and efficient introduction of NICE’s forthcoming proposed asthma 
guideline, which recommends use of FeNO measurement in different 
diagnosis algorithms. Since the completion of our acquisition of NIOX
®
, 
the franchise’s revenues have grown by 32%, well ahead of the 18% 
CAGR achieved over the previous five years, and as a result of our 
ongoing investment we anticipate continued strong growth in 2016. 
In our respiratory portfolio, we also expect good progress in 2016.  
We plan to advance the development of our triple fixed dose 
combination COPD therapy and the first clinical trial is on track 
to complete in the coming months. We also plan to finalise the 
optimisation work for our Seretide
®
 pMDI substitute product and 
complete manufacture of the registration batches in the coming 
months, as we move toward filing in 2017. 
P osit ioned 	 to 	 d eliv er
During 2015, we dramatically accelerated our strategy to sell our 
products independently in key territories, build a broad and balanced 
portfolio complementing our innovative allergy immunotherapies 
and deliver our pipeline. As a result of this progress, we are now well 
positioned to bring our cat allergy product to market, and with sales 
teams in place selling to our core allergy / asthma specialist customers 
we are well placed to capture the full value of this revolutionary new 
therapy. With a strong balance sheet, we are also funded to deliver 
across our broader business, and anticipate reporting clinical results 
in our respiratory and NIOX
®
 franchises, as well as continuing robust 
sales growth of currently marketed products and investment in our 
commercial infrastructure. With the recent acceleration in our strategy, 
2016 is going to be an important year for Circassia as we continue to 
advance towards our ultimate objective of becoming a self-financing, 
world-class specialty biopharmaceutical company. 
Over 100
We plan to increase our US sales force 
to over 100 by Q1 2017.
During 2015, we 
dramatically accelerated 
our strategy to sell our 
products independently 
in key territories, build 
a broad and balanced 
portfolio complementing 
our innovative allergy 
immunotherapies and 
deliver our pipeline
‘
‘
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 28 Financial review
Financiall y , 	 t he 	 mos t 	 signi ficant 	 e v ent 	 du r ing 	 t he 	 las t 	 year	 
was 	 t he 	 complet ion 	 of 	 a 	 succ es s ful 	 £ 27 5 	 million 	 Placing 	 and	
O p en 	 O ffer 	 to 	 fu nd 	 t w o 	 ac quisit ions, 	 bot h 	 of 	 which 	 completed	
in 	 Ju ne. 	 The 	 ac quisit ion 	 of 	 Prosoni x 	 Limited 	 completed 	 on	 
1 5 	 Ju ne 	 2 0 1 5 	 and 	 Aerocr ine 	 AB 	 on 	 1 8 	 Ju ne 	 2 0 1 5 .	
The table on page 30 sets out the results for the Circassia Group, 
including the contribution from the acquired companies during  
the period of ownership and the acquisition costs.
Revenue
Revenue of £10.8 million, of which £10.3 million were sales of NIOX
®
 
from 19 June to 31 December, account for the Group’s turnover for  
the period (2014: £nil). These revenues include sales of NIOX VERO
®
  
and NIOX MINO
®
 for clinical use in the US, Europe and rest of world,  
and for use in pharmaceutical companies’ clinical studies. The 
remaining £0.5 million relates to licence fee and milestone revenues 
from the respiratory business.
G ros s 	 p rofit
Gross profit on NIOX
®
 sales was £6.1 million (2014: £nil), with a gross 
margin of 59%. This reflects the introduction of the NIOX VERO
®
 in  
the US with pricing options to drive conversion from the previous  
MINO model. 
S ales 	 and 	 mark et ing
During the period, sales and marketing expenditure was £13.5 million 
(2014: £nil). Of this, £8.3 million related to Aerocrine and the remainder 
reflects the build of Circassia’s commercial management in the US, and 
in particular recruitment of nine medical affairs specialists of whom six 
are based in the United States. In addition the Aerocrine US sales force 
has increased from 29 to 48. 
Research 	 and 	 d e v elopment
Investment in research and development increased to £46.8 million 
(2014: £38.6 million). Of this, £37 .4 million relates to the portfolio 
of allergy product candidates. This is similar to last year, however 
there have been changes in expenditure on the following allergy 
programmes:
― Cat allergy programme has decreased by £2.9 million from  
£12.7 million in 2014 to £9.8 million in 2015. This is because 
the cat allergy treatment phase III study (CATALYST) has now 
completed the last patient last dosing; also the two-to-five year 
follow-up (CP007A) was initiated in 2014 incurring a number of 
start-up costs, which have not recurred in 2015.
― House dust mite allergy programme has increased by  
£2.6 million from £11.6 million to £14.2 million. This is mainly 
because the phase IIb field study (TH005) completed enrolment 
in 2015 incurring costs of £12.3 million compared to  
£6.4 million the previous year; this was partially offset by 
much lower expenditure on CMC related activity, which was 
substantially completed in 2014 in preparation for TH005.
― Ragweed allergy programme has decreased by £3.2 million from 
£4.8 million to £1.6 million. The higher costs in 2014 were related 
to the 280 subject phase IIb chamber and field study (TR006), 
which completed that year.
― Birch allergy programme has increased by £0.7 million from  
£0.4 million to £1.1 million mainly driven by the initiation of a first-
in-human clinical study, which is now fully recruited.
A further £6.1 million has been invested in development of the 
respiratory portfolio and in particular a clinical study for the triple fixed 
dose combination, the first stage of which is now complete, and on 
pharmacokinetic testing for a Seretide
®
 pMDI substitute.
A dm i n is t r at iv e 	 e x p e ndi t u r e
Administrative expenses, which include overheads specific to corporate 
functions, centrally managed support functions and corporate costs, 
increased to £13.7 million (2014: £7.2 million). The increase reflects 
one-off deal costs of £4.0 million relating to the Aerocrine and Prosonix 
acquisitions (total deal costs for the acquisitions were £12.8 million, with 
the remaining £8.8 million offset against the Share Premium Account). 
Underlying administrative expenditure decreased by £0.6 million to  
£6.6 million. This was mainly because commercial infrastructure build 
costs of £0.8 million were included in administrative expenditure in 2014. 
Commercial costs such as these which were incurred in 2015  
are disclosed as sales and marketing costs.
O t he r 	 g a i ns
Other gains totalled £1.1 million (2014: £Nil). A gain of £1.1 million  
was made on forward contracts for Swedish krona and US dollars 
that were taken out to hedge against the purchase of Aerocrine and 
the associated repayment of a USD35 million loan that became due 
on change of control. The gain reflects the weakening of GBP Sterling 
against Swedish krona during the term of the contracts. 
Fi na nc e 	 i nc om e	
Included in finance income is bank interest receivable of £1.7 million  
(2014: £1.7 million) and a net gain on foreign exchange of £1.8 million 
(2014: £0.2 million).
R & D 	 t a x 	 cr edit s 	 on 	 qu ali f y ing 	 e x p enditu r e
A tax credit of £12.8 million (2014: £8.9 million) is recoverable under 
current legislation relating to R&D expenditure. The increase over the 
previous year reflects greater R&D investment following the acquisition 
of Prosonix and a lower tax credit rate for the first quarter of the 2014 
period, before it increased from 11% to 14.5% on 1 April 2014.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 29  
Circassia  
£m
Ac q ui s it i o ns 
£m
Ac qu i si t i o n 	 Cos t s 
£m
Group 2015 
£m
 
Circassia 2014 
£m
Revenue – 10.8 – 10.8 –
Cost of goods sold – (4.3) – (4.3) –
Gross profit – 6.5 – 6.5 –
Sales and marketing (5.2) (8.3) – (13.5) –
Research & development (37.4) (9.4) – (46.8) (38.6)
Administrative expenditure (6.6) (3.1) (4.0) (13.7) (7.2)
Other gains 1.1 – – 1.1 –
Operating loss (48.1) (14.3) (4.0) (66.4) (45.8)
Finance income/(costs) net 3.6 (0.1) – 3.5 1.9 
Share of profit/(loss) of joint venture 0.1 – – 0.1 (0.1)
Loss before tax (44.4) (14.4) (4.0) (62.8) (44.0)
Taxation 9.3 3.5 – 12.8 8.9
Loss for the financial year (35.1) (10.9) (4.0) (50.0) (35.1)
Cash
1
200.5 3.3 – 203.8 186.6
 
1
 Includes cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014
Financial review continued
£203.8m
Balance sheet remains robust with 
cash, cash equivalents and short-term 
deposits of £203.8 million at 31 Dec 2015 
(31 Dec 2014: £186.6 million).
£12.8m
Tax credits totalling £12.8 million are 
recoverable relating to R&D investment 
(2014: £8.9 million).
£10.8m
NIOX
®
 sales reached £10.3 million  
following acquisition on 19 June 2015 and 
respiratory sales totalled £0.5million.
£46.8m
R&D investment increased to £46.8 million  
(2014: £38.6 million).
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 30 Los s 	 a f ter 	 t a x 	 and 	 los s 	 p er 	 shar e
Loss for the financial year was £50.0 million (2014: £35.1 million), of 
which £49.9 million (2014: £35.1 million) was attributable to the owners 
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc. Basic loss per share attributable 
to the owners of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc was 20p (2014: 21p). 
Although there has been an increase in the Company’s Ordinary Share 
capital following the issue of 95.5 million shares under the Placing 
and Open Offer in June 2015, there has been little change in the basic 
loss per share because the loss for the financial year has increased 
proportionately. 
A c quisit ion 	 of 	 Aerocr ine 	 and 	 Prosoni x
On 11 June 2015, the Company issued 95,469,537 Ordinary  
Shares, which funded the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix.  
The shares were offered at 288.05p each, raising gross proceeds  
of £275.0 million. 
The consideration for Aerocrine’s entire outstanding ordinary share 
capital and employee share options that vested on change of control, 
was £138.3 million. At 30 June 2015, 92.6% of the share capital had 
been purchased, and by 2 July 2015, following an extension of the 
initial offer period, this increased to 97 .2%. By 31 December 2015 this 
had increased to 97 .9%. The remaining 2.1% of the share capital will be 
purchased as part of the arbitration process. The arbitrator is expected 
to issue a decision within the next month on the amount which needs 
to be placed in escrow in order to allow the company to take advance 
title to the outstanding shares. On 29 June 2015, Circassia paid 
USD45.1 million (£28.7 million) to OrbiMed and Novo in settlement of 
Aerocrine’s USD35 million loan that became due on change of control 
together with repayment costs and interest.
The purchase price for Prosonix’ entire outstanding share capital  
was £100.0 million. Of this, £30.0 million was deferred and contingent 
upon receipt of UK marketing authorisation for Prosonix’ lead product. 
This approval was received in December and payment of the deferred 
consideration was made in January 2016.
Deal costs relating to the acquisitions and the share issue were  
£12.8 million, of which £8.8 million was offset against the Share 
Premium Account and £4.0 million of indirect admission costs were 
included in the income statement. 
S t atement 	 of 	 financial 	 posit ion
The Group’s net assets were £409.7 million at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £190.8 million). The increase reflects the acquisition of Aerocrine 
and Prosonix, which has been included in the balance sheet at fair 
value. The detailed fair values for each company together with goodwill 
arising are set out in note 33. Deferred consideration of £30.0 million 
for the purchase of Prosonix has also been recorded. Following receipt 
of UK marketing authorisation for its lead product in December 2015, 
the deferred consideration was paid in January 2016 to the former 
shareholders of Prosonix. 
Current tax assets were £11.8 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: 
£8.8 million), representing the R&D tax credit due from H M Revenue 
and Customs. A payment of £9.0 million was received in H2 2015 from 
HMRC. Of the £11.8 million, £9.0 million relates to expenditure on the 
allergy programmes and £2.8 million on the respiratory programmes. 
Cas h 	 flo w
The Group’s cash position (including short-term deposits) increased 
from £186.6 million at 31 December 2014 to £203.8 million at  
31 December 2015. Main cash flows were:
― Gross proceeds of £275.0 million from the Placing and Open 
Offer (2014: gross proceeds of £202.0 million from the IPO).  
Of the £8.8 million share issue costs offset against the Share 
Premium Account, all of these have been paid.
― Loan repayment of USD45.1 million that became due on the 
acquisition of Aerocrine. This comprised the USD35 million  
(£22.3 million) principal, repayment costs of USD9.0 million  
(£5.7 million), pre-acquisition interest of USD1.0 million (£0.6 million) 
and post-acquisition interest of USD0.1 million (£64,000).
― Cash paid to date for the acquisitions of Aerocrine and  
Prosonix, net of cash acquired, is £169.1 million, which is made 
up of the acquisition of the companies net of cash totalling  
£161.9 million, and transactions with non-controlling interests 
of £7 .2 million. This total includes a payment of £70.0 million in 
respect of Prosonix and £136.8 million in respect of Aerocrine, 
offset in part by cash received on acquisition of £5.3 million and 
£32.4 million respectively. 
S ummar y 	 and 	 ou t look
During the next 12 months, the Company intends to ensure the 
allergy programmes remain on track. In addition, we plan to commit 
significant investment to our commercial infrastructure to prepare for 
the launch of our first allergy product and boost sales of our existing 
NIOX
®
 products. 
We continue to have a robust balance sheet, with cash of £203.8 
million as at 31 December 2015. Consequently, we are funded to 
deliver our wider portfolio and bring our next generation allergy 
products to market.
Julien 	 Cot t a
Chief Financial Officer
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 31 Drive
― We set ambitious goals and go for them, believing this  
drives extraordinary behaviour
― We persist, despite setbacks, to achieve goals
― We always convey a strong sense of urgency recognising saving 
time creates value
― We seek to achieve success even in complex and changing 
circumstances
― We always aim to meet or exceed our commitments
Effec t i v e n es s
― We understand key business drivers and manage  
our costs effectively
― We continuously seek to improve our performance and develop 
more effective ways of working
― We always strive to get the best value for money for our 
requirements and maximise the return on our investment
― We make informed decisions about the levels of expense needed 
for the business
― We are clear about roles and responsibilities
Div e r s i t y
The importance of diversity within the Group is also reflected in its 
policies and procedures. The Group does not have formal diversity 
quotas but recognises that a diverse employee profile is of significant 
benefit. The table below shows the gender profile at different levels of 
the Group as at 31 December 2015.
Mem b e r Mal e F emal e Total %Male % F emal e
Plc Board including 
Non-Executive 
Directors 10 2 12 83 17
Senior Managers 
excluding Directors 2 2 4 50 50
All other employees 131 105 236 56 44
Total 143 109 252 57 43
Emplo ye e 	 w el far e 	 and 	 in v olv ement
Employees are regularly provided with information about the Group, 
for example through regular ‘open house’ sessions at which the 
Chief Executive Officer and other members of the management team 
present on various topics such as strategic and operational progress, 
and employee-related policies. Feedback is frequently sought by line 
managers and the senior management team through team meetings.
Healt h 	 and 	 sa fet y
The Group is committed to protecting the health and safety of its 
employees and endeavours to maintain an effective health and  
safety culture.
The Group provides ongoing training to individuals who are responsible 
for health and safety and all staff are notified of health and safety 
practices. The Group continuously monitors its health and safety  
policy and practices to ensure they are robust, appropriate, and  
reflect changes in best practice.
The 	 Boar d 	 has 	 r esponsibilit y 	 for 	 all 	 mat ter s 	 r elat ing 	 to	
cor por ate 	 social 	 r es ponsibilit y . 	 Dir ec tor s 	 r ecognise 	 t he	
impor t anc e 	 of 	 cor por ate 	 social 	 r es ponsibilit y , 	 and 	 se ek 	 to	
t ak e 	 accou nt 	 of 	 t he 	 inter es t s 	 of 	 all 	 t he 	 G rou p’ s 	 s t ak ehold er s,	
inclu ding 	 it s 	 in v es tor s, 	 cu s tomer s, 	 su p plier s, 	 par t ner s, 	 and	
emplo ye es 	 when 	 op er at ing 	 t he 	 bu sines s . 	 The 	 Boar d 	 belie v es	
t hat 	 fos ter ing 	 an 	 en vironment 	 in 	 which 	 emplo ye es 	 ac t 	 in 	 an	
et hical 	 and 	 sociall y 	 r es ponsible 	 fas hion 	 is 	 cr it ical 	 to 	 it s 	 long-
ter m 	 succ es s . 	 The 	 G rou p 	 s t r iv es 	 to 	 be 	 a 	 good 	 cor por ate 	 cit izen	
and 	 r es p ec t s 	 t he 	 laws 	 of 	 t he 	 cou nt r ies 	 in 	 which 	 it 	 op er ates .
P e ople
Attracting, motivating and retaining a highly skilled workforce is key  
to the Group’s long-term success. The policies put in place by the 
Group accord with best practice, and stipulate that there should be 
equal opportunities and an absence of discrimination for all employees.
V alu e s
Our values, and the behaviours that underpin them, describe the 
culture of our business.
Passion
― We are passionate and committed about what we do
― We are excited about our products and technology  
and the impact they will have on patients’ lives
― We take our responsibilities seriously and ensure everything  
we do is delivered to the appropriate quality
― We thrive on demanding and challenging timelines  
and seek to exceed expectations and attain our goals
― We are energized to take action, despite obstacles  
and setbacks
Recognition
― We identify and acknowledge the contribution  
that individuals make
― We recognise and reward success internally and  
with our partners
― We understand mistakes are made; our ability to identify them, 
correct them, and learn from them makes the difference
― We promote the value of the team above that of the  
individual to achieve positive outcomes
In te gr it y
― We trust, respect and listen to each other
― We act with honesty, integrity and fairness at all times,  
we always strive to do the right thing
― We believe in constructively challenging each other  
and expect to be challenged 
― We are not afraid to say “I don’t know” and go and find out
― We promote open communication and collaboration, 
encouraging, honest, direct, and respectful feedback
― We take ownership for our actions
Corporate social responsibility
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 32 Et hical 	 and 	 social 	 policies
The Group is a pharmaceutical group and accordingly operates in  
a highly regulated ethical framework. It complies fully with these laws 
and regulations. The Company has a clear anti-bribery policy which  
is monitored by the Compliance department.
S u ns h i ne 	 A c t
The Group is committed to promoting transparency of its relationships 
with healthcare providers. It collects, tracks and reports payments to 
healthcare professionals and organisations in compliance with the US 
Physician Payment Sunshine Act.
Human 	 r ight s
We support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
recognise the obligation to promote universal respect for and 
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all,  
without distinction. We comply with all applicable human rights laws.
P r od uc t 	 d e v e l op m e nt
The Group’s ToleroMune
®
 technology undertakes early development 
efficacy testing in blood samples taken from human volunteers with 
allergies. It commissions third-party laboratories to conduct the 
minimum necessary pre-clinical product safety testing in animal 
models as required by regulatory authorities before commencing 
clinical studies. Regulators have required the Group to commission  
this safety testing for its allergy products. We work according to the 
3Rs policy relating to preclinical testing (Refine, Reduce, Replace).
E n v i r on m e nt
The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its activities on 
the environment. The majority of the Group’s employees operate out 
of modern office suites, although it also occupies laboratory space in 
Oxford and has a warehouse in Solna, Sweden. Accordingly, the Group 
believes that efficient use of energy and materials in those premises, 
and responsible disposal of hazardous waste, are the most important 
means of climate protection currently available to it. Office-based 
initiatives to reduce waste have also been adopted, which include 
recycling of paper waste, cans, plastics, batteries and printer toners/
cartridges. The Group does not possess or make use of corporate jets 
or private planes.
G r e enhou se 	 gas 	 emis sion
This section of the Annual report constitutes the Group’s disclosure 
of its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report 
Regulations 2013).
The Group considers that its current activities have a low environmental 
impact. Nonetheless, it still actively seeks to make energy savings  
in a fashion which is environmentally responsible and cost effective. 
The increases shown over 2014 in GHG emissions reflect the 
acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix which occurred in the  
course of the year. Prosonix occupies offices and laboratories  
in Oxford. Aerocrine has offices in Solna, Sweden, Bad-Homburg, 
Germany, and in Morrisville, North Carolina, and warehouse facilities  
in Uppsala, Sweden and Morrisville.
 2015 2014
CO
2
 equivalent emissions – 
scope 1 (tonnes) – –
CO
2
 equivalent emissions – 
scope 2 (tonnes) 97 17
GHG emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalents and calculated using the Defra conversion factors.  
The increase between 2015 and 2014 is largely due to acquisition  
of Aerocrine and Prosonix following the addition of their premises  
to the Group.
Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from 
purchase invoices and verified by reference to meter readings.
In order to express annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor 
associated with the Group’s business, an intensity ratio has been 
calculated which shows emissions reported per square metre of the 
office space occupied by the Group. This shows that the Group uses 
approximately 21 (2014: 47) kilogrammes of carbon dioxide per m².
P olit ical 	 and 	 char it able 	 donat ions
The Group does not make political or charitable donations, although 
charitable fundraising by employees is encouraged.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 33 Risks and risk management
The 	 management 	 of 	 r isks 	 is 	 a 	 k ey 	 r es ponsibilit y 	 of 	 t he 	 Boar d	
of 	 Dir ec tor s 	 of 	 t he 	 Company . 	 The 	 Boar d 	 ensu r es 	 t hat 	 t he	
r isks 	 t ak en 	 b y 	 t he 	 G rou p 	 ar e 	 u nd er s tood, 	 and 	 ar e 	 ap p rop r iate	
in 	 t he 	 light 	 of 	 it s 	 s t r ateg y 	 and 	 objec t iv es, 	 and 	 t hat 	 inter nal	
cont rols 	 ar e 	 in 	 plac e 	 to 	 effec t iv el y 	 id ent i f y , 	 as ses s, 	 and 	 manage	
impor t ant 	 r isks .
The risk management strategy adopted by the Company has a number 
of facets. A risk register has been created and is updated on an annual 
basis by those individuals in the business who manage risks on a 
day to day basis. This identifies each risk, assesses the likelihood of 
its occurrence and the level of impact on the business. This process 
is coordinated by the Chief Financial Officer. The register is reviewed 
by the Senior Management Team and subsequently reviewed by 
the Audit and Risk Committee and reported to the Board. There is a 
particular emphasis on ensuring that the risk appetite of the Board is 
fully understood by the Senior Management Team. The register also 
sets out activities and controls which are designed to mitigate the 
identified risks, and again the Board and the Senior Management Team 
analyse these mitigation strategies and ensure that the approach taken 
is consistent with the nature and degree of risks which are considered 
acceptable by the Board. Aside from the review, risk owners across 
the business are responsible for reporting any significant issues on an 
ongoing basis up to the Senior Management Team and for ensuring 
that other members of their teams are aware of the risk management 
process. The Senior Management Team, which meets weekly, receives 
summary weekly updates and more detailed monthly reports from 
all areas of the business, and updates the Board on a timely basis 
where important developments occur. Within the R&D function, project 
team meetings take place once a month at which the progress and 
risks of each individual project are discussed and detailed reports are 
circulated. The Quality Team, Compliance Committee, and Health  
and Safety Committee also meet regularly. These discussions  
are documented in reports which are circulated to the Senior 
Management Team.
The risk management system is designed to manage risks, rather 
than eliminate them at the expense of achieving corporate objectives. 
Accordingly, it can only provide a reasonable and not an absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management during the year has been enhanced to reflect the 
fact that, following the acquisition of Aerocrine, the Group now sells 
products in the US, Europe, and around the world. This has led to the 
inclusion of compliance with healthcare regulations as a new category 
of principal risk in this year’s report.
P r i nc i p a l 	 r isk s
The main risks relevant to the Group have been identified below, 
together with an explanation of how they are managed and controlled. 
Some risks are common across the pharmaceutical industry, while 
others reflect the Group’s specific strategy. The Company considers  
all of these risks relevant to any decision to invest in it.
R e g ulat or y 	 a p p r o v a ls
The Group may not obtain regulatory approval for those of its products 
which are in development. Even where products are approved, 
subsequent regulatory difficulties may arise, or the conditions relating to 
the approval may be more onerous or restrictive than the Group expects, 
or existing approvals might be withdrawn.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulatory authorities 
across the world enforce a range of laws and regulations which 
govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing 
of pharmaceutical products. Stringent standards are imposed which 
relate to the quality, safety and efficacy of these products. These 
requirements are a major determinant of whether it is commercially 
feasible to develop a drug substance or medical device given the time, 
expertise, and expense which must be invested. Moreover, approval 
in one territory offers no guarantee that regulatory approval will be 
obtained in any other territory.
The Group’s lead product candidate is a treatment for cat allergy. 
Failure to obtain regulatory approval for this lead product, or significant 
delays in obtaining approval, would have a material adverse effect on 
the Group’s business. This risk can be further divided into a number of 
component risks, each of which require distinct mitigation strategies. 
These include a failure to complete the phase III registration study and 
supporting studies; inability to demonstrate efficacy of the product 
after moving to field studies from chamber studies; and any problems 
which might arise in validating the manufacturing process for the active 
pharmaceutical ingredient in the product.
The Group already holds regulatory approvals for its NIOX MINO
®
 
and NIOX VERO
®
 devices in certain key countries such as the United 
States, Japan, and Germany but approvals are still pending in a 
number of other countries. Delays or complications in any of these 
regulatory applications could adversely affect the Group’s business.
In order to obtain regulatory approval for the Group’s products, it  
will be necessary to successfully complete supporting clinical studies.  
The Group is currently carrying out clinical trials for a number of 
its allergy and respiratory products. Clinical studies are typically 
expensive, complex and time-consuming, and have uncertain 
outcomes. Conditions in which clinical studies are conducted differ, 
and results achieved in one set of conditions could be different from 
the results achieved in different conditions or with different subject 
populations. Regulatory authorities or institutional review boards 
may suspend or terminate clinical studies at any time if the subjects 
participating in such studies are being exposed to unacceptable health 
risks or may require additional studies to be performed. Difficulties or 
delays in the enrolment of subjects could result in significant delays in 
the completion of those studies and even in their abandonment.
The Group relies on third party sub-contractors and service providers 
for the execution of most aspects of its development programmes. 
Failure of these third parties to provide services of a suitable quality 
within acceptable timeframes – for example due to technical reasons 
or bankruptcy of the provider – may cause the failure or delay of these 
development programmes.
Even where approval is obtained, regulatory authorities may still 
impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of 
the product or impose costly, ongoing requirements for post-marketing 
surveillance or post-approval studies, or may even withdraw the 
approval if new concerns over safety and efficacy arise.
Mitigating activities
The Group manages its regulatory risk by employing highly 
experienced clinical managers and regulatory affairs professionals who, 
where appropriate, will commission advice from external advisers and 
consult with the regulatory authorities on the design of the Group’s 
pre-clinical and clinical programs. These in-house experts ensure 
that high quality protocols and other documentation are submitted 
during the regulatory process, and that well-reputed contract research 
organisations with global capabilities are retained to manage the trials.
With regard to the risks specifically identified in relation to its cat 
allergy product, it is of note that final dosing in the phase III study 
has now been successfully completed; allergen levels used in the 
exposure chamber have been shown to be comparable to those 
experienced with an indoor cat; and three validation batches have been 
manufactured, giving comfort that the manufacturing process is robust.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 34 Unfor ese en 	 sid e 	 effec t s
Unforeseen side effects may result from the use of the Group’s 
products or product candidates.
There is a risk of adverse reactions with all drugs and there is a risk that 
the malfunction of a medical diagnostic may have an adverse impact 
on patients. If any of the Group’s products are found to cause adverse 
reactions or unacceptable side effects or risk of misdiagnosis, then 
product development may be delayed, additional expenses may be 
incurred if further studies or product development work are required, 
and, in extreme circumstances, it may prove necessary to suspend or 
terminate development. This may occur even after regulatory approval 
has been obtained, in which case additional trials may be required 
or the approval may be suspended or withdrawn or additional safety 
warnings may have to be included on the label.
Adverse events or unforeseen side effects or device malfunction may 
also potentially lead to product liability claims being raised against the 
Group as the developer of the products and sponsor of the relevant 
clinical trials.
Mitigating activities
The Group conducts extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials which 
test for and identify adverse side effects of its novel drug candidates. 
Its medical diagnostic products are subject to rigorous testing 
procedures. A robust pharmacovigilance plan is in place to ensure 
any safety issues are identified and reported. A Risk Evaluation and 
Mitigation Strategy (REMS) has also been developed to ensure that 
the benefits of its cat allergy product are balanced against any risks. 
Insurance is in place to cover product liability claims which may arise 
during the conduct of clinical trials or sales of the Group’s NIOX MINO
®
 
and NIOX VERO
®
 products.
Comme r c i al 	 su c c es s
The Group may not be able to sell its products profitably if 
reimbursement from third party payers such as private health insurers 
and government health authorities is restricted or not available because 
for example it proves difficult to build a strong enough economic 
case based on the burden of illness and population impact. Third 
party payers are increasingly attempting to curtail healthcare costs by 
challenging the prices that are charged for pharmaceutical products 
and denying or limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement. 
Moreover, even if the products can be sold profitably, they may not  
be accepted by patients and the medical community.
Alternatively, the Group’s competitors – many of whom have 
considerably greater financial and human resources – may develop 
safer or more effective products or be able to compete more effectively 
in the markets targeted by the Group. New companies may enter these 
markets and novel products and technologies may become available 
which are more commercially successful than those being developed 
by the Group.
The Group’s NIOX MINO
®
 and NIOX VERO
®
 devices compete with 
products made by Bedfont Limited and Medisoft SA. Neither of these 
competing products are currently available in the US. Outside the US 
and Germany the Group relies on distributors to sell its NIOX
®
 devices 
and such relationships must be carefully managed in order to ensure 
the services provided are of a sufficiently high quality.
The successful commercialisation of the Group’s fluticasone 
propionate will, when launched, be largely dependent upon its partner 
Mylan which has the exclusive rights to sell the product in most major 
markets. Moreover, this product and certain other drug products being 
developed by the Group for treatment of asthma, such as its Seretide 
substitute, are generic products and so will compete with the innovator 
products as well as potentially generics from other third parties.
Factors that may undermine the Group’s efforts to commercialise its 
products include: the inability to train and retain effective sales and 
marketing personnel; a failure to persuade prescribers to prescribe 
products; and higher costs of marketing and promotion than are 
anticipated by the Group.
Mitigating activities
In the context of its cat allergy treatment, thorough market research  
will be carried out prior to product launch and the findings will be 
used to generate effective and appropriately resourced marketing 
campaigns. This will emphasise the attributes which differentiate the 
product from its competitors, for example its short dosing regimen 
and favourable safety profile. A disease awareness campaign will be 
developed and implemented. Pricing and reimbursement studies and 
health economic data will be used to support the value proposition 
which will be presented to payers.
With regard to its NIOX
®
 franchise, the NIOX VERO
®
 has been launched  
in Europe, in the US, Japan and China. This device offers advantages 
over the NIOX MINO
®
 (in terms of portability, enhanced life, and  
better interface).
With respect to the Respiratory franchise, the Group’s agreement 
with Mylan contains provisions which offer remedies in the event 
that insufficient diligence is applied to the marketing of its Flixotide 
substitute. A joint steering committee oversees this project.
Complia nc e 	 w i t h 	 hea l t hc a r e 	 r e g ulat ions
The Group must comply with complex regulations in relation to the 
marketing of its device products (and in the future will need to comply 
with such regulations in relation to its drug products once approved). 
These regulations are strictly enforced. Failure by the Group (or its 
commercial partners) to comply with the US False Claims Act, Anti-
Kickback Statute and the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act 
and regulations relating to data privacy (amongst others) and similar 
legislation in countries outside the US may result in criminal and civil 
proceedings against the Group.
Mitigating activities
The Group has strengthened its internal Compliance function in 
the course of the year, by appointing an experienced compliance 
professional as VP, Global Compliance Officer. The Global Compliance 
Officer reports to the General Counsel but also has a direct reporting 
line to the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. A Compliance 
Committee has been formed to oversee activities in this area. The 
Compliance function works with a network of external advisers in the 
relevant territories to ensure the appropriate regulations are understood 
and that strategies are in place to support products in development 
and those already approved and sold. Robust processes are in place 
to ensure that sales compliance requirements are met and any failures 
or allegations of failure are swiftly investigated. This includes training of 
employees and audits of distributors and suppliers.
S u p pl y 	 Cha i n
The Group relies on third party contractors for the supply of key 
materials and services. Problems at these contractors, such as 
technical issues, contamination, and regulatory actions may lead to 
delays or even loss of supply or inadequate supply of these materials 
and services either prior to launch or thereafter. Some materials 
may only be available from one source, as is currently the case for 
the peptides contained in the Group’s cat allergy treatment, and the 
sensors for the NIOX MINO
®
 and NIOX VERO
®
 devices, and regulatory 
requirements may make substitution costly and time-consuming, 
particularly where the product is regulated as a biologic as is the  
case for the Group’s allergy products in the US.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 35 Risks and risk management continued
Mitigating activities
Audits of sub-contractors are routinely conducted according to 
procedures set out in the Group’s Quality system. Dual sourcing is 
being investigated where this is practicable. Manufacturing sites are 
well established FDA-approved facilities.
Research 	 and 	 d e v elopment 	 r isks
The Group may not be successful in its efforts to use and expand its 
allergy technology platform to build a pipeline of allergy products or its 
particle engineering technology to successfully develop a pipeline of 
respiratory products. This would have a material impact on the long 
term success of the business. Failure of programs could result from 
lack of internal resources or capabilities, or from not obtaining the 
desired pre-clinical and clinical results.
In addition, the Group is dependent upon external collaborators for  
the development of certain of its products. The Group relies upon  
its collaborations with Panasonic for the development of the NIOX
®
 
devices and upon ITG for the development of the sensors contained  
in those devices.
Mitigating activities
The Group has recruited highly experienced R&D executives. Projects 
are closely monitored against goals and regularly reported to the Senior 
Management Team and the Board, and external resources are retained 
where this is deemed appropriate. The development collaboration with 
Panasonic is managed by a steering committee with representatives 
from the Group. In addition, the Group will seek, through business 
development activity, to identify opportunities which would expand  
and diversify its portfolio. 
Intellec tu al 	 p rop er t y , 	 k no w 	 ho w , 	 and 	 t r ad e 	 secr et s
The Group may be subject to challenges relating to the validity of its 
patents. If these challenges are successful then the Group may be 
exposed to generic competition. One of the Group’s granted European 
patents relevant to its cat allergy treatment is currently the subject of 
opposition appeal proceedings at the European Patent Office. If the 
opponents are successful then the patent protection for its cat allergy 
treatment in Europe will be reduced.
Alternatively, the Group may be sued for infringement of third party 
patent rights. If these actions are successful then it would have to pay 
substantial damages and potentially remove its products from the 
market. Such litigation, particularly in the US, involves significant costs 
and uncertainties.
It is possible that the Group will not be able to secure intellectual 
property protection, or sufficient protection, in relation to products 
which are acquired or in development. Similarly, a failure by the Group 
to maintain or renew key patents would lead to the loss of such 
protection. In both cases the potential of the Group to earn revenue 
from its products could be compromised as it would be less difficult  
for third parties to copy the products.
The Group may rely upon know how and trade secrets to protect 
its products and maintain a competitive advantage. This may be 
especially important where patent protection is limited or lacking. 
Conversely, the Group may be subject to claims that its employees or 
agents have wrongfully used or disclosed the confidential information 
of third parties which could lead to damages or injunctions which affect 
particular products.
The Group licenses certain intellectual property rights from third 
parties. If the Group fails to comply with its obligations under these 
agreements it may enable the other party to terminate the agreement. 
This could impair the Group’s freedom to operate and potentially lead 
to third parties preventing it from selling certain of its products.
Mitigating activities
Important products are covered by more than one patent family and 
attacks on patents are defended using expert external patent attorneys 
and lawyers. A robust system is in place which ensures patents are 
renewed on time. Third party patent filings are monitored to ensure 
the Group continues to have freedom to operate and oppositions are 
filed where this is considered expedient. Confidential information (both 
of the Group and belonging to third parties) is protected through use 
of confidential disclosure agreements with third parties, and suitable 
provisions relating to confidentiality and intellectual property exist in the 
Group’s employment contracts. Licences are monitored for compliance 
with their terms.
At the beginning of the year there were four oppositions pending 
against the Group’s allergy patents – three relating to its cat allergy 
treatment patents and one relating to the patent protecting the Group’s 
treatment for Ragweed allergy.
A favourable result had been obtained in the opposition against the 
patent protecting the Group’s Ragweed allergy treatment opposition 
in December 2014 with the patent upheld. This was confirmed by a 
written decision issued in February 2015 and no appeal was filed by 
the opponent.
The opposition proceedings against the patent which covers the 
active constituents of the Group’s cat allergy treatment concluded in 
October 2015 with the opponent’s arguments being rejected and the 
patent being upheld. It has now been confirmed that the opponent 
will not be appealing the decision. A second opposition against a 
patent protecting the formulation of the cat allergy treatment was also 
successfully brought to a close in October with the patent upheld. 
Again it has been confirmed there will be no appeal by the opponent. 
There is a third opposition still pending, against a second formulation 
patent covering the Group’s cat allergy treatment. The oral proceedings 
in this matter took place in December 2015 and the decision was in 
the Group’s favour. The Group is now waiting for confirmation as to 
whether the opponent will appeal this outcome.
O r g an i sa t ion a l 	 cap ab ili t i e s 	 an d 	 cap ac i t y
The Group may be unable to successfully implement its plans for 
growth if it does not attract and retain employees with the requisite 
capabilities and experience, in appropriate numbers. More particularly, 
the rapid development which is envisaged may place unsupportable 
demands on the Group’s current managers and employees, 
particularly if it cannot attract sufficient new employees. The Group 
depends on the skills and experience of its current management team 
and employees, and is generally subject to competition for, and may  
fail to retain, skilled personnel.
Existing employees, investigators, consultants and commercial 
partners may engage in misconduct or improper activities, including 
non-compliance with regulatory standards and laws.
Where the Group acquires complementary technologies, products, or 
businesses it may not be able to integrate those acquisitions effectively or 
realise their expected benefits. In the second half of 2015 the Group has 
focused on integrating the operations of Aerocrine and Prosonix which it 
acquired on 18 June and 15 June respectively.
The Group may be vulnerable to disruption and damage as a result of 
failures of its computer systems.
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 36 Mitigating activities
The Group has budgeted for substantial growth in headcount over 
the next three years. The management team has already been 
strengthened in the course of 2015 by the recruitment of a Chief 
Business Officer. Remuneration packages are competitive, and 
incentive plans based on the contingent award of shares, are in place 
to attract, motivate and retain staff.
Disciplinary and whistleblowing policies exist to address misconduct 
by employees and officers, and committee structures have been 
established with the Contract Research Organisations instructed by 
the Group, to monitor and manage the conduct of the Group’s clinical 
trials. To address IT risks, a disaster recovery plan has been developed. 
Data is backed up daily on off-site servers and the Group operates 
from a number of physically separate sites.
F r e e 	 Float
The UK Listing Authority requires listing issuers to maintain at least 
25% free float in their listed shares. At 29 February 2016 the Company 
had a free float of approximately 18%. If the level of free float cannot 
be increased to 25% then the UKLA can require the Company to delist 
from the Official List. This would adversely affect the ability of new and 
existing shareholders to buy Ordinary shares and of holders to sell them.
Mitigating activities
The Company will keep the free float under review, and if it remains 
below 25% will: (i) discuss with Shareholders who own more than 
5% of the issue share capital of the Company whether any of their 
holdings can be disaggregated because decisions are being taken 
by independent investment managers within that Shareholder’s 
organisation; (ii) discuss with such Shareholders the prospect of 
reducing their holding below 5%; (iii) seek a derogation from the  
UKLA while such measures are being implemented.
Fi na nc ia l 	 O p e r at io ns
The Group has incurred significant losses since the inception of its various 
businesses (including those of its recently acquired companies Aerocrine 
and Prosonix) and anticipates that it will continue to do so, at least until it is 
able to launch its allergy products.
Foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect the Group’s 
results and financial condition. The Group records its transactions and 
prepares its financial statements in pounds sterling, but a significant 
proportion of its expenditure is in US dollars, Swedish krona, Canadian 
dollars, Swiss Francs, or Euros.
Adverse decisions of regulators, including tax authorities, or changes 
in tax treaties, laws, or the interpretation of those laws, could reduce or 
eliminate research and development tax credits which the Group, and 
its joint venture Adiga Life Sciences Inc. currently receive in the United 
Kingdom and Canada respectively.
Mitigating activities
The Group has prepared a detailed forecast for the next 10 years and, 
if it achieves its objectives, this shows that the current business plan is 
sufficient to take the Group through to profitability. Forward purchases 
of foreign currencies are made when exchange rates are favourable 
to provide for expenditure in those currencies. Markets are constantly 
monitored and an external commentary is provided by Investec on a 
daily basis. If tax credits are lost in the future then action would be taken 
to reduce discretionary expenditure in order to ensure there remained 
sufficient cash to support the business through to profitability.
V i a b i l i t y 	 S t a te me n t
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three 
year period to 31 December 2018, taking account of the Group’s 
current position and the potential impact of the principal risks identified 
above. Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered the robustness 
of the Group, taking account of its current position, potential future 
developments, the principal risks facing it, and the effectiveness of 
mitigation plans and controls. Their assessment has encompassed the 
potential impact of significant credible scenarios on the business model, 
future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period to 31 December 
2018.
The Directors have determined that a three year period is the 
appropriate length of time over which to provide its viability statement. 
The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a detailed three 
year budget for the Group. This is limited to three years given the  
nature of the business and uncertainty. This is built from the bottom  
up and is stress tested for the following key scenarios:
― Cat trial results negative with read across remaining allergy 
programmes. In this scenario, expenditure on the allergy 
programme was re-prioritised in favour of the respiratory and 
NIOX
®
 programmes
― Reasonable delays in key product launches
― NIOX
®
 sales growth targets missed
In each case, the mitigating actions were robust enough to  
ensure the solvency and liquidity of the Group through to at least  
31 December 2018.
The budget was approved by the Board at its December 2015 meeting.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the Basis of 
Preparation paragraph in note 1 to the accounts.
The Strategic report on pages 01 to 37 has been approved  
by the Board.
Steven Harris
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2016
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 37 Board of Directors
1 Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman, 65 
Dr Francesco Granata, joined Circassia 
as Chairman on 1 September 2013. 
He is also Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee.
Francesco is senior advisor at Warburg 
Pincus International LLC. Prior to this 
he was Executive Vice President at 
Biogen Idec Inc., and before that he 
was Group Vice President and 
President responsible for Canada and 
major European markets at Schering-
Plough Corporation. Previously, he 
served as Regional President for 
Northern Europe and also Middle East 
and Africa at Pfizer Inc., and as 
Managing Director of Pharmacia & 
Upjohn Inc. in Italy. He is currently a 
Board member of Italfarmaco SpA,  
a leading Italian pharmaceutical group 
that operates in both the pharma  
and chemical sectors; Prismic 
Pharmaceuticals Inc., a US based 
medical food company; Quanta Ltd.,  
a UK company that has developed 
advanced haemodialysis systems for 
use in the home and clinic; Cell Therapy 
Ltd., a UK biotechnology company 
focused on regenerative medicine;  
and a member of the strategic advisory 
committee at Lupin, a leading Indian 
global pharmaceutical company. Prior 
to his career in industry, Francesco 
practised as a medical doctor 
specialising in cardiology. He holds a 
degree in medicine and surgery from 
the University of Pavia, Italy, and was 
formerly a member of the Board of the 
European Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industry Associations.
2 Steven Harris 
Chief Executive Officer, 49
Steven Harris co-founded Circassia on 
19 May 2006 and has led the Company 
as Chief Executive Officer since then.
Steven has extensive experience of 
leading specialty pharmaceutical 
companies. Prior to co-founding 
Circassia, he was a founding member 
of the management team that grew 
Zeneus Pharma Limited into a 
successful specialty pharmaceutical 
company and managed its acquisition 
by Cephalon Inc. (now part of Teva 
Pharmaceutical Industries Limited). 
Prior to this he served for seven years 
as Chief Financial Officer of PowderJect 
Pharmaceuticals plc and was a key 
member of the management team 
which grew the organisation from a 
private biotechnology company to the 
world’s fifth largest vaccines business, 
before it was acquired by Chiron 
Corporation in 2003. He holds  
a BSc from Southampton University 
and is a Chartered Accountant and a 
member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of England and Wales 
(ICAEW).
3 Julien Cotta 
Chief Financial Officer, 52
Julien Cotta joined Circassia as Chief 
Financial Officer on 5 January 2012 
and was appointed a Director on 
26 November 2013.
Julien has significant financial 
management experience in the 
healthcare industry. Prior to joining 
Circassia, he was Chief Financial 
Officer of the Finnish medical 
technology company, Inion Oy, and 
before this Group Financial Controller 
at Whatman plc (now part of GE 
Healthcare). Previously, he served as 
Vice President of Financial Accounting 
at Chiron Corporation and Group 
Financial Controller at PowderJect 
Pharmaceuticals plc (prior to its 
acquisition by Chiron in 2003).  
Before this he held senior financial 
management roles at Scotia 
Pharmaceuticals Limited, and Sanofi 
S.A., having begun his pharmaceutical 
career as a sales representative at 
Merck Sharpe & Dohme Corporation. 
He completed his accountancy training 
at Coopers & Lybrand (now 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP). Julien 
holds a BSc (Hons) in Pharmacology 
from University College London and  
is a Chartered Accountant and  
a member of the ICAEW.
4 Dr Rod Hafner 
Director and Senior Vice President 
Research & Development, 50
Dr Rod Hafner joined Circassia on  
1 March 2007 and became Senior 
Vice President of Research & 
Development and a Director on 10 
March 2008.
Rod has many years of experience at a 
senior level in the life sciences industry 
and is a named inventor on numerous 
granted patents and patent 
applications. Before joining Circassia, 
he led the UK operating company of 
the Scandinavian drug delivery 
business, OptiNose AS (now OptiNose 
US Inc.) and prior to that was Director 
of Programme Management and Vice 
President of Research & Development 
Portfolio Management at PowderJect. 
Other roles have included Head of 
Project Management at Cortecs 
International Limited and positions at 
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now 
Pfizer) and The Procter & Gamble 
Company. Rod has led Circassia’s 
research and development function 
since joining in 2007. He has a BSc 
(Hons) in Biochemistry from Edinburgh 
University and a PhD in Biochemistry 
from the University of Cambridge.
5 Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 
Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director, 60
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
joined Circassia as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 November 2012.  
He is a Member of the Audit and  
Risk Committee and the Nomination 
Committee.
Jean-Jacques has extensive 
pharmaceutical research and 
development experience having held 
senior roles at companies in the United 
States and Europe. Until recently he was 
Global Head of Pharma Research and 
Early Development and a member of  
the extended corporate executive 
committee at F Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. 
having joined the company in 2007 as 
Global Head of Pharmaceutical 
Development and Chief Medical Officer. 
Prior to this he was Global Head of 
Clinical Research and Development  
and Global Head of Exploratory 
Development at Novartis and held  
roles at Schering-Plough Corporation, 
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Limited and 
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc.  
Before working in industry, Jean-
Jacques practised medicine at the 
Claude Bernard Hospital in Paris, France 
after gaining his medical degree at the 
University of Paris. He is a Non-
Executive Director at MedDay SAS, 
Inatherys SAS and Polyphor Limited  
and Chairman of the Inserm Transfert 
Initiatives Investment Committee.
6 Dr Tim Corn 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director, 64
Dr Tim Corn joined Circassia as an 
independent Non-Executive Director 
on 1 August 2006. He is a Member of 
the Audit and Risk Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee, and the 
Nomination Committee.
Tim was previously Chief Medical 
Officer at EUSA Pharma (Europe 
Limited), an international division  
of Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc. In the 
course of his career, he has played  
a key role in the regulatory approval  
of numerous products in the fields of 
neurology and oncology. Tim qualified 
in medicine at King’s College Hospital, 
London, after gaining an MSc in 
Biochemistry from Imperial College, 
London. He has been a Fellow of the 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine 
since 1996 and a Fellow of the Royal 
College of Psychiatrists since 1998.  
He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees 
of the Neuro Foundation and a 
Non-Executive Director of Reneuron plc.
7 Russell Cummings 
Non-Executive Director, 51
Russell Cummings joined Circassia  
as a Non-Executive Director on 
25 January 2007. He is Chief 
Executive Officer of Imperial 
Innovations Group plc, having joined 
as Chief Investment Officer in 2006. 
From 2003 to 2006, he held roles at 
the growth equity and venture capital 
firm Scottish Equity Partners LLP ,  
and prior to this spent 16 years at the 
international venture capital company 
3i Group plc, latterly as a Director in its 
UK Technology Group. He holds a BSc 
(Eng) in Mechanical Engineering from 
Imperial College, London. Russell is 
also a Non-Executive Director of 
Nexeon Limited.
8 Paul R Edick 
Non-Executive Director, 60
Paul R Edick joined Circassia as an 
independent Non-Executive Director 
on 3 April 2013.
Until 18 November 2014 Paul was 
Chief Executive Officer of Durata 
Therapeutics Inc. which was acquired 
by Actavis plc. Prior to this he was 
Chief Executive Officer of Ganic 
Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Warburg 
Pincus investment vehicle disbanded 
in June 2010. From 2006 to 2008 he 
served as Chief Executive Officer of 
MedPointe Healthcare Inc., following  
a period as President. After MedPointe 
was acquired by Meda in late 2007,  
he continued in office until mid-2008 
and then acted as a consultant for the 
rest of the year. Earlier roles included  
a number of senior positions at GD 
Searle & Company, and Pharmacia 
Corporation (now Pfizer Inc.), following 
the acquisition of Searle by Pharmacia, 
culminating in his appointment as 
Pharmacia’s Group Vice President  
and President, Asia Pacific/Latin 
America Operations. Paul holds a BA 
in Psychology from Hamilton College.  
He currently sits on the board of 
NewLink Genetics Corporation,  
Iterum Therapeutics, NEOS 
Therapeutics, and PDL BioPharma, 
and was previously chairman of the 
Danish biotechnology company, Life 
Cycle Pharma A/S.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 38 9 Cathrin Petty 
Non-Executive Director, 42
Cathrin Petty joined Circassia  
as a Non-Executive Director on  
8 March 2010.
Cathrin is Co-Head of EMEA 
Healthcare at J.P . Morgan, and has 
extensive senior level experience of the 
life sciences industry. She has held a 
number of non-executive roles, most 
recently at ICON plc and at the NHS 
Strategic Health Authority for Greater 
London. She has previously worked  
as Special Partner at Vitruvian Partners 
LLP , Partner at Apax Partners LLP ,  
and at Schroders and Schroder 
Ventures Life Sciences. She holds  
an MA in Natural Sciences from the 
University of Cambridge and a 
post-graduate Diploma in 
Management Studies from  
the Judge Institute, Cambridge.
10 Marvin S Samson 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director, 74
Marvin S Samson joined Circassia  
as an independent Non-Executive 
Director on 8 December 2015.  
He is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Marvin brings to Circassia 50 years’ 
experience of the specialty 
pharmaceutical industry, having 
established and led a number of 
successful companies. He is currently 
Founder and CEO of Samson Medical 
Technologies LLC, and was until 
recently Interim President of the 
University of the Sciences, 
Philadelphia. Previously, he was  
CEO and Chairman of Qualitest 
Pharmaceuticals, Group Vice President 
of Injectables at Teva, CEO and 
President of SICOR, Founder, 
President and CEO of Marsam 
Pharmaceuticals and Founder, CEO 
and President of Elkins-Sinn. He holds 
a BSc in Chemistry from Temple 
University, Philadelphia. He is currently 
a Non-Executive Director of Antares 
Pharma Inc, Flynn Pharma Ltd and 
NanoPass Technologies Ltd. He is also 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of 
the University of the Sciences in 
Philadelphia and a Board Member of 
the Cooper Rowan Medical School, 
Virtua Health and the Franklin Institute.
11 Charles Swingland 
Non-Executive Director, 63
Charles Swingland is a Non-Executive 
Director and co-founder of Circassia.
Charles is Deputy Chairman and 
General Counsel at Drayson 
Technologies Limited. He was General 
Counsel, Company Secretary and 
Deputy Chairman of Circassia from 
May 2006 until March 2014. Prior to 
founding Circassia with Steven Harris, 
he was a Director and General 
Counsel at Zeneus Pharma Limited 
from 2004 to 2006 and before this 
was Executive Director, General 
Counsel and Company Secretary at 
PowderJect, until it was sold to Chiron 
in 2003. Before working in industry, 
Charles practised as a lawyer in the 
City of London for over 15 years. 
Charles is a member of the board  
of advisers of the Earthwatch Institute.
12 Lota S Zoth 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director, 56
Lota Zoth joined Circassia as an 
independent Non-Executive Director 
on 9 February 2015. She is Chair  
of the Audit and Risk Committee  
and a member of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Lota is an experienced Board member, 
and has significant financial experience 
gained in a number of global public 
companies. Most recently she was 
CFO at MedImmune, and she 
previously held senior positions at 
PSINet, Sodexho Marriott, PepsiCo 
and Ernst & Young. She is currently  
a Non-Executive Director at Hyperion 
Therapeutics Inc, NewLink Genetics 
Corporation, Orexigen Therapeutics 
Inc., and Spark Therapeutics. She is 
also Chair of Aeras, a non-profit 
product development organisation 
focused on tuberculosis and funded  
by The Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation, and until 2014 was a 
Non-Executive Director at privately-
held biopharmaceutical company 
Ikaria Inc. Lota has over 30 years’ 
experience as a Certified Public 
Accountant, and holds a Bachelor  
of Business Administration from  
Texas Tech University.
12
1
3
5
7
9
2
4
6
8
10
11
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 39 Corporate governance report
Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) sets out the 
principles of good practice in relation to corporate governance which 
should be followed by companies with a listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council 
(“FRC”) and the most recent edition (September 2014) can be found  
on their website (www.frc.org.uk).
The principles of the Code are divided into five sections. Each section 
sets out the main principles relating to Leadership; Effectiveness; 
Accountability; Remuneration; and Relations with Shareholders.  
This report explains how Circassia has applied these principles.
The Directors support high standards of corporate governance. 
However, as is explained below, the Company has not complied with 
the recommendations of the Code that at least half the Board should 
comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, until 27 February 2015 the Company did not comply with 
the requirement that the Audit and Risk Committee should comprise 
only Independent Non-Executive Directors. However, since the 
appointment of Lota Zoth to the Audit and Risk Committee which 
occurred on 27 February 2015, the Audit and Risk Committee’s 
composition has complied in full with the independence requirements 
of the Code.
Further, from 15 September 2014 to 9 February 2015 the Company  
did not comply with the requirement that the Remuneration Committee 
consists only of Independent Non-Executive Directors. However, 
since the appointment of Lota Zoth to the Remuneration Committee 
on 9 February 2015, the Remuneration Committee’s composition has 
complied in full with the independence requirements of the Code.
At the beginning of 2015, the Board consisted of ten members, the 
Chairman (who was independent on appointment), three Executive 
Directors, and six Non-Executive Directors. Of the six Non-Executive 
Directors, two were considered by the Board to be independent. 
Following the appointment of Lota Zoth on 9 February 2015 and 
the appointment of Marvin Samson on 8 December 2015, the 
number of Independent Non-Executive Directors has risen to four. 
The independence ratio of the Board (excluding the Chairman) was 
therefore 22% at the beginning of year, but rose to 30% from  
9 February 2015, and to 36% by the end of the year. Moreover, Paul 
Edick, has announced that he does not intend to stand for re-election 
at the Company’s 2016 Annual General Meeting and accordingly, from 
18 May 2016, the independence ratio is expected to rise further, to 40%.
The Board believes that at this point in the Group’s development it  
is important that it has access to the expertise and knowledge of its 
Non-Executive Directors. Moreover, the Company has been successful 
in recruiting two additional Independent Non-Executive Directors and 
so the proportion of the Board which comprises Independent  
Non-Executive Directors has been steadily increased over the  
course of the past year.
Dear Shareholders
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassia’s Corporate 
governance report for the year ended 31 December 2015. It describes 
how the Board and its Committees apply the principles of good corporate 
governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council (the “Code”). 
High standards of corporate governance are fundamental to our 
business and are implemented and supported through appropriate 
internal policies and procedures. The responsibility for ensuring this 
framework is effective lies with the Board, and we are constantly 
striving to improve standards while building a successful company. 
These same high standards have been applied following the 
acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix, to ensure that governance  
is well embedded throughout the Group.
One area on which the Board has focused in particular since Listing 
relates to its composition. As we explained at the time of Listing, the 
Board believes that at this critical point in its development the Group 
benefits from the knowledge and experience of the full range of its 
Non-Executive Directors but has been looking to appoint further 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. I am therefore pleased to report 
that we were able to make two such appointments in the course of 
the year. On 9 February 2015, Ms Lota Zoth joined the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director. Ms Zoth has recent and relevant 
financial experience and was appointed Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee on 27 February 2015. In addition, Mr Marvin Samson joined 
the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 8 December 
2015. He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 
9th February 2016.
Mr Paul Edick, who has served as a Non-Executive Director since  
3 April 2013 has announced that he does not intend to seek re-election 
at the Company’s 2016 Annual General Meeting. We are very grateful 
to Paul for his significant contribution.
Maintaining good communication with our Shareholders is extremely 
important to us. During the year, Steven Harris, our CEO has held 
a number of meetings with investors and current shareholders, and 
presented at several conferences which were attended by existing 
and potential Shareholders. Communications with Shareholders are 
coordinated by the Head of Corporate Communications, who reports 
directly to the CEO.
Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman
Corporate governance
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 40 The Group’s Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , is required to 
review whether this Corporate governance statement properly reflects 
the Group’s compliance with certain provisions of the Code and to 
report any non-compliance. The Group confirms that no report of 
non-compliance has been made other than in respect of the matters 
identified above in relation to Board composition.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the leadership and long-term success 
of the business. It has a schedule of matters which are reserved 
for its review. These include the review and approval of strategic 
plans, financial statements and budgets, financing, acquisitions and 
disposals, major capital expenditure, dividend policy, making key risk 
decisions, monitoring health, safety and environmental performance, 
and Executive remuneration and appointments.
At each meeting, the Board assesses the progress of the Group when 
measured against its objectives, particularly those which relate to its 
clinical trials programmes, and reviews financial performance against 
the budget.
Roles and responsibilities
The Board is currently composed of the Chairman, three Executive 
Directors, and eight Non-Executive Directors. The biographies  
of the members of the Board who served during the year to  
31 December 2015 are set out on pages 38 to 39 of this report.
The Executive Directors have direct responsibility for the business 
operations of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors, by virtue of 
their wide range of industry experience and skills, bring an informed 
view to the decision making process.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly 
delineated. This division of responsibilities has been set out in writing 
and approved by the Board.
Chairman
Dr Francesco Granata, Chairman, is responsible for the leadership of 
the Board and its effectiveness by ensuring that:
 — the agenda for meetings is appropriate, and the Board is provided 
with the information it needs for high quality decision making in a 
timely fashion;
 — the Board plays a full and constructive role in shaping the strategy 
of the Group;
 — the Board environment is productive and utilises the skills and 
experience of all members;
 — the Board complies with the appropriate standards of corporate 
governance;
 — the Committees are properly structured and resourced;
 — the performance of the Board, its Committees, and individual 
Directors are evaluated each year; and
 — there is effective communication with Shareholders.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met in the absence 
of the Executive Directors at the end of each Board meeting which 
occurred in 2015.
Chief Executive Officer
Steven Harris, Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for the day to  
day management of the Company and for implementing the strategy 
which has been reviewed and approved by the Board. He is also 
responsible for ensuring effective communication with Shareholders, 
brokers, and analysts.
The composition of the three Board Committees throughout the year 
and the extent to which their composition complied with the provisions 
of the Code, was as follows:
 — Nomination Committee  
The Code requires that a majority of the members of the  
Committee should be Independent Non-Executive Directors  
and the Committee should be chaired by the Chairman or an 
Independent Non-Executive Director. Throughout the year,  
the Committee was composed of the following members:  
Dr Francesco Granata (Chairman and Chair of the Committee); 
Dr Tim Corn, and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud. Two-thirds of the 
Committee was therefore made up of Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, with the remaining place filled by the Chairman.  
The composition of the Nomination Committee therefore  
complied fully with the recommendations of the Code.
 — Remuneration Committee 
The Code requires that the Committee should comprise a 
minimum of three Directors, all of whom should be independent. 
For the period from 1 January 2015 until 9 February 2015, the 
Committee members were: Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud (Chair of  
the Committee); Dr Tim Corn and Mr Paul Edick. As Mr Edick  
was not considered to be independent at the time, the composition 
of the Committee did not comply with the requirements of the 
Code for this period. However, on 9 February 2015 Mr Edick  
was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth, who was and is independent.  
On 9 February 2016 Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud stepped down as 
Chair of the Committee and was replaced by Mr Marvin Samson. 
As both Dr Garaud and Mr Samson are independent, this had 
no impact on the independent composition of the Committee. 
Therefore, from 9 February 2015 until the end of the year and 
up to the date of this report, the Committee complied with the 
membership requirements of the Code insofar as they relate to 
independence.
 — Audit and Risk Committee 
The Code requires that the Committee should comprise a minimum 
of three Directors, all of whom should be independent. For the 
period from 1 January 2015 to 27 February 2015, the Committee 
was made up of three members: Ms Cathrin Petty (Chair of the 
Committee); Dr Tim Corn; and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud. Ms Petty 
has recent and relevant financial experience but is not considered 
to be independent. Therefore, for this period, the composition of  
the Committee did not fully comply with the requirements of the 
Code. However, Ms Petty was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth on  
27 February 2015 who has recent and relevant financial experience 
and is independent. Therefore, from 27 February 2015 until the 
end of the year and up to the date of this report, the membership 
of the Audit and Risk Committee complied with the membership 
requirements of the Code insofar as they relate to independence.
The Board confirms that in all other respects, the Group has fully 
complied with the principles of the Code throughout the year to  
31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report. Details of 
Directors’ remuneration, as required by the Code and Part 4 to 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, are set out  
in the Remuneration Committee report.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 41 Board Committees
The Board has three Committees: the Audit and Risk Committee;  
the Nomination Committee; and the Remuneration Committee, to 
which it delegates specific responsibilities. The reports of these 
Committees and details of their composition form part of the  
Corporate governance report.
Each Committee has full terms of reference which have been approved 
by the Board and also appear on the website at www.circassia.com. 
These terms of reference are reviewed annually. The Board provides 
the Committees with sufficient resources, including access to external 
advisers, as may be required in order to fulfil their roles.
Board meetings
The Board aims to meet at least five times during the year.  
Additional meetings may be arranged where urgent matters arise. 
These additional meetings may be held by telephone.
The table below sets out the attendance of the Directors, while they 
were Board members, at scheduled meetings which occurred during 
the year to 31 December 2015.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud has been Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director since 21 February 2014. He works closely with 
the Chairman to resolve any significant issues which may arise and is 
responsible for the annual evaluation of the Chairman’s performance, 
for leading the other Non-Executive Directors in their oversight of the 
Chairman, and for ensuring there is a clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. He is available 
to communicate directly with Shareholders if they have concerns which 
cannot be resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer, or Chief Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Directors
The role of the Non-Executive Directors, and of the Committees 
of which they are members, is to scrutinise the performance of 
management, satisfy themselves that the financial and risk control 
mechanisms are robust, and determine appropriate levels of Executive 
pay. They have wide ranging experience of industry and bring their 
judgement to bear in the decision making process of the Board.  
Their seniority and range of skills ensure that no one individual can 
dominate this process.
Corporate governance continued
 
Committee 
Memberships
Independent 
status Board
Nomination 
Committee
Audit 
and Risk 
Committee
 
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive Directors      
Steven Harris n/a n/a 5 (5) 2 (2)
 1
4 (4)
 1
3 (3) 
1
Julien Cotta n/a n/a 5 (5) 2 (2)
 2
4 (4)
 2
3 (3) 
2
Rod Hafner n/a n/a 5 (5) – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Francesco Granata N (Chair) Yes 5 (5) 2 (2) – –
Jean-Jacques Garaud A, R (Chair), N Yes 5 (5) 1 (2) 3 (4) 3 (3)
Tim Corn A, R, N Yes 5 (5) 2 (2) 4 (4) 3 (3)
Russell Cummings – No 5 (5) – –
–
Paul R Edick R
 3
No 5 (5) – – 1 (1)
Cathrin Petty A (Chair)
 4
No 5 (5) – 1 (1)
–
Charles Swingland – No 5 (5) – – –
Lota Zoth
 5
A
 6
, R
 7
Yes 5 (5) – 3 (3) 3 (3)
Marvin Samson
 8
 Yes – – – –
N = Nomination Committee, R = Remuneration Committee, A = Audit Committee
 
1
 By invitation
2
 In the capacity of Secretary to the Committee
3
 Until 9 February 2015 when he was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth 
4
 Until 27 February 2015 when she was succeeded by Ms Lota Zoth (who was in attendance but not formally present at the first meeting of the year)
5
 Appointed to the Board 9 February 2015
6
 Appointed to the Committee (as Chair) 27 February 2015
7
 Appointed to the Committee 9 February 2015
8
 Appointed to the Board 8 December 2015 at the end of the Board meeting
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 42 Appointments to the Board
The procedure for appointment of new Directors to the Board is formal, 
rigorous and transparent. The process is led by the Nomination Committee 
which comprises the Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee 
before a recommendation is made to the Board.
Diversity
The Board recognises the value of diversity at all levels of the Group.  
The Group has an Equal Treatment, Equal Opportunities and Diversity 
policy which extends to the Board. This provides that the Group will 
employ and promote employees on the basis of their abilities and 
qualifications without regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, 
marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (including 
colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex or 
sexual orientation. The Group appoints, trains, develops and promotes 
on the basis of merit alone.
Induction and training
Upon appointment, each Director receives a comprehensive 
induction package which includes written materials relevant to their 
responsibilities. In addition, meetings are organised with other Board 
members and with members of the Company’s management team.
All Directors have direct access to the advice of the Company 
Secretary. Whenever it is considered necessary, the Company 
Secretary can arrange the appointment of professional advisers at  
the Group’s expense to assist Board members in their roles.
Directors receive frequent updates on commercial developments 
affecting the business as well as regulatory and legislative changes. 
Directors are invited, during the annual evaluation procedure, to identify 
any training which they feel might benefit them.
Information
In advance of each Board Meeting, Directors receive a full agenda 
and a comprehensive set of papers which include commercial and 
functional reports. A procedure is in place to ensure that these 
materials are delivered to the Board in a timely fashion. Senior 
employees of the business regularly attend meetings in order to 
enhance the Non-Executive Directors’ understanding of current issues 
and give them the opportunity to ask detailed questions.
Commitment
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors – which are set out in their biographies – leave 
them with sufficient time to diligently perform their role for the Group.
Performance evaluation
Formal Board evaluations are carried out once a year, and informal 
evaluations are carried out on a continuing basis throughout the year. 
The formal evaluation commences with the circulation of a written 
questionnaire which has been prepared by the Company Secretary 
with the assistance of the Auditors. This invites Directors to rate and 
comment on the performance of the Board in a number of areas, 
including the conduct of Board meetings; the standard and timeliness 
of information; the balance of skills of the members of the Board; the 
roles and responsibilities of individual Directors; and compliance with 
good corporate governance practices. A detailed, anonymised analysis 
of these responses is then prepared by the Company Secretary and 
reviewed and discussed by the Board.
The Board intends to subject itself to an external review every third 
year. No external review occurred in 2014 or 2015. Accordingly it is 
anticipated that there will be an external review in 2016.
Board activity
The Board’s main activities during the course of the year included:
 — Regular reviews of risk management;
 — Reviews of the progress of the Group’s clinical trials;
 — Progression and ultimate approval of the acquisitions of Aerocrine 
AB and Prosonix Limited and the placing and open offer which 
raised £275M to fund those acquisitions;
 — Reviews of the progress of business and corporate development 
activity and opportunities;
 — Conducting an in-depth review of the Group’s strategy over a 
period of two days;
 — Assessment of the financial performance against the budget for 
FY 2015;
 — Approval of the budget for FY 2016 – 2018;
 — Completion of a Board evaluation exercise.
Following the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix, the Board has 
focused on ensuring that these businesses have been effectively 
integrated into the Group and its governance framework. Prior to this 
acquisition the Group was developing pharmaceutical products but did 
not have any marketed pharmaceutical products or medical devices. 
As Aerocrine markets approved devices in the US, Europe and 
elsewhere, the Board has paid particular attention to those aspects  
of governance which relate to healthcare compliance.
Effectiveness
Independence
The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive Directors 
each year. For the period 1 January 2015 to 9 February 2015, excluding 
the Chairman, two of the nine Board members were Non-Executive 
Directors who were considered by the Board to be independent.  
For the period from 9 February 2015 to 8 December 2015, three out of 
ten Board members were considered to be Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and from 8 December 2015 to 31 December 2015 four out 
of eleven Board members were considered to be Independent Non-
Executive Directors.
Dr Tim Corn and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud have participated in the 
Company’s unapproved share option scheme in the past. However, this 
scheme is unrelated to performance, such participation was historic, and 
no further share options will be granted to these Directors. The Board has 
therefore determined that it regards Dr Tim Corn and Dr Jean-Jacques 
Garaud as Independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning of 
“independent” as defined in the Code for the period 1 January 2015 to  
31 December 2015.
The Board also carefully reviews any actual or potential conflicts 
of interest that may arise due to the commercial interests of Non-
Executive Directors and they are required to make a declaration in 
respect of any such situations. The Board can confirm that no new 
conflicts of interest arose in the year. As is noted in their respective 
biographies, Cathrin Petty is an employee of JP Morgan and Russ 
Cummings is an employee of Imperial Innovations. For these reasons, 
Russ Cummings and Cathrin Petty are considered by the Board not to 
be independent. Paul Edick is also considered not to be independent 
as his wife has been employed as the Group’s Chief Commercial 
Officer since 15 September 2014.
The Code indicates that a tenure of more than nine years as a  
Non-Executive Director could be relevant to a determination of 
independence. As of 1 August 2015 Tim Corn had served nine years as 
a Non-Executive Director. Nonetheless, as he has no business, financial 
or other connections with the Group beyond his directorship (except 
for the historic share option awards referred to above) it is considered 
that his independence is not compromised by his length of tenure and 
the Board is satisfied that he remains independent in character and 
judgement. It is confirmed that none of the other Independent  
Non-Executive Directors have served for more than nine years.
The Board further confirms that Dr Francesco Granata was 
independent upon his appointment.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 43 The Group’s primary risk control systems are as follows:
Management structure
 — There is a management structure with clear lines of responsibility 
and accountability. Employees are recruited when they have the 
appropriate skills and experience to perform their intended roles.
 — The Board sets the overall strategy and reviews the performance 
of the Group.
 — The Group’s Senior Management Team, chaired by the  
Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for day to day operations.
 — Other team members comprise the Chief Financial Officer,  
Senior Vice President R&D, Chief Commercial Officer,  
Chief Business Officer, Vice President Human Resources,  
and General Counsel. This team meets weekly. 
 
Written policies and procedures
 — There are documented quality procedures which ensure 
regulatory compliance. Regular reviews take place to ensure 
standards are maintained and the Company is fully prepared for 
a regulatory inspection. The Vice President, Quality Assurance 
and her team monitor internal and external (Contract Research 
Organisation and Contract Manufacturing Organisation) 
compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice, Good Clinical 
Practice, and Good Laboratory Practice and organise training for 
employees.
 — The Vice President, Global Compliance Officer maintains policies 
which relate to healthcare compliance, including but not limited to 
the Group’s Whistleblowing policy (which enables employees to 
communicate concerns regarding improper activity to a trusted 
individual who is not their line manager or a member of the senior 
management team), the Group’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
policy, and the Group’s privacy and data protection policies.
 — There are controls in place which determine how financial 
information is validated, consolidated and reviewed.
 — There are specific controls on expenditure. Material investments 
or capital expenditure must be approved by the Board. Normal 
expenditure is controlled by setting limits which are determined 
by the CEO and CFO within a general framework approved by the 
Board.
 — Detailed management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis 
and provided to the Board. Accompanying reports will explain 
any variances between these results and the budget.
 — The R&D Committee meets on a weekly basis to review 
performance of the various clinical trials and implement action 
plans to prevent delays.
 — The Patents Committee meets regularly to assess the scope of 
protection provided by pending and granted patents, organise 
the defence of granted patents, and plan new filings where 
appropriate. This group also manages registered trade marks.
 — There are physical and electronic procedures in place to ensure 
the security and integrity of data and confidential information.
 — An established policy exists for share dealing by employees or 
connected persons.
 — The Health and Safety Policy is maintained and reviewed by the 
Health and Safety Committee.
 — There is a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market 
Abuse Directive, comprising the Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, and the Head of Corporate Communications. 
The Chief Business Officer under the direction of this Committee 
maintains an Insider List recording employees and external 
parties who may have access to inside information. Individuals 
are notified of their addition to and removal from the list and are 
appraised of their responsibilities.
No failure of controls or breach of internal policies was recorded during 
the year to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report.
Re-election
All Directors have service contracts which are capable of termination 
on giving a fixed period of notice. In the case of the Executive Directors 
this notice period is six months and in the case of the Non-Executive 
Directors and Chairman it is three months.
All Directors are subject to re-election by Shareholders on an annual basis.
Accountability
The Board acknowledges its duty to present a fair, balanced  
and understandable view of the Group’s position and prospects.  
A description of the Group’s business model is contained in the 
Strategic report. The Statement of Directors’ responsibilities sets out 
information regarding the Directors’ responsibility to prepare financial 
statements. The Independent Auditors’ report includes a statement  
by the Auditor on its reporting responsibilities.
The role of the Audit Committee is set out in detail in the Audit 
Committee report.
The Board is responsible for determining the significant risks which the 
Group is prepared to take in order to attain its strategic objectives, and 
keeps the risk management procedures and internal controls of the 
business under regular review. The Board confirms that it is satisfied 
that the current procedures and controls are sufficient to ensure 
compliance with the Code.
After taking advice from the Audit Committee, the Board is able to 
confirm that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced, and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for Shareholders to judge the Group’s strategy, business model, 
position and performance.
Viability statement
The Company prepares a three year budget which was reviewed  
and approved by the Board at its meeting on 8 December 2015.  
The budget pack also contains a sensitivity analysis which allows the 
Board to assess the potential financial impact of certain significant 
potential scenarios which might arise. This includes the possibility of 
negative clinical results for the pivotal phase III cat allergy treatment 
study. This process informs the Viability Statement which the Board 
gives on page 37 of this report.
Risk management system
A description of the risk management system is set out in the Strategic 
report. The system is designed to manage risks, not to eliminate them 
completely, and can only provide a reasonable degree of assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. Inherent in the concept of 
reasonable assurance is the recognition that the cost of a control 
procedure should not exceed its anticipated benefits. The principal risks 
facing the Group are set out in the Strategic report.
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls systems, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls and has found them to be effective.
Internal controls
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s financial controls on  
an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board where 
improvements are required. The efficacy of control systems are 
reviewed by the full Board as required by the FRC Guidance on  
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and  
Business Reporting.
Corporate governance continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 44 Audit and Risk Committee report 
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Circassia’s Audit and 
Risk Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Audit and Risk Committee is the key independent oversight 
Committee at Circassia. It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management framework and internal controls.
This report sets out how the Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”). It also contains a summary of the activities of the Committee 
throughout the year.
Lota S Zoth 
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
11 March 2016
Responsibilities
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the 
financial statements of the Group, and for reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal control systems and risk management systems, 
including reviewing its risk profile.
Accordingly, the Committee performs a detailed review of the interim 
and annual financial statements, considering whether the accounting 
policies have been applied properly and consistently and whether the 
disclosures made in the Annual report and accounts are compliant 
with financial reporting standards, and with corporate governance and 
regulatory requirements.
The Committee also manages the relationship with the external 
Auditors on behalf of the Board. It monitors the independence of 
the Auditor and reviews the effectiveness of the audit procedure. 
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding 
the appointment of the external Auditors and reviews their terms 
of engagement. The Committee has access to the services of the 
external Auditors and, if necessary, may appoint external accounting 
and legal advisers to assist it with its work.
A significant development during the year related to healthcare 
compliance. Following the acquisition of Aerocrine, the Group now 
markets approved devices to healthcare professionals in a number 
of markets around the world. Prior to the acquisition, Aerocrine 
had developed policies and procedures to ensure compliance with 
healthcare laws and regulations concerning the sale of such products 
and following the integration into the Group additional resources have 
been applied to this area. An experienced compliance professional was 
appointed as Vice President, Global Compliance Officer in October 
2015. The VP, Global Compliance Officer has a direct reporting line to 
the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and will provide updates in 
this area to her.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
website. They cover issues such as membership and the frequency of  
meetings, together with requirements for a quorum and the right  
to attend meetings. The duties of the Committee as set out in  
the terms of reference include financial and regulatory reporting; 
internal controls; internal audit; external audit; risk management;  
and reporting responsibilities.
Remuneration
The Board has adopted a remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders at the 2015 AGM which it believes is sufficient to attract, 
retain, and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Group 
successfully, but which does not result in payment of more than is 
necessary for this purpose. A significant proportion of Executive 
Directors’ pay is linked to corporate and individual performance. Full 
details of the policy are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
Relations with Shareholders
Dialogue with Shareholders
The Board maintains regular communication with Shareholders. 
Meetings between material Shareholders and the Executive Directors 
take place throughout the year. The Chairman and Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and other Directors are available to meet with 
major Shareholders on request.
All meetings with Shareholders are held in a manner which ensures 
price sensitive information which has not been made available to 
Shareholders generally is protected from disclosure.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer give annual 
and six-monthly presentations to institutional investors, analysts, and 
the media. These presentations are available on the website. Annual 
and Interim reports and all press releases are also published on the 
website as are the terms of reference of the three Board committees. 
Paper copies of the report and accounts are mailed to those 
Shareholders who have elected to receive them.
The Directors receive a report from the Corporate Communications 
department at each Board Meeting giving information on material 
changes in shareholdings and collating feedback from the Company’s 
brokers and investors.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM provides an opportunity for all Shareholders to meet Board 
members and have the opportunity to ask about the proposed 
resolutions and the business in general.
Notice of the AGM is posted to Shareholders not less than 20 working 
days prior to the date of the AGM and is also available to Shareholders 
on the website at www.circassia.com. The letter accompanying 
the Notice will include details of the proposed resolutions and an 
explanation of their content.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast for, against, or abstaining 
from each resolution will be disclosed. Results of voting are announced 
to the market and posted on the website as soon as possible after  
the AGM.
The Group does not currently consider it appropriate to introduce 
mandatory poll voting on all resolutions put to the Shareholders but  
will keep this position under review.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 45 Financial reporting
During the year to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report, 
the Committee reviewed the interim management statements, the 
Interim report and accounts for the period ended 30 June 2015 and 
the preliminary announcement and Annual report and accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2015.
Significant accounting matters
The Committee considered the following key accounting issues, 
judgements and disclosures during the course of the year:
 — Accounting for acquisition costs;
 — Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units and testing for 
impairment;
 — Measuring the fair value of awards under share option schemes 
and the related accounting treatment; 
 — Recognition of deferred tax assets.
Membership
The names of the members of the Audit Committee, their dates of 
appointment, and the number of meetings attended during the year are 
set out in the table below:
Member Date of appointment
Meetings 
attended (held)
C Petty
 1
21 February 2014 1 (1)
T Corn 21 February 2014 4 (4)
J-J Garaud 21 February 2014 3 (4)
L S Zoth 27 February 2015 3 (3)
1
 Resigned from the Committee 27 February 2015
The first Committee meeting of the year was chaired by Cathrin 
Petty. At the end of that meeting Ms Petty stepped down and was 
succeeded as Chair by Lota S Zoth.
The Code provides that all members of the Audit and Risk Committee 
should be Independent Non-Executive Directors. Cathrin Petty is not 
considered by the Board to be independent and so for the period to 
27 February 2015 the Company did not comply with the provisions of 
the Code in this regard. However, following the appointment of Ms Lota 
Zoth as the new Chair of the Audit Committee on 27 February 2015 the 
Company has complied with this requirement as Ms Zoth is considered 
to be independent.
Ms Zoth has significant recent and relevant financial experience. She 
is a Non-Executive Director, Compensation Committee Member and 
the Audit Committee Chair at Hyperion Therapeutics Inc and NewLink 
Genetics Corporation. She is also a Non-Executive Director and the 
Audit Committee Chair at Orexigen Therapeutics Inc., She was also 
Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President at MedImmune, LLC 
from 2004 to 2007 .
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.  
The CEO attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chair. 
The Chair of the Committee meets with the external Auditors at least 
once a year in the absence of management.
A summary of the matters considered by the Committee since the  
last financial statements is shown in the table below and explained  
in further detail in the subsequent text:
Corporate governance continued
Area of review Activities undertaken
Financial reporting Review of the interim and full year results. 
Consideration of whether the Annual report is fair, balanced, and understandable.  
Review of the external Auditors’ reports on the interim and full year results. 
Review of significant accounting issues (see below). 
Review of anticipated changes in accounting standards and their impact.  
Review of the viability statement and going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements.´
External Auditor Review of external Auditors’ independence. 
Review of Auditors compliance with ethical and professional guidance on audit partner rotation. Assess 
effectiveness of audit process. 
Recommend re-appointment of Auditors.
Risk management and  
internal control
Review of risk, risk management systems, internal controls, and anti-corruption and anti-bribery procedures. 
Review of internal compliance monitoring.
Governance Review of the Committee’s terms of reference.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 46 The new scheme is split into two categories: one for senior 
management and one for other employees. Under both categories, 
the awards are split between two tranches. Tranche A vesting is 
subject to market performance conditions related to total shareholder 
return (TSR). Tranche B vesting is subject to non-market performance 
conditions related to period of service and achievement of set 
milestones in drug development programmes.
Historically the Group calculated the IFRS 2 charge using the Black 
Scholes model. This model was not sophisticated enough to incorporate 
the uncertainties inherent in market based performance obligations. 
A Monte-Carlo valuation model designed by New Bridge Street is now 
being used to calculate the charge relating to the awards subject to 
market conditions, and the Black Scholes model for awards that are 
not subject to market conditions.
In the current year, 3.0 million (2014: 2.4 million) share options were 
granted to employees, resulting in a larger total charge to the income 
statement in the year of £2.7 million (2014: £1.7 million).
Recognition of deferred tax assets
IAS 12 Income taxes sets out four criteria for consideration in assessing 
the probability that taxable profit will be available against which the 
unused tax losses can be utilised. These are:
a.  whether the entity has sufficient taxable temporary differences 
relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity, 
which will result in taxable amounts against which the unused tax 
losses or unused tax credits can be utilised before they expire
b.  whether it is probable that the entity will have taxable profits before 
the unused tax losses or unused tax credits expire
c.  whether the unused tax losses result from identifiable causes which 
are unlikely to recur
d.  whether tax planning opportunities (see paragraph 30) are available 
to the entity that will create taxable profit in the period in which the 
unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.
In the past, deferred tax assets ohave not been recognised on the 
pre-existing Circassia business because none of the above conditions 
applied. In the context of IAS 12, the existence of a history of losses 
provides evidence that future taxable profits are not “probable” and 
strong evidence of future profitability would be required to overcome 
the presumption that the related deferred tax assets should not be 
recognised. Thus for Circassia Ltd, which has brought forward tax 
losses of £79.4 million no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
In the case of acquired businesses, however, there are other 
considerations. On a standalone basis neither Aerocrine AB or Prosonix 
Ltd would recognise a deferred tax asset for the same reasons as 
the pre-existing Circassia business. However, as a consequence of 
acquisition accounting, fair values are recognised on intangible assets 
against which deferred tax liabilities need to be established. Deferred tax 
liabilities arise as a consequence of taxable temporary timing differences 
on the fair value adjustments. The fair value adjustments in the purchase 
price allocation exercise carried out by valuation specialists in effect 
represent future profit making capacity. Therefore, if these profits are 
likely to arise in the same jurisdictions and entities as the losses, there is 
a basis for recognising a deferred tax asset up to at most the value of the 
deferred tax liability. Calculation of the deferred tax liability is based on 
fair values which themselves are subject to a high degree of judgement. 
Note 32 sets out the fair value adjustments for Aerocrine. 
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the review of the Group’s risk 
management framework and the level of risk which is acceptable in 
order to achieve its strategic objectives. The Committee, on behalf of 
the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the risk management 
framework and system of internal controls and reports to the Board on 
their suitability and efficacy annually.
In order to discharge its duties in this respect, the Committee receives 
and reviews reports from the Group’s management team.
Acquisition accounting for Aerocrine and Prosonix
Following the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix in June 2015, the 
Company is required to comply with the accounting and reporting 
requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The core principle of 
this standard is that an acquirer of a business recognises the assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair values and 
discloses information that enables users to evaluate the nature and 
financial effects of the acquisition.
Valuation specialists were retained to carry out a purchase price 
allocation (PPA) exercise for both acquisitions. They included in their 
valuations fair values for intangible assets such as technology and 
IPR&D for Prosonix and customer relationships and technology for 
Aerocrine. The fair values at the time of the acquisition are set out in 
note 32 to the accounts.
Note 13 sets out the assumptions used in the fair valuation of the 
intangibles at the year end. 
The fair values of these intangible assets in particular are subject to  
a high degree of judgement.
Accounting for acquisition costs
In June 2015, the Group completed an offer and placement of new 
shares for the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix. The total cost 
of external advisers in relation to the share offer and the acquisitions 
was £12.8 million. Of this £4.0 million was recognised in the income 
statement and £8.8 million against the share premium account.
Under IFRS, incremental costs that are directly attributable to an equity 
transaction that would have been avoided had the equity instruments 
not been issued are accounted for through the share premium 
account. Any acquisition related costs (for example due diligence) must 
be expensed in the income statement.
As a result of these transactions, there is a risk that costs recognised in 
the income statement may be mis-stated.
Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units and testing for 
impairment
In line with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the carrying value of goodwill 
was allocated to cash generating units (CGU) and the carrying value of 
each CGU including the allocated goodwill tested for impairment.
Cash generating units are the smallest group of assets that 
independently generate cash flow and whose cash flow is largely 
independent of the cash flows generated by other assets. These 
have been defined as the pre-existing Circassia business (i.e. allergy 
business) prior to the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix; Aerocrine 
(NIOX
®
 business) and Prosonix (Respiratory business).
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Aerocrine was allocated to both 
the pre-existing Circassia cash generating unit and the Aerocrine cash 
generating unit. This is because both cash generating units benefit 
from the same sales force selling to largely the same customers. The 
assumptions used in allocation of the goodwill are set out in note 12 to 
the accounts. This estimate is subject to a high degree of judgement. 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Prosonix was allocated entirely to 
Prosonix. Goodwill allocated to each cash generating unit is disclosed 
in note 12 of the financial statements.
Note 12 sets out the assumptions used to calculate the value in use 
for each CGU. As the value in use was significantly greater than the 
carrying value of each CGU, it was concluded that no impairment of 
the related goodwill was required. The calculations include estimates 
which are subject to a high degree of judgement. 
Measuring the fair value of awards under new share option
schemes and the related accounting treatment
The Group historically maintained an EMI approved share option 
scheme. Last year the Remuneration Committee approved the creation 
of a new Performance Service Plan (PSP) scheme. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 47 PwC undertook non-audit services for the Group in the course of the 
year to 31 December 2015 which are summarised in the table below. 
These services were provided in compliance with the policy outlined 
above and no conflicts of interest were considered to have arisen.
Committee approval 
required? Nature of work
Fees  
£’000
No Acquisition fees 214
No Taxation 10
The total fees paid to the Auditor are shown in note 7 of the financial 
statements. Services were provided during the year in connection 
with the Placing and Open Offer and the acquisition of Aerocrine 
and Prosonix. The Committee believes that the use of PwC for 
this transaction was appropriate in the circumstances and that 
independence was preserved as the nature of the non–audit services 
was such that the external Auditor was best placed to perform this 
work due to their skills and experience, and the fees paid were 
insignificant in the context of the overall revenues earned by PwC.
In summary, the Committee confirms that the Group has received an 
independent audit service in the year to 31 December 2015 and up to 
11 March 2016.
Audit partner rotation
PwC adheres to a rotation policy which complies with the ethical 
standards of the Audit Practices Board (the “APB”) and the audit 
partner is rotated every five years. Simon Ormiston, the current  
audit partner was appointed for the year ended 31 December 2014 
and is not due for rotation until completion of the year ended  
31 December 2018.
Tendering
PwC has been the Company’s Auditor since the year ended  
31 December 2007 . The Committee is actively monitoring the  
EU audit directive and ongoing discussions in this area at the Financial 
Reporting Council, the EU and the Competition Commission. In view of 
the changes to the regulatory requirements relating to mandatory audit 
tendering, the Committee expects to conduct an audit tender at the 
latest prior to contracting the 2017 year-end audit. 
The Company has complied during the financial year under review and 
up to the date of this report with the provisions of the Statutory Audit 
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) 
Order 2014.
Reappointment
Each year the Committee considers the reappointment of the external 
Auditor and makes a recommendation to the Board. In doing so 
the Committee considers the effectiveness and independence of 
the external Auditor. The judgement of the Committee is that PwC 
continues to deliver an effective and independent service.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be reappointed as the Company’s 
Auditor for a further year. This recommendation has been accepted  
by the Board.
The Committee will continue to monitor the changes proposed by the 
UK Competition Commission and European Commission in respect of 
Auditor services and re-tendering.
Committee evaluation
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out 
in December 2015 as part of the process of evaluating Board 
effectiveness.
Lota S Zoth 
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
11 March 2016
 
The Committee continues to assess what is an acceptable level of risk 
in key areas, and the best strategy for mitigating those risks given the 
cost and time constraints which exist.
During the year, as is required by the 2014 edition of the Code, the 
Committee performed a detailed assessment of the principal risks faced 
by the Group and how these are managed and mitigated. An annual 
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s monitoring and review systems 
was carried out at the December Committee meeting.
Whistleblowing
A confidential whistleblowing procedure exists to enable employees to 
raise concerns regarding possible improprieties in relation to financial 
or other matters. This procedure has been communicated to all staff. 
Reports can be made through an online tool or a telephone helpline 
operated by a third party provider. The Committee has reviewed these 
arrangements and is satisfied that the current procedure allows for 
proportionate and independent investigation of such disclosures, and  
for appropriate follow up actions to be taken. In accordance with the 
current policy, concerned employees may raise matters directly with  
the Vice President, Global Compliance Officer.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
The Group has an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy which has 
been communicated to all staff. This policy ensures full compliance with 
the UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corruption Practices Act and 
other major anti-corruption legislation. The policy extends to carrying 
out due diligence on new key business partners who are judged to be 
acting on behalf of the Group in high risk areas.
Internal audit
This year the Committee considered whether there is a need for an 
internal audit function and concluded that, given the scale of operations 
at this time, it is not currently necessary. The Board accepted this 
recommendation. This decision will be kept under review.
External audit
The Group’s external Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), is 
engaged to express its opinion on the Group’s financial statements.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external audit process is reviewed annually 
by the Committee. This review encompasses an examination of the 
independence, qualifications, capabilities, and remuneration of the 
Auditor. If issues are identified which may affect the effectiveness of the 
process then actions will be agreed. No such issues were identified in 
the year to 31 December 2015 or up to the date of this report.
At the end of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2015 the 
Committee formally evaluated the performance of PwC. To conduct 
this evaluation the Committee completed a questionnaire to assess 
robustness of the audit process, quality of its delivery, quality of 
reporting, and quality of the individuals and service. Moreover, the 
Committee takes into account the quality of its interactions with the 
Auditor in forming a view on their effectiveness.
Independence
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and 
objectivity of the external Auditor. Each year the external Auditor 
confirms its policies for ensuring its independence and provides 
the Committee with written confirmation that they continue to be 
independent.
The Committee pays careful regard to whether non-audit work is 
carried out by the Auditor so as to ensure that the provision of such 
additional services does not impair its independence or objectivity.
A formal process exists for approving the use of the Auditor for non-
audit work. There is no automatic restriction on the Auditor providing 
such services, but the Auditor should not be appointed to provide non-
audit services which might put the Auditor in the position of auditing 
its own work or create a mutual interest between the Group and the 
Auditor or result in the Auditor acting as an advocate, manager, or 
employee of the Group.
Corporate governance continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 48 The Committee is empowered to obtain external professional advice to 
assist in the performance of its duties. During the year the Committee 
has retained the services of executive search firm Spencer Stuart as 
explained below.
Activities
The principal activities during the year were:
 — Review of the structure, size and composition of the Board 
(including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and 
diversity);
 — Appointments of Board members and Committee members; and
 — Annual performance evaluation of the Board, its members and its 
Committees.
The executive search firm Spencer Stuart was retained in 2014 to 
assist in the identification of new independent Non-Executive Directors. 
This process culminated in the appointment of Ms Lota S Zoth on  
9 February 2015. 
Mr Marvin S Samson was appointed on 8 December 2015.
Appointment procedure
There is a formal and transparent procedure by which new Directors 
are appointed to the Board. Suitable candidates are proposed either by 
existing Board members or by an external search firm. The Committee 
will then assess whether the candidate has the requisite skills and 
experience for the role, sufficient time to perform it, and that their 
appointment will preserve or improve the balance of skills, experience 
and knowledge of the Board.
The Committee worked closely with Spencer Stuart, a well-reputed 
executive search firm, at the beginning of the year in order to finalise the 
recruitment of Ms Lota S Zoth. In this instance, a list of candidates was 
prepared by the search firm and reviewed by the Committee. From this 
long list the Committee produced a short list of candidates for interview. 
At the conclusion of this process the Committee recommended to the 
Board that Lota Zoth be appointed.
Mr Samson was shortlisted following proposals by existing Board 
members and following interviews was recommended by the 
Nomination Committee for appointment to the Board.
Ms Zoth and Mr Samson have been appointed under service  
contracts which provide for a notice period of three months.
Diversity
The Company has an Equal Treatment, Equal Opportunities and 
Diversity policy which extends to the Board. The appointment 
procedures described above were carried out in full compliance  
with this policy.
Succession Planning
The Board is satisfied that appropriate planning has taken place  
for the orderly succession of Directors and senior management.
Chairman’s commitments
In accordance with provision B.3.1 of the Code, it is confirmed that 
the Chairman’s other significant commitments are as disclosed in the 
biography which appears in the Corporate governance report.
Committee evaluation
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out 
in December 2015 as part of the process of evaluating Board 
effectiveness.
Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
11 March 2016
Nomination Committee report 
 
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassia’s Nomination 
Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015. The key 
objective of the Committee is to ensure the Board is made up of a 
range of individuals who together have the appropriate mixture of skills 
and experience to lead the Group.
During the year the Committee considered and made 
recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of Ms 
Lota S Zoth and Mr Marvin S Samson as Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee also considered and recommended the 
appointment of Lota Zoth as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee in 
the place of Cathrin Petty, and to the Remuneration Committee in place 
of Mr Paul Edick.
There follows a summary of the activities of the Committee.
Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
11 March 2016
Responsibilities
The Committee must review the size, structure, and composition of the 
Board and the Committees evaluating the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, and diversity of the Board as a whole. On the basis of 
this evaluation it will then make recommendations to the Board on any 
appointments. As part of this process, the Committee will prepare a 
description of the skills, experience and other characteristics required, 
and identify through a transparent procedure, individuals who are 
capable of filling those roles.
The Committee also plans for the orderly succession of Directors 
to the Board and recommends to the Board the membership and 
chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the 
website.
Membership and meetings
Throughout the year the Committee comprised Dr Tim Corn,  
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, and Dr Francesco Granata, the Chairman. 
All members of the Nomination Committee (excluding the Chairman 
who was considered independent on appointment) were considered 
by the Board to be independent throughout this period. The 
Committee therefore complied with the requirements of the Code  
that a majority of its members are independent.
The Committee met three times during the year ended 31 December 
2015 and all members were present at each meeting. A summary of the 
composition and attendance of the Committee is as follows:
Member Date of appointment
Meetings 
attended (held)
Dr Francesco Granata 21 February 2014 2 (2)
Dr Tim Corn 21 February 2014 2 (2)
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 21 February 2014 1 (2) 
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. The 
Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 49 Annual statement
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassia’s 
Remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
This report will be presented for the consideration and approval  
of Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016.
This report complies with the regime set out in Part 4 to Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (as amended) (the Regulations), the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’) and the Listing Rules. Accordingly it consists 
of three parts: (i) an Annual statement which summarises the key issues 
and explains the business context in which the Committee’s main decisions 
were taken; (ii) an unaudited Directors’ remuneration policy report which 
describes the current and future executive remuneration policy, and which 
was approved by 99.57% of Shareholders at the AGM on 20 May 2015; and 
(iii) the Annual report on remuneration which sets out details of and rationale 
for the remuneration provided to the Group’s Directors during the 2015 
financial year. This latter report is subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy which was approved by the Shareholders 
at the last AGM, promotes the long-term sustainable success of the 
Group. It aims to reward Executive Directors for performance, and 
for delivery of Shareholder value judged against transparent and 
demanding criteria. As part of this policy a significant proportion of 
potential remuneration is linked to the achievement of corporate and 
individual performance indicators. 
The annual bonus plan for Executive Directors and management at 
Senior Vice President level, includes an element being deferred into 
shares for three years and subject to forfeiture. 
Share incentive arrangements have been in effect since 2014 and 
are intended to closely align the interests of the Executive Directors 
with those of Shareholders. The earliest date of vesting under these 
schemes falls three years after grant subject to the achievement of 
performance conditions. Details of the awards made under these 
schemes to the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual report 
on remuneration. In addition, the Company operates shareholding 
guidelines for Executive Directors and Senior Vice Presidents to  
further increase alignment with shareholders.
The Committee believes that the emphasis on performance-related 
pay, the use of bonus deferral, annual long-term incentive awards 
and mandatory share ownership guidelines, creates a clear focus on 
sustainable performance, avoids paying more than is necessary and 
maintains an ongoing alignment between Executive Directors and 
Shareholders. 
Performance and reward
The bonus arrangements for 2015 comprised an award of up to  
100% of salary linked to the achievement of annual developmental and 
operational goals. As described in the Strategic report, the Group has 
made significant progress in its clinical programmes, continued to build 
its commercial infrastructure with key management appointments and 
the recruitment of sales representatives, has completed the acquisition  
of Aerocrine and Prosonix and integrated these businesses into the 
Group, and has successfully defended the oppositions brought against 
its intellectual property rights.
As a result of strong corporate and individual performance the 
Committee determined annual bonus payments of 100% of salary  
for the Executive Directors. These will be paid in March 2016 as a 
combination of cash and deferred shares.
No long-term incentives were due to vest in relation to performance 
ending in 2015. 
The Committee is satisfied that the total variable pay outcome is a fair 
reflection of corporate and individual performance throughout 2015.
Application of policy for 2016
The Remuneration policy set out in this report was approved by 
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2015 and  
will be applied without changes in 2016.
The salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed with effect from 
1 January 2016 and increased in line with increases to the general 
workforce of 3%.
The annual fee for the Chairman, Dr Francesco Granata, will increase 
from £130,500 to £134,400. 
We welcome Shareholder feedback on these matters and hope 
that you will be able to support our policy and its application at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Marvin S Samson
Remuneration Committee Chairman
11 March 2016
Directors’ remuneration policy report (DRP)
The present policy was approved by a binding Shareholder vote at the 
AGM on 20 May 2015 and is therefore expected to remain in force until 
the AGM in 2018. There is no requirement to vote again on the policy 
this year as no changes are being proposed at this time, but the full 
policy has been included again this year for information only. The bar 
charts on page 57 have, however, been updated to reflect proposed 
2016 remuneration levels.
Remuneration philosophy 
The potential levels of remuneration have been set so that they are 
competitive against those comparator companies from which the 
Group will compete for talented individuals.
The Committee’s goal is to design and implement a remuneration 
policy which will support and reward Executive Directors for delivering 
the Group’s strategic objectives and ultimately creating value to 
Shareholders, whilst adhering to good corporate governance and 
reflecting best practice. To achieve this, the balance of remuneration 
is focused on variable performance-related pay. In particular, to reflect 
the long-term nature of the Group’s development pipeline, variable 
pay is more heavily weighted towards long-term sustainable value 
creation through the use of share incentive plans. When combined 
with significant levels of share ownership guidelines, this creates an 
alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders with a longer 
term view.
The Committee annually reviews the operation of the variable incentive 
plans to ensure they are operating within an acceptable risk profile 
and that they do not inadvertently encourage any economic, social or 
governance issues.
Remuneration policy
The total remuneration for each Executive Director is made up of the 
following elements:
 — Salary;
 — Benefits;
 — Annual bonus;
 — Long-term incentive awards; and
 — Pension.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply to the bonus and long-
term incentive arrangements in specific circumstances as determined 
appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee report
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 50 Salary Benefits Annual bonus
Purpose and link to strategy 
Provides fixed remuneration in-line with 
market rates that reflects the responsibilities 
of the role undertaken and the experience of 
the individual.
Purpose and link to strategy
Provides market competitive, yet cost- 
effective employment benefits.
Purpose and link to strategy
To incentivise and recognise execution of the 
business strategy and personal objectives on 
an annual basis.
Operation 
Set at an approximately mid-market level 
and reviewed annually taking into account 
individual responsibilities, performance, 
inflation, and market rates. The Committee 
will also consider the pay and employment 
conditions in the wider workforce when 
determining Executive Directors’ salaries. 
Salary increases are normally effective from  
1 January each year.
Salaries are periodically benchmarked against 
a relevant peer group of UK listed companies 
with similar market capitalisations and 
operations.
Operation 
For Executive Directors this includes private 
medical insurance, travel and life insurance.
Other employment benefits may be provided 
from time to time on similar terms as those of 
other employees.
If the Company introduces an all-employee 
share plan, Executive Directors will be eligible 
to participate on the same terms as other 
employees.
If an Executive Director is based outside the 
UK additional benefits and assistance with 
relocation may be provided which reflect local 
market norms or legislation.
Operation 
Annual bonus performance targets are set 
at the start of the year by the Board and 
performance against objectives is assessed 
by the Remuneration Committee.
Bonuses will be paid as a mix of cash and 
deferred shares. Until the share ownership 
guidelines are reached, the bonus will be 
payable as 50% cash and 50% shares.
Thereafter, the bonus will be payable as 75% 
cash and 25% shares.
Bonus shares are deferred for three years 
from the date of the award and are subject to 
forfeiture.
Recovery and withholding provisions will 
apply in the event of mis-statement of results, 
error in performance calculation or gross 
misconduct
A dividend equivalent, if payable, will be 
payable in cash when the shares vest.
Maximum potential value 
The current base salaries are set out in the 
implementation of policy section of the Annual 
report on remuneration.
There is no formal maximum limit, but 
increases are generally in line with those of 
the wider workforce.
Larger increases may be permitted to reflect  
a change in responsibilities or a significant 
increase in the scale or complexity of the role.
Maximum potential value
There is no formal maximum limit as the value 
of insured benefits will vary from year to year 
based on the cost from third-party providers.
Maximum potential value
The maximum payable for all Executive 
Directors is 100% of salary.
Performance metrics
The overall performance of the individual 
and Company is a key determinant for salary 
increases.
Performance metrics
None.
Performance metrics
Research and development, business 
development, financial and operational targets 
are set at the start of the year by the Board. 
The weighting for each performance measure 
is determined by the Remuneration Committee 
and may vary for each Executive Director 
according to their role and reflecting their 
objectives for the year.
Details of the performance measures for the 
current year are provided in the Annual report 
on remuneration.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 51 Remuneration Committee report continued
Performance share plan (PSP) Pension
Purpose and link to strategy
To align the interests of management with Shareholder interests and 
to enhance retention of staff.
To incentivise and recognise achievement of longer term business 
objectives and sustained superior Shareholder value creation.
Purpose and link to strategy
To provide a competitive and cost-effective, level of retirement 
provision.
Operation
Conditional awards or options from the Performance Share Plan are 
granted annually. The awards vest provided certain performance 
conditions, which have been approved by the Board, are achieved 
over a period of at least three years.
Performance targets are set at the start of each performance period.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply for reasons of mis- 
statement of results, error in performance calculation or gross 
misconduct.
Operation
Executive Directors are eligible to join a defined contribution pension 
scheme.
Alternatively a cash supplement (or a combination of contribution and 
cash) can be made.
Maximum potential value
Annual awards of up to the following percentage each year are 
granted to Executive Directors:
 — Chief Executive Officer 150% of salary
 — Other 125% of salary
In special circumstances (such as a recruitment) an award of up to 
300% of salary is permitted. 
Dividend equivalents may be payable on vested awards. 
Maximum potential value
The maximum contribution, cash supplement (or combination thereof) 
payable by the Company is 15% of salary.
Performance metrics
Awards are currently subject to a combination of relative Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and clinical progression timelines for 
Executive Directors.
No more than 25% of the maximum award will vest for achieving the 
threshold performance level.
The weighting of these performance measures, the choice of 
comparators for relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and/or 
the inclusion of additional performance measures will be reviewed 
annually by the Committee, reflecting the strategic objectives and 
priorities of the following three year performance period.
If the Committee determines a material change to the performance 
measures used for future awards is required to reflect a change in 
strategy, this would only be made following appropriate dialogue with 
the Company’s major Shareholders.
Performance metrics
None.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 52 Share ownership guidelines
Purpose and link to strategy
To align Executives with Shareholders and provide an ongoing incentive for continued performance.
Operation
Only shares which are fully owned with no outstanding vesting criteria count towards the shareholding guideline. 
Executive Directors will be required to retain half of any post-tax awards which vest under long-term incentive plans, until the share ownership 
guideline has been satisfied.
Maximum potential value
Executive Directors are required to build and maintain the following minimum level of shareholding:
 — Chief Executive Officer 150% of salary
 — Other Executive Directors 100% of salary
Performance metrics
None.
 
The Committee operates the annual bonus and Performance Share Plan (PSP), in accordance with their rules, and where relevant, the Listing 
Rules. To maintain an efficient administrative process, the Committee retains the following discretions relating to remuneration:
a. the eligibility to participate in the plans;
b. the timing of grant of awards and any payments;
c.  the size of awards and payments (subject to the maximum limits set out in the policy table above and the respective plan rules);
d.  the determination of whether the performance conditions have been met;
e.  determining a good or bad leaver under the terms of the plan;
f. dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group;
g.  adjustments required in certain capital events such as rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends; and
h.  the annual review of performance conditions for the annual bonus plan and PSP .
In certain exceptional circumstances, such as a material acquisition/divestment of a Group business, which mean the original performance 
conditions are no longer appropriate, the Committee may adjust the targets, alter weightings or set different measures as necessary, to ensure 
the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Historic awards
Awards which were granted prior to the Company’s IPO are set out in the Annual report on remuneration (ARR).
These awards remain eligible to vest, based on their original terms and will be disclosed in the relevant ARR as required.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 53 Remuneration Committee report continued
Performance measures 
The rationale behind each performance measure currently used in the Performance Share Plan and how it is calculated is as follows:
Performance measure Rationale
Relative TSR performance Recognises outperformance and delivery of relative value to Shareholders
Relative total Shareholder return is currently measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment trusts (the 
‘Index’)). This was chosen as a comparator group because it represents similar sized companies, is subject to 
less volatility than a smaller peer comparator group and is transparent for both Shareholders and participants.
The Committee will review on an annual basis the continued appropriateness of the comparator group.
Clinical and key strategic 
business objectives
Recognises the importance of R&D to future business growth
The growth of the Company and therefore delivery of value to investors is dependent on achievement of certain 
key clinical timelines.
 
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of the Company’s clinical and strategic business targets. These targets are agreed by the 
Board and selected because of their importance in value creation for Shareholders. Objectives are weighted for Executives in proportion to the 
degree of responsibility for control and achievement of that objective. The weightings are agreed by the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration on recruitment
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package of new Executive Directors. Each element of an Executive Director’s 
remuneration is set out below:
Salary Base salary will be determined based on the role, experience of the individual and the current market rate.
It may be considered necessary to appoint a new Executive Director on a below market salary (e.g. to reflect 
limited plc board experience). In such circumstances phased increases above those of the wider workforce 
may be required over an appropriate time period, to bring the salary to the desired market level, subject to the 
continued development in the role.
Benefits Benefits provided would be in line with those of current Executive Directors.
Where required to meet business needs, reasonable relocation support will be provided.
In addition if it becomes necessary to appoint a new Executive Director from outside the UK, additional benefits 
may be provided to reflect local market norms or legislation.
Annual bonus The ongoing annual bonus maximum will be in line with that outlined in the policy table for existing Executive 
Directors, pro-rated to reflect the period of service.
Depending on the timing or nature of an appointment it may be necessary to set different initial performance 
measures and targets for the first year of appointment.
Long-term incentive 
awards
PSP awards are granted in line with the policy outlined for existing Executives. Any ongoing annual award is 
limited to that of the current Chief Executive Officer.
An award may be made shortly following an appointment (provided the Company is not in a prohibited period).
For internal appointments, existing awards will continue on their original terms.
Pension A company contribution or cash supplement up to the maximum as outlined for current Executive Directors.
Buy-out awards To enable the recruitment of exceptional talent, the Committee may determine that the buy-out of remuneration 
forfeit from a prior employer is necessary. Where possible, any replacement remuneration will be offered on a like-
for-like basis with the forfeited awards and may be in the form of cash or shares and depending whether the award 
forgone has similar performance conditions, may or may not be subject to performance conditions. The value of 
any buy-out will be limited to the value of remuneration forfeit. Where appropriate, such awards will be granted 
under existing share plans, however, the Remuneration Committee will have discretion to make use of the flexibility 
to make awards under exemptions in the Listing Rules.
 
Fee levels for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be set at a level that is consistent with those of existing Non-Executive Directors.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 54 Exit payment policy
The Group does not have a policy of fixed term employment contracts, however, all Directors put themselves forward for re-election at the  
Annual General Meeting. Notice periods for Executive Directors’ employment contracts are six months and three months for the Chairman’s and  
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment from either party.
The following policies and payments apply in the event that an Executive Director’s employment is terminated.
Remuneration 
element
Exit payment policy
Current service 
contracts
Termination by notice: six months.
Redundancy: six months annual salary payable (reduced accordingly if part of the notice period is worked). 
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: no termination payment.
Future service contracts Termination by notice: up to 12 months’ notice, with a provision to make a payment in lieu of notice for base salary 
and benefits only. Any payment will be phased on a monthly basis and would be subject to mitigation, whereby the 
payment made can be reduced (including to zero) if appropriate alternative employment is found.
Redundancy: annual salary payable for the relevant notice period (reduced accordingly if part of the notice period is 
worked).
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: no termination payment.
Long-term incentives 
and deferred bonuses
PSP awards are governed by the Plan Rules as approved by Shareholders. Likewise, the deferred bonus awards 
are subject to the same leaver provisions. These are summarised below.
Termination by notice: unvested awards lapse on cessation.
Redundancy, retirement, ill health, injury or disability, transfer of employment outside of the Group or change of 
control, or any other reason the Committee determines: unvested awards will vest either on the normal vesting date 
or if the Board decides, immediately on the participant ceasing to be in employment. Awards will vest subject to the 
extent the performance condition has been met, as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Awards will be 
pro-rated for time, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Death: unvested awards will vest on the date of death. Awards will be pro-rated, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise.
Change of control: unvested awards will vest on the date of the takeover. Awards will vest subject to the extent the 
performance condition has been met, as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Awards will be pro-rated, 
unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: if an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before  
31 December, the bonus is forfeited. If notice is served between 1 January following the year in which the bonus 
was earned and the payment date, the employee may (as determined by the Remuneration Committee) receive  
the entire bonus payable in cash, subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, or any other reason the Committee determines:  
if the termination date falls during the financial year, pro-rated for service rendered and subject to performance.  
If it falls after the end of the financial year the bonus is payable in cash based on actual results on the normal bonus 
payment date.
Termination by notice: not normally paid, however, at the Committee’s discretion, if the termination date falls during 
the financial year, a bonus may be paid pro-rata for service rendered and subject to performance over the full 
financial year and normally paid on the normal payment date. If it falls after the end of the financial year bonus is 
payable based on actual results on the normal bonus payment date.
Benefits These will normally continue to apply until the termination date.
Pension Contributions by the Company will normally continue to apply until the termination date.
Additional payments The Committee will make payment of any statutory entitlements as necessary. In addition the Committee will retain 
the discretion to make settlement or to compromise a claim in connection with a termination of any Executive 
Directors as necessary.
Reasonable legal and outplacement costs will be met if deemed necessary.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 55 Service contracts
The following Executive Directors have service agreements with the Company which were effective from 18 March 2014 as follows:
Name Position Date of joining
Steven Harris Chief Executive Officer 19 May 2006
Rod Hafner Senior VP of R&D 1 March 2007
Julien Cotta Chief Financial Officer 5 January 2012
 
The notice period for each Executive Director is 6 months and all Executive and Non-Executive Directors put themselves forward for  
re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The key terms for the Letters of Appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out below:
Name Notice period Date of joining
Dr Francesco Granata 3 months 1 September 2013
Dr Tim Corn 3 months 1 August 2006
Russell Cummings 3 months 25 January 2007
Paul Edick 3 months 3 April 2013
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 3 months 1 November 2012
Cathrin Petty 3 months 8 March 2010
Charles Swingland 3 months 31 May 2006
Lota Zoth 3 months 9 February 2015
Marvin Samson 3 months 8 December 2015
 
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office.
Remuneration Committee report continued
 
Statement of consideration of employees’ pay and remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Company does not formally consult with employees on the matters of Executive Director remuneration. However, the Committee is made aware 
of employment conditions in the wider Group.
The same broad principles apply to the remuneration policy for both Executive Directors and the wider employee population. However, the 
remuneration for Executive Directors has a stronger emphasis on performance-related pay than for other employees. In particular the following 
approach is used:
 — Salaries, benefits and pensions are compared to appropriate market rates and set at approximately mid-market level with allowance for role, 
responsibilities and experience.
 — When setting salary levels for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers the salary increases provided to other employees and in 
particular those based in the UK.
 — An annual bonus plan is available to all employees and is based on business and individual performance.
 — Awards from the Performance Share Plan are made to all current employees including Executive Directors.
Scenarios
The charts set out for illustrative purposes only, what annual remuneration the Company expects the Directors to obtain if performance levels are 
below threshold, meet expectations or exceed the maximum targets.
The assumptions used in the calculations are set out below:
 — Fixed pay: this includes salary, pension and benefits.
 — Base salary effective 1 January 2016 and expected pension contribution has been used.
 — The actual monetary value of benefits received in 2015 have been used.
 — Expected: this includes salary, pension, benefits, annual bonus and PSP. This assumes that 70% of the annual bonus maximum will be 
payable for each of the Directors and 50% of PSP awards will vest.
 — Maximum: It is assumed that the maximum annual bonus would be payable and that the awards under the PSP vest in full.
 — No share price growth has been assumed.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 56 0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
CEO  
£’000
Senior VP R&D  
£’000
CFO  
£’000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,600
1,400
1,800
2,000
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
Scenarios
Expected Fixed
100%
288
47%
618
28%
25%
34%
849
29%
37%
Maximum
Fixed
Annual bonus
Long-term variable remuneration
Scenarios
Expected Fixed
100%
458
44%
1,034
27%
29%
32%
1,452
27%
41%
Maximum
Scenarios
Expected Fixed
100%
312
47%
670
28%
25%
34%
920
29%
37%
Maximum
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 57 Remuneration Committee report continued
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on fees payable to the Chairman. 
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of fees. The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making 
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and maximum
Chairman’s fee To attract and retain a high calibre individual 
with the requisite experience and knowledge.
The current fee is set out in the 
implementation of policy section of the Annual 
report on remuneration. There is no formal 
maximum.
Fees are reviewed on a periodic basis against 
those in similar sized companies to ensure 
they remain competitive and adequately 
reflect the time commitments and scope of 
the role.
Any increase in fee levels may be above that 
of the wider workforce in a particular year 
to reflect the periodic nature of any review 
and/or any change in responsibilities/time 
commitments.
The Chairman may also receive limited 
travel and/or hospitality related benefits in 
connection with the role.
Non-Executive Director fee To attract and retain high calibre individuals 
with the requisite experience and knowledge.
The current fee levels are set out in the 
implementation of policy section of the Annual 
report on remuneration. There is no formal 
maximum.
Fees are reviewed on a periodic basis against 
those in similar sized companies to ensure 
they remain competitive and adequately 
reflect the time commitments and scope of 
the role.
A Board fee is paid to each Non-Executive 
Director. Supplemental fees are paid to the 
Senior Independent Director and for the 
Chairing and membership of Committees to 
recognise the additional time commitments 
and responsibilities of these roles.
Any increase in fee levels may be above that 
of the wider workforce in a particular year 
to reflect the periodic nature of any review 
and/or any change in responsibilities/time 
commitments.
Non-Executive Directors may also receive 
limited travel and/or hospitality related 
benefits in connection with the role.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 58 Statement of consideration of Shareholders’ views
The Remuneration Committee will consider any Shareholder feedback received at the AGM and at meetings throughout the year, when reviewing 
the overall remuneration policy each year. The guidance from shareholder representative bodies is also considered on an ongoing basis.
More specifically the Committee will consult with major Shareholders when proposing any significant changes to the policy in the future. 
Annual report on remuneration 
This section of the Remuneration Committee report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the Regulations as amended, and 9.8.6R of 
the Listing Rules. The Annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory Shareholder vote at the AGM on 18 May 2016.
Composition
From 1 January 2015 to 9 February 2015, the Committee was made up of Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud (Chairman), Dr Tim Corn, and  
Mr Paul R Edick. Mr Edick was not considered to be independent and therefore, for this period the Committee did not comply with the 
requirement of the Code that all members of the Remuneration Committee be Independent Non-Executive Directors. On 9 February 2015  
Mr Edick was succeeded by Ms Lota S Zoth who is an Independent Non-Executive Director. The composition of the Committee therefore fully 
complied with the recommendations of the Code for the period from 9 February 2015 to 31 December 2015. The terms of reference of the 
Committee appear on the Company’s website. The Committee met three times during the year ended 31 December 2015. Each meeting  
was fully attended.
Responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for the following matters:
 — setting a remuneration strategy which is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company;
 — ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior employees reflects performance and delivery of Shareholder value;
 — agreeing the design and targets of share incentive plans which require Shareholder approval and monitoring the achievement of those targets;
 — deciding on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior employees, including any specific recruitment or retention terms;
 — making a recommendation to the Board in relation to the Chairman’s fees;
 — appointing external advisers where necessary.
Activities
A summary of the matters considered by the Committee in the course of the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows:
Meeting Agenda items
February Review of the salary levels and annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors. 
Review of remuneration for the Chairman.
Review of performance targets for annual PSP awards.
Approval of option awards for new employees.
May Review of PSP plan strategic and clinical targets.
Approval of option awards for new employees.
December Review and approval of annual bonus targets for 2016 for Executive Directors and Senior Vice Presidents.
 
Advisors
The Committee appointed New Bridge Street (NBS) (part of Aon plc) to advise it on the formulation of the Group’s remuneration policy. NBS is a 
signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free 
from undue influence. The fees to NBS in 2015 were £18,216 (2014: £26,940), which were mainly charged on the basis of hourly rates.  
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers on an annual basis.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 59 Committee evaluation
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out in December 2015 as part of the process of evaluating Board effectiveness.
Audited information
Total remuneration – year ended 31 December 2015
The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is set out in the table below. Total remuneration is the sum of 
emoluments plus pension contributions and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the year ended  
31 December 2015.
  
Salary  
or fees
5
  
£’000
Benefits
6
 
£’000
Bonus
7
  
£’000
Long-term 
incentives
8 
£’000
Pension
9
  
£’000
Total 
remuneration 
£’000
Executive Directors       
Steven Harris 2015 386 1 386 – 58 831
2014 375 2 420 675 56 1,528
Julien Cotta 2015 242 1 242 – 36 521
2014 235 2 313 – 35 585
Rod Hafner 2015 263 1 263 – 39 566
 2014 255 2 272 658 38 1,225
Non-Executive Directors
Francesco Granata 2015 138 – – – – 138
2014 133 – – – – 133
Tim Corn 2015 59 – – – – 59
2014 55 – – – – 55
Russell Cummings 2015
 1
42 – – – – 42
2014 38 – – – – 38
Paul R Edick 2015 43 – – – – 43
2014 50 – – – – 50
Jean-Jacques Garaud 2015 71 – – – – 71
2014 62 – – – – 62
Cathrin Petty 2015 45 – – – – 45
2014 51 – – – – 51
Lota Zoth 2015
 2
54 – – – – 54
2014 – – – – – –
Marvin Samson 2015
 3
3 – – – – 3
2014 – – – – – –
Charles Swingland 2015 43 – – – – 43
 2014
 4
 84 – – 675 6 765
Total 2015 1,389 3 891 – 133 2,416
Total 2014 1,338 6 1,005 2,008 135 4,492
 
1
  All fees for Russell Cummings are paid to Imperial Innovations Limited
2
 For the period 9 February 2015 to 31 December 2015
3
 For the period 8 December 2015 to 31 December 2015
4
 For the period from 1 January to 18 March 2014 as an Executive Director and thereafter as a Non-Executive Director
5
 This is the amount earned as salary or fees in the financial year
6
 This is the taxable value of benefits paid in respect of the financial year. The majority of these benefits consist of medical insurance and life assurance
7
  This is the value of the total bonus earned during the financial year and includes the annual bonus paid in respect of performance against goals for 2015 and 2014 
and the IPO bonus paid for performance in ensuring an orderly and efficient IPO in 2014. Where the requisite shareholding requirement has not been met by an 
Executive Director then 50% of the annual bonus will be paid in shares. Where the requirement has been met then 25% will be paid in shares. 
8
 The amount shown relates to the gain, being the market value on date of exercise less exercise price, on EMI share option awards that vested during the year
9
  UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed maximum limits are exceeded. The Committee has previously 
determined that Executive Directors affected by this legislation would receive pension benefits limited by the prescribed maximum amounts and an additional 
taxable supplementary cash payment equal to the cost to the Company of the benefit foregone. The amount of this supplementary allowance is set so that there 
is no additional cost to the Company as a result of the implementation of this arrangement. In 2015 Steven Harris received £40,114 of this pension amount as 
supplementary cash (2014: nil).
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 60 Annual bonus for the year to 31 December 2015
For the year ended 31 December 2015 the bonus consisted of two elements. For performance against annual operational and development 
goals bonuses up to a maximum of 100% of base salary for Executive Directors and Senior Vice Presidents could be earned. 
Performance objectives are agreed by the Board at the beginning of the year and the Remuneration Committee determines the proportion of 
bonus payable to each Director and Senior Vice President in the event that the objective is achieved. The Remuneration Committee determines 
at the beginning of the year following the bonus year, the extent to which the objective has been achieved and the proportion of the bonus 
earned. The bonus is calculated on base salary.
The annual performance objectives agreed for 2015 together with proportions payable to each Executive Director are set out below.
 
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
1 
 
 
Cat
CP009: Complete paediatric phase II 
study.
CP007: Oversee CP007 study, 
including 80% of data cleaned, to 
ensure results available by H1 2016.
Q4 2015 
Q4 2015
– 
5%
– 
15%
– 
5%
– 
5%
– 
15%
– 
5%
All subjects completed CP009 
study by end December 2015.
By 31 December 2015, more 
than 80% of data clean had 
been achieved.
2 House Dust Mite
TH005 study fully recruited. Q4 2015 10% 15% 5% 10% 15% 5%
Screening closed end 
December 2015.
3 Ragweed
Complete TR006A follow up study. 
 
 
 
 
Submit IND for TR009.
Q1 2016 
 
 
 
 
Q4 2015
5% 
 
 
 
 
5%
10% 
 
 
 
 
10%
– 
 
 
 
 
5%
5% 
 
 
 
 
5%
10% 
 
 
 
 
10%
– 
 
 
 
 
5%
Study complete.
Written scientific advice 
received from pre-IND meeting 
request confirms acceptability 
of testing 8 x 12 nmol and  
8 x 24 nmol in TR009 study. 
Consequently no need to open 
IND early to support safety 
study for 24nmol dose.
4 Grass
TG003/TG004 results available. 
Submit end of phase II meeting request.
H1 2015 
Q3 2015
– 
5%
– 
5%
– 
5%
– 
5%
– 
5%
– 
5%
TG003/ TG004 results 
available on schedule.
Request for Type B meeting 
submitted to FDA following 
receipt of comments on 
Master File. Agreement 
reached with FDA on design 
of pivotal registration study. 
5 Birch
Complete Tox studies.
Commence phase IIa safety study.
H1 2015
H2 2015
–
–
–
5%
–
–
–
–
–
5%
–
–
Tox studies complete.
Phase IIa study initiated July 
2015 and dosing complete 
December 2015.
6 Japanese cedar
Complete GLP tox studies. H2 2015 – 5% – – 5% –
Successful outcome from 
consultation with PMDA 
resulting in agreement to 
single species toxicity and no 
need for PK data. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 61  
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
7 Complete all CMC activities 
necessary to support the goals of 
the business including:
—  Potency assays qualified to support 
IND for ragweed and end of phase II 
meetings for grass
—  Support preparation of IND/ CTA 
for grass registration study and 
ragweed phase II 
—  Ensure availability of study supplies 
for birch clinical studies
—  Manufacture grass pre-validation 
batches 
—  Manufacture first set ragweed 
validation batches
 
 
Q4 2015 
 
Q4 2015 
 
 
Q4 2015 
Q4 2015 
 
Q4 2015
– 10% – – 10% – 
 
Potency assay qualified for 
grass and response identified 
for final ragweed peptide.
IND submitted 12 February 
2016; ragweed IND/CTA 
support complete.
Study supplies manufactured 
and released for birch study.
Manufacture grass pre-
validation batches of peptides 
complete at Bachem.
Purchase order in place for 
ragweed peptides at Bachem 
Americas to manufacture 
batches of HDM peptides 
at second site for inclusion 
in HDM phase III study, 
mitigating supply chain risk.
8 Acquisitions
At least two acquisition opportunities 
brought to the Board requesting 
authorisation to proceed with non-
binding acquisition terms – these 
proposals shall include the terms 
and structure of the proposal and the 
findings of preliminary due diligence. 
The Board will place greater value 
of opportunities that are not part of 
“broad auctions” based on information 
memorandums, and are based upon 
more extensive dialogue and discussion 
with the target prior to submission of 
any terms.
Q4 2015 20% 10% 20% 20% 10% 20% Acquisitions of Aerocrine and 
Prosonix completed on 18 
June 2015 and 15 June 2015 
on terms deemed favourable 
by the Board and with clear 
rationale to support the overall 
Group strategy.
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 62  
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
9 Commercial Infrastructure
Identification and lease of physical 
facilities in the US. 
Identification and appointment of HR 
and Finance support in the US. 
 
Identification and appointment of VP, 
Medical Affairs. 
Identification of thought leaders and 
engagement plan development;  
 
 
 
 
Identification, appointment and training 
of Regional Medical Affairs Directors 
(US and EU);  
 
 
 
 
Identification and contracting 
of publication planning vendor; 
development, approval and initial 
implementation of publication plan 
including appropriate abstract 
submissions (as data release permits) 
at AAAAI, EAACI, and ACAAI.
Development and deployment of digital 
engagement initiative with allergists. 
 
 
Identification and appointment of 
Market Access leadership (2 positions 
– US and EU). 
 
Identification and contracting with 
appropriate consulting and/or research 
vendors (including HEOR support) to 
develop overall global and country-
level market access/pricing and 
reimbursement plans.
Identification and contracting of 3PL 
consultancy.
Q3/2015 
 
Q2/2015 
 
 
Q1/2015 
Q2/2015 
 
 
 
 
 
Q2/2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q2/2015 
 
 
 
 
 
Q4/2015 
 
 
 
Q4/2015 
 
 
 
Q3/2015 
 
 
 
 
Q4/2015
15% – 20% 15% – 20%
US facilities occupied in April 
2015.  
 
HR support started in April 
2015; Finance support 
acquired through acquisition 
of Aerocrine. 
 
VP, Medical Affairs started in 
April 2015.
KOL identification, 
engagement plans and 
tracking system put into 
place for Regional Medical 
Affairs Directors (RMADs) by 
June 2015 (includes use of 
MedMeme and Veeva CRM).
5 US RMADs, 2 German 
RMADs and 1 UK RMAD 
hired and trained in May 
2015; 1 France RMAD started 
in September 2015 (due to 
notice period); number of 
US RMADs increased to 7 
following the addition of NIOX
®
 
products in October 2015.  
 
Publication planning partner 
hired in April 2016; initial 
publication plan developed 
and agreed by Commercial 
and R&D by June 2015. 
With the acquisition of Aerocrine 
field force, engagement with 
allergists is now face-to-face. 
This initiative was put on hold.
 
Five market access 
consultants participated in 
tender process; appointment 
pending 
 
 
As above.  
 
With the hiring of the VP, 
Global Supply & Distribution, 
it was determined that this 
activity did not need to occur 
until 3Q16.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 63  
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
10 Commercialisation of Cat-SPIRE
—  Complete patient journey in all key 
launch countries 
—  Complete global scientific narrative 
and core message structure 
associated with cat
—  Complete brand positioning for cat 
—  Brand name options for submission 
to appropriate regulatory authorities 
—  Complete burden of disease study 
for cat allergy 
—  Finalised packaging options for cat
Q3/2015 
 
Q3/2015 
 
Q4/2015 
 
Q1/2015 
 
Q4/2015 
 
Q4/2015
15% – – 15% – –
Patient journey research 
conducted and reported out in 
May 2015.
Scientific narrative and core 
message structure completed in 
December 2015.
Brand positioning underway 
put on hold until after the phase 
III data.
Brand and scientific names 
finalised. Brand names 
approved by EMA during the 
3Q15.
Study started in November 
2015 with read-out anticipated 
in 1Q16.
Investigation ongoing for 
packaging options. With 
hire of VP , Global Supply & 
Distribution it was determined 
that finalisation not needed until 
mid-year 2016.
11 Operate within budget (excluding 
material additional work approved 
by board)
Q4 2015 15% 10% 20% 15% 10% 20% Achieved.
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 64  
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
12 Ensure that Circassia’s patents are 
secured
—  Prepare robust responses to 
oppositions to ensure that the 
Company gets valuable (protective) 
claims 
 
—  Win any oppositions that occur 
such that the Company maintains 
valuable (protective) claims 
 
 
 
 
 
 
— File patents on new programmes 
Q4 2015 
Q4 2015 
 
 
 
 
Q4 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q4 2015
5% 5% 20% 5% 5% 20% 
Robust responses were 
filed in all four pending 
oppositions, supplemented 
where appropriate with expert 
declarations and experimental 
evidence.
European opposition 
proceedings took place in 
relation to CPF04 (cat vaccine 
patent); CPF32 (formulations 
with trehalose); and CPF08 
(reduced dimer formation). 
Successful outcomes 
were achieved in all three 
proceedings with valuable 
claims upheld.
New patent application based 
on the transcriptome analysis 
work carried out with McMaster 
filed in June. Three further 
filings for new inventions under 
preparation.
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Immediate payment in cash as % 
of salary
– – – 75% 75% 50%
Deferred payment in shares as % 
of salary
– – – 25% 25% 50%
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 65 The Remuneration Committee is able to determine the final outcome of the Bonus Award upwards or downwards where exceptional  
events occur which are outside the control of the Executive Directors and which materially affect the calculation. In view of a number of  
significant additional achievements of each of the executives, the Committee was satisfied that a payment of 100% of salary was appropriate. 
The achievements included:
 — Receipt of first regulatory approval for respiratory product
 — Integration of the two acquisitions across six geographic locations (Oxford, Chicago, Morrisville, Solna, Germany and China) in less than  
six months
 — Recruitment, training and deployment of US field-based organisation
Deferred share bonus awards are structured as conditional awards over shares which vest after three years. The level of deferral is linked to 
the achievement of the Company’s shareholding guidelines as set out in the policy report. Where the guidelines have been met in full, 75% of 
bonuses are paid in cash and 25% in shares. Both Steven Harris and Rod Hafner have met their shareholding guidelines and therefore 75% of  
their 2015 bonus was paid in cash. Julien Cotta has not yet met the shareholding guidelines and so 50% of his bonus was paid in cash and  
50% in shares.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards made during the year
On 26 February 2015 the following awards under the Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”) were made to the 
Executive Directors.
Executive 
Director Type of award
Basis of  
award granted
Share price  
at date of grant
Number of  
shares over  
which award  
was granted
% of shares 
granted that 
vest at threshold 
performance
Face value of 
shares over  
which award 
originally granted 
£’000
Vesting 
determined by 
performance  
over
Steven Harris
Nominal cost 
option
150% of salary  
of £386,000 £2.60 214,444 25% £579
3 years  
from date  
of grant
Julien Cotta
Nominal cost 
option
125% of salary  
of £242,000 £2.60 112,037 25% £303
3 years  
from date  
of grant
Rod Hafner
Nominal cost 
option
125% of salary  
of £262,500 £2.60 121,528 25% £328
3 years  
from date  
of grant
 
The number of options in the 2014 PSP that ultimately vest will be determined according to the following performance criteria:
Criterion 1: Relative TSR 
For options granted in 2014, up to 70% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the performance criterion.
% vesting of the total award Relative TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 Index  
(as at the date of grant) for a period of three years from the 
date of grant.
1
0% Below median
25% Median
70% Upper quartile
1
 In respect of criterion 1, vesting occurs on a straight line basis between the median and upper quartile points
 
Criterion 2: Clinical and strategic business objectives
For options granted in 2014, between 0% and 30% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the performance criterion.
The clinical and strategic business objectives referred to in criterion 2 are as follows. Percentages in brackets relate to the percentage of the  
total award:
 — Cat – phase III results (CP007) by 30 Sept 2016 (9%);
 — Ragweed – phase II results (TR006) by 31 December 2015 (3%);
 — Ragweed – regulatory and IRB approval for commencement of Phase III by 31 March 2016 (3%);
 — HDM – phase II fully recruited by 31 March 2016 (6%);
 — Grass – end of phase II meeting by 31 December 2015 (3%);
 — Regulatory and IRB approval for commencement of new clinical programme by 31 March 2017 (3%);
 — Signed agreement for out-licensing deal/partnership for development and commercialisation by end 31 December 2016 (3%); and
 — Achievement against objectives results in proportionate vesting.
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 66 The number of options in the 2015 PSP that ultimately vest will be determined according to the following performance criteria:
Criterion 1: Relative TSR 
For options granted in 2015, up to 50% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the performance criterion.
% vesting of the total award Relative TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 Index  
(as at Relative TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 Index  
(as at the date of grant) for a period of three years from the 
date of grant.
1
0% Below median
25% Median
50% Upper quartile
1
 In respect of criterion 1, vesting occurs on a straight line basis between the median and upper quartile points
 
Criterion 2: Clinical and strategic business objectives
For options granted in 2015, up to 50% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the performance criterion.
The clinical and strategic business objectives referred to in criterion 2 are as follows. Percentages in brackets relate to the percentage of the  
total award:
 — First filing of Cat-SPIRE by 2017 (12.5%);
 — Establishment of country-specific sales and sales operations infrastructures including US sales force by end of 2017 (12.5%);
 — File one additional product by end of 2018 (12.5%);
 — Average sales growth for 2016 – 2018 greater than 20% per annum (12.5%);
Deferred bonus share awards made during the year
On 27 February 2015 the following awards under the Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan (the DSBP) were made to the 
Executive Directors in respect of the deferred portion of their 2014 bonus. Awards will vest after three years, subject to continued service only.
Director Type of award Vesting date
Face value of shares over 
which award granted 
£’000’s
Share price at  
date of grant
Number of shares over  
which award granted
Steven Harris Conditional award 26 February 2018 87 £2.61 33,436
Julien Cotta Conditional award 26 February 2018 112 £2.61 42,807
Rod Hafner Conditional award 26 February 2018 56 £2.61 21,514
 
Directors’ pensions
For the financial year ended 31 December 2015 the Company contributed £133,575 to defined contribution money purchase pension schemes 
for the Directors. As was explained in the remuneration table, Executive Directors may also receive a supplementary cash payment in lieu of 
pension contributions where statutory limits have been exceeded. During the financial year ended 31 December 2015, a total of £40,114 was paid 
to Steven Harris as supplementary cash due to him exceeding such a statutory limit. The remaining £17 ,786 of his pension contributions from 
the Group were paid into his pension scheme prior to reaching this limit. There were no supplementary cash payments during the financial year 
ended 31 December 2014.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
The Directors who have held office during the year ended 31 December 2015 and their interests (in respect of which transactions must be notified 
to the Company) in the share capital of the Company are shown in the following tables.
There was no change in the Directors’ interests between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
Directors holding office at 31 December 2015 with LTIP awards and options outstanding over Ordinary shares of 0.08p were as follows:
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 67 Remuneration Committee report continued
Plan Date of grant
Awards granted and  
options held  
as at 1 January 2015
1
Awards and options  
granted (exercised, lapsed, 
or cancelled) during year
Awards and options held  
at 31 December 2015 and  
at the date of this report 
Vesting  
during year
Vested  
as at year end
Unvested  
as at year end
Exercise price  
(p)
Date from which first 
exercisable Expiry date
Executive Directors
S Harris
2007 EMI Scheme 2 August 2007 317,500 – 317,500 – 317,500 – 0.08 2 August 2010 1 August 2017
2007 EMI Scheme 15 August 2011 217,875 – 217,875 – 217,875 – 0.08 18 March 2014 14 August 2021
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 251,125 – 251,125 – – 251,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024
2015 PSP 26 February 2015 – 214,444 214,444 
 
– – 214,444 0.08 26 February 2018 25 February 2025 
Total 786,500 214,444 1,000,944 – 535,375 465,569   
J Cotta
2013 Unapproved Scheme 22 October 2013 149,250 – 149,250 – – 149,250 242 22 October 2016 21 October 2023
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 131,125 – 131,125 – – 131,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024
2015 PSP 26 February 2015 – 112,037 112,037 
 
– – 112,037 0.08 26 February 2018 25 February 2025 
2015 PSP 280,375 112,037 392,412 – – 392,412   
R Hafner
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 204,750 – 204,750 – – 204,750 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024
2015 PSP 26 February 2015  – 121,528  121,528 
 
– 
 
– 
 
121,528 0.08 26 February 2018 25 February 2025 
Total 204,750 121,528 326,278 – – 326,278   
Non-Executive Directors
T Corn
2007 Unapproved Scheme 23 February 2010 62,500 – 62,500 – 62,500 – 0.08 23 February 2013 22 February 2020
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,750 – 16,750 
 
– 16,750 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Total 79,250 – 79,250 – 79,250 –   
P Edick
2007 Unapproved Scheme 3 April 2013 156,250 – 156,250 
 
– – 156,250 0.08 3 April 2016 2 April 2023 
JJ Garaud
2007 Unapproved Scheme 12 November 2012 77,500 – 77,500 
 
77,500 77,500 – 0.08 12 November 2015 11 November 2022 
C Petty
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,250 – 16,250 
 
– 16,250 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 68 Plan Date of grant
Awards granted and  
options held  
as at 1 January 2015
1
Awards and options  
granted (exercised, lapsed, 
or cancelled) during year
Awards and options held  
at 31 December 2015 and  
at the date of this report 
Vesting  
during year
Vested  
as at year end
Unvested  
as at year end
Exercise price  
(p)
Date from which first 
exercisable Expiry date
Executive Directors
S Harris
2007 EMI Scheme 2 August 2007 317,500 – 317,500 – 317,500 – 0.08 2 August 2010 1 August 2017
2007 EMI Scheme 15 August 2011 217,875 – 217,875 – 217,875 – 0.08 18 March 2014 14 August 2021
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 251,125 – 251,125 – – 251,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024
2015 PSP 26 February 2015 – 214,444 214,444 
 
– – 214,444 0.08 26 February 2018 25 February 2025 
Total 786,500 214,444 1,000,944 – 535,375 465,569   
J Cotta
2013 Unapproved Scheme 22 October 2013 149,250 – 149,250 – – 149,250 242 22 October 2016 21 October 2023
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 131,125 – 131,125 – – 131,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024
2015 PSP 26 February 2015 – 112,037 112,037 
 
– – 112,037 0.08 26 February 2018 25 February 2025 
2015 PSP 280,375 112,037 392,412 – – 392,412   
R Hafner
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 204,750 – 204,750 – – 204,750 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024
2015 PSP 26 February 2015  – 121,528  121,528 
 
– 
 
– 
 
121,528 0.08 26 February 2018 25 February 2025 
Total 204,750 121,528 326,278 – – 326,278   
Non-Executive Directors
T Corn
2007 Unapproved Scheme 23 February 2010 62,500 – 62,500 – 62,500 – 0.08 23 February 2013 22 February 2020
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,750 – 16,750 
 
– 16,750 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Total 79,250 – 79,250 – 79,250 –   
P Edick
2007 Unapproved Scheme 3 April 2013 156,250 – 156,250 
 
– – 156,250 0.08 3 April 2016 2 April 2023 
JJ Garaud
2007 Unapproved Scheme 12 November 2012 77,500 – 77,500 
 
77,500 77,500 – 0.08 12 November 2015 11 November 2022 
C Petty
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,250 – 16,250 
 
– 16,250 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 69 With regard to the PSP , the number of shares released to Directors at the end of the three year performance period is dependent upon satisfying 
the criteria relating to TSR and clinical and strategic milestones which are set out in the section of this report relating to the PSP .
DSBP awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the Executive Director remains an officer or employee of the Group.
Executive Directors hold options under the Circassia Holdings Limited EMI Share Option Scheme 2007 (the “EMI Scheme”); the Circassia Holdings 
Limited Unapproved Share Option Scheme 2007 (the “2007 Unapproved Scheme”); and the Circassia Holdings Limited Unapproved Share Option 
Scheme 2013 (the “2013 Unapproved Scheme”). Historically, no performance conditions have been attached to the options granted under these 
schemes. The exercise price is equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the time the options are granted. 
It was explained in the Corporate governance section of this report that the Group granted certain Non-Executive Directors share options in the 
past, when it was a private company. No further options have been granted since Admission and no awards will be made in the future.
Gain on exercise of share options
No Directors exercised share options in the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Directors’ interests in shares (including shares held as Restricted shares)
As was noted earlier in this report, the Company has implemented guidelines which require the Executive Directors and key senior employees 
to build up and maintain an interest in the Ordinary shares of the Company which is equal in value to their annual base salary. For the purpose of 
assessing compliance with these guidelines, the value of the shareholding is calculated using the higher of the share price on 31 December 2015 
(319p) and the acquisition price of the shares. The value as a percentage of salary has been calculated using base salary as at 31 December 2015.
The following table shows the number of Ordinary shares beneficially owned by the Directors who served during the financial year which are not 
subject to any restrictions on transfer or to forfeiture.
 
Shares beneficially owned  
as at 31 December 2015
Value of owned shares  
as a % of salary
Shareholding  
requirement met
Executive Directors
S Harris 5,298,677 4379% Yes
J Cotta 25,000 33% No
R Hafner 796,044 967% Yes
Non-Executive Directors
F Granata - n/a n/a
T Corn 62,500 n/a n/a
C Petty 188,875 n/a n/a
C Swingland 3,653,129 n/a n/a
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 70 The following table shows the interests in Restricted shares of the Directors who served during the year. These are subject to restrictions on 
transfer or to forfeiture.
 
Date of grant  
of Restricted shares
b/f as at  
1 January 2015 Vesting
c/f as at  
31 December 
2015
Value of owned shares  
as a % of salary
Executive Directors
S Harris 6 February 2013 250,000 (250,000) – –
7 March 2013 125,000 125,000 103%
J Cotta 6 February 2013 25,000 (25,000) – –
7 March 2013 12,500 12,500 16%
4 March 2014 9,375 9,375 12%
R Hafner 6 February 2013 125,000 (125,000) – –
7 March 2013 75,000 75,000 91%
4 March 2014 29,500 29,500 36%
Non-Executive Directors
F Granata 1 September 2013 312,500 – 312,500 n/a
C Swingland 20 December 2012 62,500 (62,500) – –
 7 March 2013 75,000 75,000 n/a 
 
No further restricted shares were awarded in the year.
Restricted shares have been subscribed for or purchased at a price of 10p per Ordinary share and, under the terms of their acquisition, are 
subject to certain restrictions on transfer and forfeiture. The restrictions lift on the earlier of a sale of the Company and the expiry of a vesting 
period of between two and three years (depending on the date of award of the Restricted shares). The Ordinary shares may be forfeited if the 
participant ceases to be employed or be an officer of the Company prior to the vesting of the shares other than by reason of: death; resignation; 
permanent incapacity; redundancy; retirement; non-renewal of a fixed term contract or consultancy.
Directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board. 
None of the Directors currently holds or has held their shares in such an arrangement.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 71 Remuneration Committee report continued
Unaudited information 
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the CEO
% change between 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015
CEO
Salary 3% increase
Benefits nil
Bonus 8% decrease
Average per employee
Salary 3% increase
Benefits 1% increase
Bonus 9% decrease
 
In 2014 the bonus of the CEO included a discretionary one off bonus relating to the IPO process. 
Total shareholder return
The performance of the Company’s Ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment trusts) (the “Index”) for the year ended 
31 December 2015 is shown in the graph below:
The Company has chosen the Index as its benchmark of share price performance as it believes that this gives Shareholders a reasonable 
comparison with the total shareholder return of other equity investments in companies of a broadly similar size across all sectors. The TSR 
performance has been measured by JPMorgan Cazenove.
The mid-market price of an Ordinary share on 31 December 2015 was 319p. From 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 the share price ranged 
from a high of 353p to a low of 246p.
Total shareholder return 
18 March 2014 – 31 December 2015
 
110
120
100
90
80
70 Circassia
FTSE 250 excluding Investment trusts
Mar 14 May 14 Jul 14 Sep 14 Nov 14 Jan 15 Mar 15 May 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Oct 15 Dec 15
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 72 Total remuneration for the CEO over time
Description 2015 2014
Total remuneration (£’000) 2,359 1,528
Bonus awarded (%) 100% 93%
LTIP vesting (%) n/a 100%
 
The table above shows the total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer during the financial years in which the Company has been 
constituted as a public company. The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance 
during those years. The annual bonus and PSP percentages show the amount paid out for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Relative importance of expenditure on pay
The table below shows the expenditure by the Company on remuneration paid to all employees of the Group and distributions to Shareholders 
for the financial period.
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Overall expenditure on pay 13.7 6.5
Dividend plus share buyback Nil Nil
 
Application of remuneration policy to 2016 salary review
The Executive Directors’ salaries were reviewed in January 2014 as part of the IPO process and were set at a level which the Committee 
regarded as broadly mid-market when compared with other companies of a similar size operating within the same sector. New Bridge Street 
provided advice to the Committee on this process. Further salary reviews have taken place on 9 February 2015 and 10 February 2016 and  
a 3% increase was applied effective 1 January 2015 and 2016 respectively. This increase is in line with the average salary increase awarded to  
UK employees.
 
Salary as at  
1 January 2016
Salary as at  
1 January 2015
%  
Increase
Steven Harris 397,500 386,000 3
Julien Cotta 249,250 242,000 3
Rod Hafner 270,375 262,500 3
 
Performance targets for 2016 bonus and PSP awards
For the financial year 2016, the annual bonus will continue to be based on corporate objectives analogous to those set out in the Remuneration 
Policy. The maximum bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary for Executive Directors in line with the ongoing remuneration policy.
The Committee has decided not to disclose the detailed nature of these performance targets as they comprise commercially sensitive 
information. Retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be made in the 2016 Remuneration Committee report.
The measures applicable to awards made under the Performance Share Plan will be as follows:
Criterion 1: Relative TSR
For options granted in 2016, up to 50% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the relative TSR performance criterion.
% vesting of the total award Relative TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 Index (as at the 
date of grant) for a period of three years from the date of 
grant.
1
0% Below median
25% Median
50% Upper quartile
1
 In respect of criterion 1, vesting occurs on a straight line basis between the median and upper quartile points
Criterion 2: Clinical and strategic business objectives
For options granted in 2016, up to 50% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the following clinical and strategic business 
performance criterion. Percentages in brackets relate to the percentage of the total award:
 — First filing of Cat-SPIRE by 2017 (12.5%);
 — Establishment of country-specific sales and sales operations infrastructures including US sales force by end of 2017 (12.5%);
 — File one additional product by end of 2018 (12.5%);
 — Average sales growth for 2016 – 2018 greater than 20% per annum (12.5%);
Award levels for 2016 will be in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Other remuneration components
Pension and benefits will be in line with the remuneration policy.
Circassia
FTSE 250 excluding Investment trusts
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 73 Non-Executive Director remuneration
The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have been increased by 3% effective 1 January 2016. This increase is in line with the 
average salary increase awarded to UK employees. The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2015 and the fees proposed to be paid in 
2016 are set out below:
 
From 1 January 2015  
(£)
From 1 January 2016  
(£)
Increase  
%
Chairman 130,500 134,400 3
Non-Executive Director 43,250 44,550 3
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Fee 49,950 51,450 3
Remuneration and Audit Committee Chairmanship Fee 10,300 10,600 3
Nomination Committee Chair 7,725 7,950 3
Committee Memberships 5,150 5,300 3
 
Shareholder voting at the Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2015
The Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration were both approved by Shareholders at last year’s AGM held on 20 May 2015 
with the following votes cast for and against.
Voting results at 2015 AGM For % Against % Witheld (votes)
To approve the Annual report on 
remuneration
99.56 0.44 1,901,524
To approve the Directors’ 
remuneration policy report
99.57 0.43 1,901,524
 
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is therefore not included in the percentages shown above.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board on 11 March 2016.
Marvin Samson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 74 Directors’ report
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors present 
their report together with the financial statements and the Independent 
Auditors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Information included in Strategic Report
The Company’s Strategic Report is on pages 1 to 37 and includes the 
following information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed 
in this Directors’ report:
Subject matter Page reference
Likely future developments in the 
business
22 to 28
Research and development 22 to 28
Employee involvement 32
Disclosures concerning 
greenhouse gas emissions
33
Corporate governance statement
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate 
Governance Statement can be found in the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 40 to 41 and the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 37 
(and is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference), with the 
exception of the information referred to in DTR 7 .2.6, which is located in 
this Directors’ Report.
Results and dividend
The results for the year and the financial position as at 31 December 2015 
are shown in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and 
the Consolidated statement of financial position. The results of the Group 
are explained in more detail in the Financial review.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the 
year to 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors of the Company at the date of this report, together with 
their biographical details and dates of appointment are set out in the 
Corporate governance report and the Board of Directors section.
The Directors served throughout the year to the date of this report  
with the exception of Lota S Zoth who served from 9 February 2015 
and Mr Marvin S Samson who served from 8 December 2015.
The Board confirms that each of the Directors who served during the 
year has been formally appraised during this period. In accordance with 
the Code, all Directors of the Company will stand for re-election on an 
annual basis.
Information on the Directors’ remuneration and their interests in the 
share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report. 
None of the Directors has a commercial interest in any material 
contract entered into by the Company.
As is permitted by sections 232 to 235 Companies Act 2006, and 
consistent with the Company’s Articles of Association, the Company 
has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under 
a Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Policy. Further, the Company has 
granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability which arises due  
to claims brought by third parties.
The Directors may exercise their powers pursuant to the Articles of 
Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation, and any 
resolution of the Shareholders. The Articles are available for review at 
the registered office.
Share capital and Shareholders
Share capital
At 7 March 2016 the Company had a total of 348 Ordinary 
Shareholders and 284,889,171 Ordinary shares in issue.
During the year the share capital of the Company increased by 
95,469,537 Ordinary shares as a result of the admission of shares 
issued pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer on 11 June 2015.  
Details of the movements in the Company’s share capital are shown  
in note 23 to the financial statements.
The Company has only one class of shares which carry no right to fixed 
income. Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings 
of the Company. There are no restrictions on voting rights or on the 
holding or transfer of these securities.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 24 to the 
financial statements. The Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Employee 
Benefit Trust abstains from voting on the shares held by it. 110,845 
shares were acquired by the Employee Benefit Trust during the year 
(2014: Nil) and the balance of shares held at 31 December 2015 was 
therefore 110,845.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association and vote of Shareholders at the 
AGM which took place on 20 May 2015 the Company has been granted 
authority to allot shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£7,577 on a non-pre-emptive basis. This nominal amount represents 
approximately 3% of the issued share capital of the Company as at  
10 March 2016. No such allotments were made during the year to  
31 December 2015 or up to the date of this report. At the General 
Meeting which took place on 10 June 2015 the Company was granted 
authority to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £76,375.63 pursuant to the placing and open offer.
Lock up arrangements
The Company and the Directors agreed certain lock-up arrangements in 
advance of the IPO of the Company on 18 March 2014.
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement which was made between 
the Company, the Directors, the Selling Shareholders, and the Banks, 
each of the Directors agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during 
the period of 12 months following Admission, they would not without 
prior consent of the Joint Bookrunners, offer, sell or contract to sell or 
otherwise dispose of any Ordinary shares. This obligation expired on 
17 March 2015.
Directors’ report
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 75 Share price
From 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 the share price  
ranged from a high of 353p to a low of 246p. The average price for  
the period was 289p. The mid-market price of an Ordinary share on  
31 December 2015 was 319p.
 
Number  
of shares
% of  
shares
The Bank of New York (Nominees) Limited 107,563,357 37.8%
State Street Nominees Limited  35,010,387 12.3%
Nortrust Nominees Limited 33,774,706 11.9%
PH Nominees Limited 26,693,711 9.4%
Chase Nominees Limited 25,694,183 9.0%
Chase (GA Group) Nominees Limited 16,825,049 5.9%
Significant shareholdings
As at 29 February 2016 the Company had been notified of the following 
interests, held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Company’s 
issued share capital.
Directors’ report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 76 The Board confirms that, in accordance with LR 9.2.2AR(2)(a) 
Relationship Agreements were put in place on 12 March 2014 between 
the Company and Invesco Asset Management Limited, and the 
Company and Imperial Innovations LLP and their affiliates.
Invesco holds more than 20% of the voting rights attached to the 
issued share capital of Imperial Innovations and accordingly there is a 
presumption (which has not been rebutted) that Invesco and Imperial 
Innovations are acting in concert in relation to their shareholdings in the 
Company. At the date of this report, Invesco and Imperial Innovations 
together held 44.4% of the voting rights attached to the issued share 
capital of the Company.
Invesco relationship agreement
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure that 
the Company will be capable of carrying on its business independently 
of Invesco for so long as Invesco, together with its concert parties, 
holds a controlling interest.
Pursuant to these agreements, and for so long as Invesco holds a 
controlling interest:
 — The parties shall procure that all transactions and relationships 
between the Company and any other member of the Group and 
Invesco (or any of its associates) are conducted at arms-length 
and on normal commercial terms; and
 — Invesco shall not (and shall procure that each of its associates 
shall not) take any action that would prevent the Company 
from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and 
shall not propose or procure the proposal of any Shareholder 
resolution which is intended to or appears to be intended to 
circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Imperial Innovations relationship agreement
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that 
the Company will be capable of carrying on its business independently 
of Imperial Innovations for so long as Imperial Innovations with its 
concert parties, holds a controlling interest.
Pursuant to these agreements, and for so long as Imperial Innovations 
together with Invesco holds a controlling interest:
 — The parties shall procure that all transactions and relationships 
between the Company and any other member of the Group and 
Imperial Innovations (or any of its associates) are conducted at 
arms-length and on normal commercial terms; and
 — Imperial Innovations shall not (and shall procure that each of its 
associates shall not) take any action that would prevent the Company 
from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and shall 
not propose or procure the proposal of any Shareholder resolution 
which is intended to or appears to be intended to circumvent the 
proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the 
independence provisions under the relationship agreements referred  
to above and, that so far as it is aware, the controlling Shareholders 
have complied with the independence provisions and, so far as 
it is aware, the controlling Shareholders have complied with the 
procurement obligation.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the 
following matters can be found on the pages identified.
Subject matter Page reference
Statement by the board on 
relationship agreements with 
controlling shareholders 
77 (Directors’ report)
Treasury management
The Company’s policy on the use of financial instruments and the 
management of financial risks is set out in note 2 to the financial 
statements.
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.  
Budgets are prepared on a rolling three year basis each year.  
These are built from the bottom up and presented to the Board  
each year for review and approval. The Directors have reviewed  
the current and projected financial position of the Company, taking  
into account existing cash balances and available financial facilities.  
On the basis of this review, the Directors have not identified any 
material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least 12 months 
from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Employment and environment
The Company’s policies on health and safety, the environment,  
and employee-related matters are disclosed in the Strategic report. 
Greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated as carbon  
dioxide equivalents.
Political and charitable donations
There were no charitable or political donations in the year to  
31 December 2015.
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to re-appoint PwC will  
be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report 
confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware, and each 
Director has taken all the steps a Director ought to have taken to make 
themselves aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Auditor is aware of that information. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Circassia 
Pharmaceuticals plc on 18 May 2016 at 9:30 a.m. Details of the 
business to be transacted at the forthcoming AGM will be given in  
a separate circular to Shareholders. 
By order of the Board
Julien Cotta 
Company Secretary
11 March 2016
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 77 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
In respect of the Annual report and accounts and financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on 
the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent 
financial statements the Directors are required to:
 — properly select and consistently apply accounting policies;
 — make prudent and reasonable accounting estimates and 
judgements;
 — state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU; and
 — make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
and Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 — the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
 — the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties which they face; and
 — the Annual report and the financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors’ report, including those sections of the Annual report 
which are referred to in it, has been approved by the Board and is 
signed on its behalf by:
Julien Cotta 
Director
11 March 2016
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 78 Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
Report on the financial statements 
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 — Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc’s Group financial statements and 
parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group’s loss and the Group’s and the parent company’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
 — the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
 — the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual report and 
accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 — the Consolidated statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2015
 — the Parent company statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2015;
 — the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for  
the year then ended;
 — the Group and parent company statement of cash flows for  
the year then ended;
 — the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then 
ended;
 — the Parent company statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended; and
 — the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
 — Overall Group materiality: £720,000 which 
represents 1% of total expenses.
 — We performed an audit of the complete 
financial information of 4 components and 
specified procedures of 2 components 
which accounted for 93% of the Group’s 
expenses, 100% of the Group’s revenue 
and 91% of the Group loss before tax. 
 — Of these, two were financially significant 
components. The Group engagement 
team conducted the audit of one of the 
financially significant components and we 
visited our component team in Sweden 
who performed the audit of the other 
significant component.
 — The Group engagement team also 
conducted the audit of the complete 
financial information of two components 
that were not deemed to be financially 
significant. 
 — The Group engagement team and our 
component team in the USA performed 
specified procedures on the financial 
information of a further two components. 
 — The components where an audit was 
performed by the Group engagement 
team accounted for 73%, 27% and 
78% of the work over Group expenses, 
Group revenue and Group loss before tax 
respectively.
 — Accounting for business combinations.
 — Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets.
 — Deferred tax assets may not be realisable.
 — Measuring the fair value of awards under 
share options schemes and the related 
accounting treatment.
 — Accounting for share issue costs.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for 
example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether 
there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we 
tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an 
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we 
make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
 
Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 79 Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for business combinations 
The Group made two acquisitions in the year, Aerocrine AB 
(“Aerocrine”) and Prosonix Limited (“Prosonix”). On 19 June 2015, 
92.6% of Aerocrine was acquired for cash consideration of £129.6m. 
By 31 December 2015 the Group owned 97 .9% of Aerocrine.
On 15 June 2015, 100% of Prosonix was acquired for cash 
consideration of £70m plus a further £30m in contingent 
consideration. The contingent consideration became due on 23 
December 2015.
Our main area of focus and the area of most complexity and 
judgement was the identification and valuation of intangible assets.
Refer to page 47 (Audit Committee Report), page 92, (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 116-117  
in the notes.
We assessed management’s accounting for the business 
combinations under IFRS 3 “Business combinations” (“IFRS 3”).
We obtained management’s valuation models and used our firm’s 
valuation specialists in assessing the robustness and appropriateness 
of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key 
assumptions and judgements made by management.
We assessed the cash flow forecasts and key assumptions and 
judgements made by management with particular focus on the 
following: long term growth rates, working capital assumptions, 
existing customer growth rates, tax rates and royalty rates. We 
worked with our valuation specialists to assess the reasonableness 
of management’s assumptions by using our understanding of the 
businesses and performing the following:
 — We obtained and reviewed the underlying licence agreements 
to assess the royalty rates used and management’s forecasted 
licence cash flows;
 — We assessed the assumed revenue growth rates for existing 
products;
 — We assessed the appropriateness of working capital 
assumptions by considering historical working capital trends and 
management’s plans for future working capital;
 — We ascertained the life of the patents and assessed whether the 
cash flow forecasts appropriately reflected patent expiries;
 — We obtained an understanding of the assumed product 
development phases and timings and benchmarked this to 
industry standards;
 — We obtained an understanding of expected market penetration 
and timelines and benchmarked this to industry standards;
 — We agreed the tax rates used in the models to those enacted in 
the prospective markets;
 — We benchmarked the discount rate to comparable companies.
Along with our valuation specialists, we determined that 
management’s assumptions fell within a reasonable range.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 80 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill (£81.2m) and 
other intangible assets (£165.6m) balances and because of the level 
of judgement in the impairment assessment, specifically the future 
results of the businesses and products and the discount rates applied 
to future cash flows.
The future results of the businesses are particularly judgemental given 
that a large portion of forecast cash flows are dependent upon sales 
from products currently in the research and development phase.
Refer to page 47 (Audit Committee Report), page 92 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 102-104  
in the notes.
We obtained management’s impairment analysis and gained an 
understanding of the key assumptions and judgements underlying  
the assessment.
We assessed management’s allocation of Goodwill between CGUs 
and determined the allocation to be reasonable. 
We assessed the key assumptions including those driving the cash 
flows underpinning the analysis, including the following:
 — Forecast accuracy: We compared historical forecasts to actual 
results achieved.
 — Future revenue streams: We compared forecast growth to 
business plans and the latest developments.
 — Future product revenue streams: We compared forecast growth 
to business plans and obtained an understanding of the stage 
of product development and management’s expected timeline, 
including updates on expected milestone achievement.
 — Expenses and overheads: We reviewed historical budget to 
actual results achieved and assessed the appropriateness 
of changes to these assumptions for forecast growth and 
management identified efficiency savings.
 — Discount rate: We recalculated management’s discount rate and 
benchmarked the rate against companies of a similar nature.
We obtained and inspected management’s impairment analysis 
including the sensitivity analysis, which showed sufficient headroom. 
We performed our own sensitivities over the forecasted cash flows 
and discount rates, the results of which did not indicate an impairment 
to goodwill. However, our sensitivities did indicate that if the phase III 
trials of Cat-Spire are not successful and/or there are delays to other 
key product launches, these events may trigger an impairment to 
goodwill.
We found the assumptions to be supportable and in line with 
our expectations and the headroom to remain sufficient using 
assumptions sensitised to what we considered to be a range of 
realistically possible alternative outcomes.
Deferred tax assets may not be realisable
Deferred tax assets of £17.2m (2014: nil) were recognised in relation to 
accumulated losses.
All of the Group’s businesses have brought forward tax losses 
capable of offset against future profits. Management must make 
judgements in relation to the probability of future profits in determining 
the extent to which deferred tax assets are recognised.
Management have recognised deferred tax assets only to the extent 
of deferred tax losses relating to the same taxation authority and the 
same taxable entity.
The Group has a history of losses and the cash flow forecasts 
underpinning the recognition of the deferred tax assets are 
judgemental as they are largely dependent upon sales from products 
currently in the research and development phase. These elements 
create a level of uncertainty as to whether it is appropriate to 
recognise the deferred tax asset under IAS12 and if so, at what level 
the asset should be recognised.
Refer to page 47 (Audit Committee Report), page 92, (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and page 110 in the notes.
We have obtained management’s assessment to support the deferred 
tax asset recognised. We have inspected management’s cash flow 
forecasts. Refer to our discussion above for procedures performed 
around the cash flow forecasts. We worked with our tax specialists in 
assessing whether a deferred tax asset could be recognised under 
IAS12 and the key judgements applied in determining the level of 
deferred tax asset recognised.
The key points we considered in management’s assessment were as 
follows:
 — Whether the entities have sufficient taxable differences relating to 
the same taxation authority.
 — The impact of any forfeiture or expiry of losses to be carried 
forward.
 — Whether taxable differences will result in taxable amounts 
against which the unused tax loses can be utilised.
 — The likelihood of sufficient profits being recorded.
On the basis of our knowledge of the historical losses of the 
entities in the Group and of the tax flow projections, we evaluated 
management’s judgements in relation to the probability of utilising 
brought forward tax losses. We concurred with management’s 
judgement that deferred tax assets should be recognised only to the 
extent of deferred tax liabilities arising in the same jurisdiction.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 81 Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued 
Measuring the fair value of awards under share options 
schemes and the related accounting treatment
The Group has in place a number of share incentive schemes which 
are accounted for in accordance with “Share based payments” 
(“IFRS 2”), and the details of which are explained in note 24. All share 
incentive schemes require a level of judgement. However, the incentive 
schemes that include market vesting performance conditions are 
more complex, requiring various judgements to be made, including 
the likelihood of specific performance criteria being achieved, all of 
which directly impact the fair value of the options.
As a result there is a risk that the share option compensation charge 
could be measured incorrectly.
Refer to page 47 (Audit Committee Report), page 93 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 110-112 in the 
notes.
We obtained the paperwork supporting the grant award and scheme 
details and discussed with management the accounting applied and 
key judgements made.
We considered the reasonableness of the judgements made by 
management in determining the relevant assumptions utilised in 
calculating the fair value of the options. 
We tested management’s fair value calculation and support for key 
assumptions. The share options issued included market vesting 
performance conditions. Accordingly, management have applied the 
Monte Carlo method in valuing the options granted.
Our approach was underpinned by the following testing:
 — Assumed volatility was compared to the historical share price 
volatility of the Group since listing and also benchmarked against 
other companies in similar industries.
 — We considered the dividend rate against the Group’s dividend 
history and in the light of management’s assessment that no 
dividends will be declared in the foreseeable future.
 — The exercise price was agreed to the Group share option award 
agreements and the board meeting minutes approving the 
transaction.
 — The interest rate was compared to the UK Gilt rate at the date of 
issue for a comparable period.
 — The share price at grant date was compared to the listed share 
price on the day of grant.
 — The leaver rate was agreed to historical actuals, adjusted for an 
expected increase as the business expands.
In light of the above, we found that the method of calculating the 
fair value of share options has been applied consistently and with 
supportable assumptions. The charge booked was not materially 
sensitive to what we considered to be a range of realistically possible 
alternative outcomes as to the levels of performance attained.
Accounting for share issue costs
The Group incurred £8.8m of costs in completing a Placing and 
Open Offer in June 2015 to finance the acquisitions of Aerocrine and 
Prosonix.
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the equity 
transaction are accounted for through equity. There is an element of 
judgement in determining what costs are directly attributable to the 
equity issue.
Refer to page 47 (Audit Committee Report), page 92 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and page 110 in the notes.
We obtained a detailed listing and selected a sample of invoices. For 
these capitalised expenses, we tested management’s assessment of 
whether legal and professional fees incurred were directly attributable 
to the share issue.
We assessed the capitalised costs for completeness by reviewing a 
sample of legal and professional invoices expensed.
Having tested the appropriateness of the split in expenditure, we then 
traced the amounts into the financial statements and tested they were 
appropriately included and disclosed.
As a result, we found no material exceptions with management’s 
allocation of the costs to equity and found that the appropriate 
accounting treatment and disclosures had been applied.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough 
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, 
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates. 
As described in note 3, the Group is structured into three segments: 
Allergy, NIOX
®
 and Respiratory. The Group financial statements are a 
consolidation of 10 reporting components. The reporting components 
are located in Sweden (1), USA (2), Switzerland (1), Germany (1)  
and the UK (5).
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined 
the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units 
by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from 
other PwC network firms under our instruction. Where the work 
was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of 
involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting 
components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the 
Group financial statements as a whole.
For each reporting component we determined whether we required 
an audit of their complete financial information, specified procedures 
over select financial information or an analytical review based on both 
quantitative and qualitative factors.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 82 An audit of the complete financial information of Circassia Limited 
and Aerocrine Sweden was performed because they each make up 
greater than 15% of total Group expense. Full scope audits for 2 further 
UK reporting components were undertaken where a statutory audit 
is required. Specified procedures over select financial information 
was performed for 2 further reporting components and analytical 
procedures were performed over the remaining reporting components.
Taken together, the components where we performed our audit 
work procedures (excluding analytical procedures) provided us with 
coverage of 93% of expenses, 100% of revenues and 91% of loss 
before tax. The components where an audit was performed by the 
Group engagement team accounted for 73%, 27% and 78% of the 
work over Group expenses, Group revenue and Group loss before tax 
respectively.
As part of the Group engagement team procedures, we were involved 
in determining the audit approach of our component teams, reviewing 
the procedures performed and in addressing any issues arising from 
our work.  
As part of our year end procedures, the Group engagement leader 
visited our Swedish component team (the only significant component 
not audited directly by the Group engagement team), reviewed their 
working papers and met with local management. In addition to this, 
the Group engagement team attended all clearance meetings either in 
person or by call. This, together with the procedures performed at the 
Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the 
Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of 
our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and 
in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the 
financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 
the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £720,000 (2014: £463,000).
How we determined it
Rationale for benchmark applied
1% of total expenses.
We have determined the most appropriate measure on which to 
base materiality to be total expenses as the majority of the Group’s 
products are in the research and development stage and the spend 
to progress these to commercialisation is expected to continue to be 
significant over the coming years. As a result, we regard that investors 
will remain interested in the progression of product development  
and the level of expenditure more so than the loss generated  
by the Group.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality 
that is less than our overall Group materiality. For each component 
in our audit scope, we allocate a materiality that is less than our 
overall Group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across 
components was between £140,000 and £700,000. Certain 
components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that 
was also less than our overall Group materiality. Certain components 
were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less 
than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £36,000 (2014: 
£23,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 77 , in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have 
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that 
the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain 
in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least 
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part 
of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going 
concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as 
to the Group’s and parent company’s ability to continue as a  
going concern.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 83 Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion:
 — the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and
 — the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as set out on pages 40 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
information in the Annual Report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent 
company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
the statement given by the directors on page 78, in accordance 
with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to 
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s and parent company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
the section of the Annual Report on page 46, as required by provision 
C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does 
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit 
Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency  
or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
the directors’ confirmation on page 44 of the Annual Report, in 
accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors’ explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in 
accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications 
or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in 
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking 
that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 84 Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 — we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 — the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared 
by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of 
the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility  
set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 — whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 — the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and
 — the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or 
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information  
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent  
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Ormiston (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
11 March 2016
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 85 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 Notes
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue 4 10.8 –
Cost of sales (4.3) –
Gross profit 6.5 –
Research and development costs (46.8) (38.6)
Sales and marketing (13.5) –
Administrative expenses (13.7) (7.2)
Other gains 9 1.1 –
Operating loss 7 (66.4) (45.8)
Finance income 6 3.5 1.9
Share of profit/(loss) of joint venture 16 0.1 (0.1)
Loss before tax (62.8) (44.0)
Taxation 10 12.8 8.9
Loss for the financial year  (50.0) (35.1)
Loss attributable to:
Owners of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc (49.9) (35.1)
Non–controlling interests  (0.1) –
Loss for the financial year (50.0) (35.1)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences attributable to: 
Owners of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc 27 3.1 –
Total other comprehensive income for the year 3.1 –
Total comprehensive expense for the year (46.9) (35.1)
Total comprehensive expense attributable to:
Owners of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc (46.8) (35.1)
Non–controlling interests (0.1) –
Total comprehensive expense for the year (46.9) (35.1)
Loss per share attributable to owners of the parent during the year (expressed in £ per share)
  £ £
Basic and diluted loss per share
Loss per share from continuing operations 11 (0.20) (0.21)
 
The results for the financial years above are derived entirely from continuing operations.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company  
profit and loss account.
The loss for the parent company for the year was £3.2 million (2014: profit £0.5 million).
The notes on pages 92 to 117 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 86 Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 December 2015
 Notes
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 1.3 0.3
Goodwill 13 81.2 1.8
Intangible assets 14 165.6 0.2
Deferred tax assets 22 17.2 -
Investment in joint venture 16 0.2 0.1
  265.5 2.4
Current assets
Inventories 17 3.0 -
Trade and other receivables 18 5.1 2.7
Current tax assets 10 11.8 8.8
Short-term bank deposits 19 37.8 156.9
Cash and cash equivalents 19 166.0 29.7
  223.7 198.1
Total assets 489.2 200.5
Equity and liabilities
Ordinary shares 23 0.2 0.2
Share premium 25 564.0 297.9
Other reserves 27 2.8 1.3
Accumulated losses 26 (158.5) (108.6)
408.5 190.8
Non-controlling interests 1.2 –
Total equity  409.7 190.8
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 22 31.2 –
   31.2 –
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 20 48.3 9.7
  48.3 9.7
Total liabilities 79.5 9.7
Total equity and liabilities  489.2 200.5
 
The notes on pages 92 to 117 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 86 to 117 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2016 and were signed on its  
behalf by
Steven Harris Julien Cotta 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Registered number: 05822706
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 87 Parent Company statement of financial position
as at 31 December 2015
 Notes
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 15 242.6 3.0
  242.6 3.0
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 185.0 122.5
Short-term bank deposits 19 37.8 156.9
Cash and cash equivalents 19 130.7 18.8
  353.5 298.2
Total assets 596.1 301.2
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners of the Company
Ordinary shares 23 0.2 0.2
Share premium 25 564.0 297.9
Other reserves 27 3.7 1.3
(Accumulated losses)/retained earnings 26 (2.0) 1.2
Total equity 565.9 300.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 30.2 0.6
  30.2 0.6
Total equity and liabilities 596.1 301.2
 
The notes on pages 92 to 117 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 86 to 117 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2016 and were signed on its  
behalf by
Steven Harris Julien Cotta 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Registered number: 05822706
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 88 Consolidated and parent Company statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
 Notes
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash used in operations 28 (64.9) (41.0) (5.8) (28.7)
Tax credit received  9.1 4.1 – –
Net cash used in operating activities (55.8) (36.9) (5.8) (28.7)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 33 (161.9) – (206.8) –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 12 (0.2) (0.3) – –
Purchases of intangible assets 14 (0.1) – – –
Interest received 3.0 0.2 2.9 0.2
Receipt on maturity of forward contract 1.1 – – –
Repayment of borrowings (28.1) – – –
Loans granted to subsidiary undertakings – – (63.5) –
Decrease/(increase) in short–term bank deposits 119.1 (149.8) 119.1 (149.8)
Net cash used in investing activities  (67.1) (149.9) (148.3) (149.6)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 23 266.1 192.5 266.1 192.5
Purchase of treasury shares 32 (0.3) – – –
Transactions with non-controlling interests 27 (7.2) – – –
Net cash generated from financing activities  258.6 192.5 266.1 192.5
      
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 135.7 5.7 112.0 14.2
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 19 29.7 23.5 18.8 3.8
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.5 (0.1) 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 166.0 29.7 130.7 18.8
 
The notes on pages 92 to 117 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 89 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
 Notes
Share  
capital  
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Other
 1
 
reserves 
£m
Accumulated 
losses 
£m
Total  
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total  
equity 
£m
At 1 January 2014 23, 25, 26, 27 0.1 103.4 0.1 (73.5) 30.1 – 30.1 
Comprehensive expense:
Loss for the financial year – – – (35.1) (35.1) – (35.1)
Total comprehensive expense 26 – – – (35.1) (35.1) – (35.1)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of ordinary shares 0.1 194.5 – – 194.6 – 194.6
Employee share option scheme 27 – – 1.2 – 1.2 – 1.2
At 31 December 2014 23, 25, 26, 27 0.2 297.9 1.3 (108.6) 190.8 – 190.8
At 1 January 2015 23, 25, 26, 27 0.2 297.9 1.3 (108.6) 190.8 – 190.8
Loss for the financial year – – – (49.9) (49.9) (0.1) (50.0)
Other comprehensive income 27 – – 3.1 – 3.1 – 3.1
Total comprehensive expense 26, 27 – – 3.1 (49.9) (46.8) (0.1) (46.9)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of ordinary shares 23 – 266.1 – – 266.1 – 266.1
Purchase of own shares 27 – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Employee share option scheme 27 – – 2.7 – 2.7 – 2.7
Non-controlling interests on 
acquisition of subsidiary 33 – – – – – 4.5 4.5
Transactions with  
non-controlling interests 27 – – (4.0) – (4.0) (3.2) (7.2)
At 31 December 2015 23, 25, 26, 27 0.2 564.0 2.8 (158.5) 408.5 1.2 409.7
 
1
 Other reserves include share option reserve, translation reserve, treasury shares reserve, and transactions with NCI reserve
The notes on pages 92 to 117 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 90 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
 Notes
Share  
capital  
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Share option 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings /
(Accumulated 
losses) 
£m
Total  
equity 
£m
At 1 January 2014 23, 25, 26, 27 0.1 103.4 0.1 0.7 104.3
Profit and total comprehensive income 26 – – – 0.5 0.5
Transactions with owners:
Issue of ordinary shares 0.1 194.5 – – 194.6
Employee share option scheme 27 – – 1.2 – 1.2
At 31 December 2014 23, 25, 26, 27 0.2 297.9 1.3 1.2 300.6
At 1 January 2015 23, 25, 26, 27 0.2 297.9 1.3 1.2 300.6
Loss and total comprehensive expense 26 – – – (3.2) (3.2)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of ordinary shares 23 – 266.1 – – 266.1
Employee share option scheme 27 – – 2.4 – 2.4
At 31 December 2015 23, 25, 26, 27 0.2 564.0 3.7 (2.0) 565.9
 
The notes on pages 92 to 117 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 91 Notes to the financial statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
General information
The Group is a specialty biopharmaceutical group focused on the 
development and commercialisation of a range of allergy, asthma and 
respiratory products.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc is a public limited company which is 
listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales. The Company is resident in England and the 
registered office is The Magdalen Centre, Robert Robinson Avenue, 
Oxford Science Park, Oxford, Oxfordshire, England, OX4 4GA.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of this 
financial information are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the financial years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The financial information has been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (‘IFRS’), IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC IC’) 
interpretations endorsed by the European Union and with those parts 
of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared using the historical 
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as stated 
in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
Going concern
Though the Group continues to make losses, the Directors have 
reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, 
taking into account existing cash balances. On the basis of this 
review, the Directors have not identified any material uncertainties to 
the Group’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval 
of the financial statements.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group:
Annual improvements 2011 -  2013 (effective 1 July 2014) (endorsed for 
1 January 2015)
b)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards 
that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the 
Group:
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’, on ‘Classification and measurement’ 
(effective 1 January 2018, not EU endorsed). This is the first part of a 
new standard on classification and measurement of financial assets 
that will replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: 
amortised cost and fair value. All equity instruments are measured  
at fair value.
A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity is holding 
it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent 
principal and interest. Otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss. 
Amortised cost accounting will also be applicable for most financial 
liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded derivatives. The main change is 
that in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, 
the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is 
recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income 
statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. The Group 
is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 on its financial information. The 
Group will also consider the impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contract with customers’ (effective from  
1 January 2018, not EU endorsed), IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ (effective from  
1 January) and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective from 1 January 2019, not  
yet EU endorsed) is currently being assessed for the future impact on  
the Group.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not  
yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact  
on the Group.
Use of estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of 
the financial information and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Estimates and judgements 
are continually made and are based on historic experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Where the Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the 
future, the resulting accounting estimates will seldom exactly match 
actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
Business combinations
The Group accounts for all business combinations under the 
acquisition method. Under the acquisition method, the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. Judgements 
are made in determining the basis on which goodwill arising on 
business combinations is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs). 
Management have determined that the goodwill arising on the 
acquisition of Aerocrine should be allocated between the Aerocrine and 
Circassia CGUs in proportion to the discounted cash flows attributable 
to these CGUs, which are each expected to benefit from the sales 
force and commercial infrastructure available to the Group as a result 
of the acquisition of Aerocrine. Management have determined that the 
goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Prosonix Limited should be 
allocated to Prosonix Limited, being the CGU for impairment testing 
purposes. Estimates are made in relation to the cash flow forecasts, 
probability factors and discount rates used for this purpose.
Fair value of acquired assets
Intangibles – Technology 
In estimating the fair value of Technology, a variation of the Income 
Approach called the Relief from Royalty Method is used. This 
methodology is considered the standard and preferred technique  
to value assets such as trademark, core technology and patents. 
Intangibles – Customer Relationships and IPR&D
The Customer Relationships and IPR&D have been valued based 
on the Excess Earnings Method. This valuation method is based on 
discounting the cash flows that can be attributed to the intangible 
asset, after taking into account the contribution of other assets.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in relation to tax losses 
carried forward in Aerocrine and Prosonix, but only to the extent of 
deferred tax liabilities arising in the same jurisdictions as the brought 
forward losses. Management have concluded that it is not yet probable 
that taxable profits will be available in the relevant jurisdictions to utilise 
brought forward losses in excess of deferred tax liabilities. Judgement 
is required in making this determination. Management anticipate 
that taxable profits will be considered probable for the purposes of 
recognising deferred tax assets under IAS 12 only when there is a 
stable history of profitability in those tax jurisdictions.
Share issue costs
In June 2015 the Group completed an offer and placement of new 
shares to finance the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix. Under 
IFRS incremental costs that are directly attributable to an equity 
transaction that otherwise would have been avoided had the equity 
instruments not been issued are accounted for through equity. Any 
acquisition related costs (for example due diligence) must be expensed 
in the income statement. Note 23 provides further details. There is a 
level of judgement in determining which costs meet the criteria of an 
equity transaction.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 92 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other intangible  
assets have suffered any impairment. The key assumptions used for 
the value in use calculations are given in note 13, and in particular the 
anticipated launch date of products currently under development.  
If the Group is unable to obtain regulatory approval or to commercialise 
its product candidates, or experiences significant delays in doing so, 
this could result in an impairment of the related goodwill and intellectual 
property rights.
Share based payments
Options were valued using the Black Scholes option pricing model or the 
Monte Carlo Simulation depending on the type of option issued. For each 
relevant option grant, individual valuation assumptions were assessed 
based upon conditions at the date of grant. The range of assumptions  
in the calculation of share based payments is given in note 24.
Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which  
the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group  
is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated 
from the date that control ceases. Inter-company transactions, 
balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group 
companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are 
consistent with the policies adopted by the Group.
Joint arrangements
The Group has applied IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements since  
1 January 2013. Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements 
are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending 
on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Circassia 
Pharmaceuticals plc has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements 
and determined them to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are 
accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are 
initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the 
Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements 
in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses 
in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures 
(which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of 
the Group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the Group does not 
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint 
ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the  
joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the 
transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group. 
Segmental reporting
The Group has three business segments, Allergy, Respiratory, and 
NIOX
®
. This is consistent with the internal reporting provided to 
the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-
maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance, has been identified as the Executive Directors, who make 
strategic decisions.
Clinical study expenses
Where payments to clinical study sites are made in advance for  
the purchase of stocks of materials for use in clinical studies, the 
relevant costs are included in receivables as prepaid clinical study 
expenses. Expenses are charged to the income statement as clinical 
study services are carried out by third party suppliers, or clinical study 
materials are received. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents, 
short-term bank deposits, receivables and payables arising directly 
from operations. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and short-term 
deposits which have an original maturity of three months or less and 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash. Such assets are 
classified as current, where management intend to dispose of the asset 
within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. Bank deposits with 
maturity of more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period 
are classified as non-current assets.
Where derivatives exist in the financial year, they are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each reporting date, 
with any resulting gain or loss recognised through profit or loss. 
The Group does not have any committed borrowing facilities, as its 
cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits are sufficient to finance 
its current operations. Cash balances are mainly held on short and 
medium term deposits with quality financial institutions, in line with the 
Group’s policy to minimise the risk of loss. The main risks associated 
with the Group’s financial instruments relate to interest rate risk and 
foreign currency risk (note 2). 
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received 
from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight line 
basis over the period of the lease. 
Goodwill and Intangible assets
Intangible fixed assets, relating to goodwill, customer relationships, 
technology and intellectual property rights acquired through licensing 
or assigning patents and know-how are carried at historic cost, less 
accumulated amortisation, where the useful economic life of the 
asset is finite and the asset will probably generate economic benefits 
exceeding costs.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the 
cost of intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Intangible asset Estimated useful lives
IPR&D 5 – 10 years
Customer Relationships 18 years
Technology 15 – 20 years
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents  
the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any  
non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition date  
fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the  
fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is allocated to each of the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that 
are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each 
unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents 
the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for 
internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at the operating 
segment level.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill 
is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value 
in use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently 
reversed.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 93 Notes to the financial statements continued
Where an acquired intangible asset is not yet available for use in the 
manner intended by management, the asset is tested annually for 
impairment by allocating the assets to the CGUs to which they relate. 
Amortisation would commence when product candidates underpinned 
by the intellectual property rights become available for commercial 
use. Amortisation would be calculated on a straight line basis over the 
shorter of the remaining useful life of the intellectual property or the 
estimated sales life of the product candidates. 
Expenditure on product development is capitalised as an intangible 
asset and amortised over the expected useful economic life of the 
product candidate concerned. Capitalisation commences from the 
point at which technical feasibility and commercial viability of the 
product candidate can be demonstrated and the Group is satisfied that 
it is probable that future economic benefits will result from the product 
candidate once completed. Capitalisation ceases when the product 
candidate receives regulatory approval for launch. No such costs have 
been capitalised to date.
Expenditure on research and development activities that do not meet 
the above criteria, including ongoing costs associated with acquired 
intellectual property rights and intellectual property rights generated 
internally by the Group, is charged to the income statement as incurred. 
Intellectual property and in-process research and development from 
acquisitions are recognised as intangible assets at fair value. Any 
residual excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets in  
an acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Computer Software
Expenditure on software costs are capitalised as an intangible asset 
and amortised over the expected useful economic life of the software. 
Until such an asset is fully developed, the costs are capitalised and 
classified within intangibles assets as ‘Software in development’. These 
costs are not amortised until the software has been fully developed and 
operational, at which point the total cost of the software development is 
amortised over its estimated useful life.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of the acquisition cost and the net 
realisable value. The FIFO (first in, first out) principle is used to calculate 
the value of inventories. Inventories mainly comprise products for sale 
and stocks of components for the service activities in Sweden and the 
US. The acquisition value comprises all expenses for purchases. The 
net realisable value is the expected sale price less expected costs for 
preparation and selling.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill or 
intangible assets not ready for use, are not subject to amortisation 
and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject 
to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by 
which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs 
to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, 
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets 
other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for 
possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. Charges  
or credits for impairment are passed through the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less 
depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are 
included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the  
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of 
replaced parts is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance  
are charged to the income statement during the financial period in 
which they are incurred. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the 
cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Property, plant and equipment Depreciation rate
Leasehold improvements Over the life of the unbreakable  
portion of the lease
Plant and equipment 10% - 33%
Fixtures and fittings 20%
 
Individually significant tangible assets that are intended to be held by 
the Group for use in the production or supply of goods and services or 
for administrative purposes and that are expected to provide economic 
benefit for more than one year are capitalised. All other assets of 
insignificant value are charged to the income statement in the year  
of acquisition.
Costs incurred relating to an asset that is not yet complete are 
capitalised and held as Assets under construction until they are 
brought into use. The asset is then transferred to the appropriate  
asset class and depreciated in line with the policy above.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any 
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there 
is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, 
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade 
receivable is determined to be un-collectable, it is written off, firstly 
against any provision available and then to the income statement. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are credited 
to the income statement. Other receivables are recognised initially at 
fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for 
impairment of other receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that  
have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.  
They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at 
amortised cost. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities  
if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented  
as non-current liabilities.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 94 Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash  
equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks,  
and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities  
of three months or less from the date of original investment. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Employee benefit costs
The Group makes contributions to defined contribution personal 
pension schemes for its Directors and employees. The pension cost 
charge recognised in the year represents amounts payable by the 
Group to the funds. The Group has no further payment obligations 
once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based 
compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from 
employees as consideration for equity instruments (options) of the 
Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange  
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total 
amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value  
of the options granted:
 — including the effect of any market performance conditions  
(for example, an entity’s share price);
 — excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets 
and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time 
period); and
 — including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (for example, 
the requirement for employees to save).
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in 
assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. 
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the 
period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be 
satisfied.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to 
the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, 
measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised 
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary 
undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent entity 
financial statements.
The Group’s employees participate in various share option schemes 
as disclosed in note 24. Equity settled share based payments 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on 
a straight line basis over the vesting period of the award. At the 
end of each reporting period the Group revises its estimate of the 
number of options that are expected to become exercisable. The 
financial consequences of revisions to the original estimates, if any, 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity. 
The fair value of share options is measured using either the Black 
Scholes option pricing model or the Monte Carlo Simulation. This is 
dependent on the conditions attached to each of the issued options. 
Where conditions are non-market based the Black Scholes option 
pricing model is used. Where market based conditions are attached to 
options, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation. 
Other employee benefits
The expected cost of compensated short-term absence (e.g. holidays) 
is recognised when employees render services that increased their 
entitlement. An accrual is made for holidays earned but not taken, and 
prepayments recognised for holidays taken in excess of days earned. 
Revenue 
Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or 
receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of 
the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value added tax and 
trade discounts and after elimination of intra-Group sales. Income is 
reported as follows: 
Sale of goods 
The Group sells medical technology equipment that enables 
inflammation of the airways to be measured as well as consumable 
items and spare parts. Sales are reported as income when the 
significant risks and benefits have transferred to the buyer and the 
seller no longer has any significant control over the goods. The Group 
provides 12 month guarantees for certain products and includes a 
provision for estimated future claims. 
Licence income 
Technology and product licensing revenue represents amounts earned 
for licences granted under licensing agreements, including up-front 
payments, milestone payments and technology access fees. Revenues 
are recognised when this income becomes non-refundable under 
the terms of the licence and where the Group’s obligations related to 
the revenues have been completed. Refundable licensing revenue is 
treated as deferred until such time that it is no longer refundable. In 
general, up-front payments are deferred and amortised in line with the 
period of development. Milestone payments relating to defined project 
achievements are recognised as income when the milestone  
is accomplished.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an accrued basis and represents 
income earned as a percentage of product sales in accordance with 
the relevant agreement net of any amounts contractually payable to 
others under the terms of the relevant royalty agreement.
Foreign currency translation
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated 
into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial 
year. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at 
the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Foreign 
exchange differences are taken to the statement of comprehensive 
income in the year in which they arise and presented within ‘Finance 
costs or income’.
Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
into the Group presentational currency, are recognised as a separate 
element of other comprehensive income. Cumulative exchange 
differences are presented in a separate component of equity entitled 
Translation reserve.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 95 Notes to the financial statements continued
Taxation including deferred tax
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year, adjusted 
for items which are non-assessable or disallowed. It is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of 
each reporting period. 
The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for 
certain research and development expenditure. The amount included in 
the financial statements at the year end represents the credit receivable 
by the Group for the year and adjustments to prior years. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of 
temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities in the financial information and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.  
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the average tax rates that are expected to 
apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive 
income, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
2. Financial and capital risk management
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the 
ability to continue as a going concern and ensure that sufficient capital 
is in place to fund the Group’s research activities. The Group’s principal 
method of adjusting the capital available is through issuing new shares. 
During the year, the Company issued 95,469,537 Ordinary shares 
which funded the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix. The shares 
were offered at 288.05p each, raising gross proceeds of £275.0 million. 
The Group’s capital is comprised of share capital and share premium, 
which are disclosed in notes 23 and 25 respectively. The Group 
monitors the availability of capital with regard to its forecast future 
expenditure on an ongoing basis.
Transaction and translation risk
Foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect the Group’s results 
and financial condition. The Group prepares its financial statements 
in pound sterling, but a significant proportion of its expenditure and 
subsidiary results are in various currencies including US dollars, 
Swedish krona, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs and Euros. The Group 
does not currently hedge against translation risk.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s simple structure and the lack of external debt financing 
reduces the range of financial risks to which it is exposed. Monitoring 
of financial risk is part of the Board’s ongoing risk management, the 
effectiveness of which is reviewed annually. The Group’s agreed 
policies are implemented by the Chief Executive Officer, who submits 
periodic reports to the Board. 
Foreign exchange risk 
The majority of operating costs are denominated in Sterling, United 
States dollars, Canadian dollars, Euro, Swiss francs or Swedish krona. 
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and 
recognised assets and liabilities.
In relation to foreign currency risk, the Group’s policy is to hold  
the majority of its funds in Sterling, and to use short-medium term 
currency purchase options (including spot purchases and forward 
contracts) and interest-bearing foreign currency deposits to manage 
short-medium term fluctuations in exchange rates. 
The Group sometimes uses short-term currency purchase options  
and interest-bearing deposits of Swiss francs and Euros to manage 
short-term fluctuations in exchange rates. The Group uses foreign 
currency forward contracts to manage medium term fluctuations in 
Swedish krona, Canadian and United States dollars exchange rates. 
At 31 December 2015, if the Euro had weakened/strengthened by  
5% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, the post tax 
loss for the year would have been £0.5 million (2014: £nil) lower/higher, 
as a result of net foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of  
Euro-denominated payables, receivables and foreign exchange  
losses/gains on translation of Euro-denominated bank balances.
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening/
strengthening of the US dollar against Sterling with all other variables 
held constant would have been a decrease/increase of £1.3 million 
(2014: £nil).
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening/
strengthening of the Canadian dollar against Sterling with all other 
variables held constant would have been a decrease/increase of  
£0.4 million (2014: £nil). 
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening/
strengthening of the Swiss franc against Sterling with all other variables 
held constant would have been a decrease/increase of £0.4 million 
(2014: £nil).
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening/
strengthening of the Swedish krona against Sterling with all other 
variables held constant would have been a decrease/increase of  
£1.1 million (2014: £nil).
The change in foreign exchange rates that is assessed to be 
reasonably likely for each currency in 2015 is 5%.
The Group is also exposed to currency translation risk in respect of 
the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas 
subsidiaries. At present, the Group does not consider this to be 
a significant risk since the Group does not intend to move assets 
between Group companies.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy in relation to interest rate risk is to monitor short and 
medium term interest rates and to place cash on deposit for periods 
that optimise the amount of interest earned while maintaining access to 
sufficient funds to meet day to day cash requirements. 
The Group does not have any committed external borrowing facilities, 
as its cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposit balances are 
sufficient to finance its current operations. Consequently, there is no 
material exposure to interest rate risk in respect of interest payable. 
If interest rates had been 10 basis points higher/lower the impact on 
net loss in 2015 would have been an increase/decrease of £0.2 million 
(2014: £0.2 million) due to changes in the amount of interest receivable. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 96  At 31 December
Less than  
1 year  
2015  
£m
Less than  
1 year  
2014  
£m
Trade and other payables 48.3 9.7
Total 48.3 9.7
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
There were no derivatives at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014. 
Credit risks
The Group’s policy following Admission to the London Stock Exchange 
is to place funds with financial institutions which have a minimum credit 
rating with Fitch IBCA of A- long term / F1 short-term. During 2015 the 
Group placed funds on deposit with 10 banks (2014: 12 banks). The 
Group does not allocate a quota to individual institutions but seeks 
to diversify its investments, where this is consistent with achieving 
competitive rates of return. It is the Group’s policy to place not more 
than £35 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) with any one 
counterparty.
The value of financial instruments held represents the maximum 
exposure that the Group has to them. There is no collateral held for this 
type of credit risk.
No credit limits were exceeded during any of the periods reported, 
and management does not expect any material losses from non-
performance by these counterparties.
Cash flow and liquidity risk
Funds are generally placed on deposit with the maturity profile of 
investments being structured to ensure that sufficient liquid funds 
are available to meet operating requirements. The Directors do not 
consider that there is presently a material cash flow or liquidity risk.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant 
maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet 
date to the contractual maturity date. There were no financial liabilities 
outstanding for periods greater than one year. The amounts disclosed 
in the table are the contracted undiscounted cash flows:
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 97 Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Operating segments
The chief operating decision-maker (the Executive Directors) are responsible for making key operating decisions in the Group. Assessment of 
performance and decisions regarding the allocation of resources are made by operating segment. 
The table below presents information regarding the Group’s operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2015. The group had one 
single operating segment in the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Allergy relates to a range of immunotherapy development products for the treatment of allergy. NIOX
®
 relates to the portfolio of products used 
to improve asthma diagnosis and management by measuring fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) and Respiratory relates to the portfolio of 
asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease product candidates.
Segment operating loss 
Allergy 
£m 
NIOX
®
 
£m
Respiratory 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue (from external customers by country,  
based on the destination of the customer)
US – 3.6 0.3 3.9
EU – 3.9 0.2 4.1
Other countries – 2.8 – 2.8
Total segment revenue – 10.3 0.5 10.8
Research and development (37.3) (2.0) (5.5) (44.8)
Sales and marketing (5.2) (7.5) – (12.7)
Administrative expenses (10.6) (2.2) (0.9) (13.7)
Depreciation and amortisation
 1
(0.1) (2.2) (0.6) (2.9)
Other 1.1 (4.1) (0.1) (3.1)
Operating loss (52.1) (7.7) (6.6) (66.4)
 
1
 Depreciation and amortisation is included on the face of the statement of comprehensive income within ‘Research and development costs’ and ‘Sales and marketing’
Assets by segment
Allergy 
£m
NIOX
®
 
£m
Respiratory 
£m
 
Unallocated 
£m
Total 
£m
Cash, cash equivalents and short term deposits 200.4 0.4 3.0 – 203.8
Property, plant and equipment – – – 1.3 1.3
Goodwill 72.1 4.7 4.4 – 81.2
Intangible assets 0.4 57.7 107.5 – 165.6
Deferred tax assets – – – 17.2 17.2
Investment in joint venture – – – 0.2 0.2
Inventories – – – 3.0 3.0
Trade and other receivables – – – 5.1 5.1
Current tax assets – – – 11.8 11.8
Total assets 272.9 62.8 114.9 38.6 489.2
 
4. Revenue 
The Group derives the following types of revenue:
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Sale of goods 10.3 –
Licence and milestone revenue 0.5 –
Total revenue 10.8 –
 
5. Employees and directors 
The average monthly number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was:
By activity
2015  
Number
2014  
Number
Office and management 49 15
Sales and marketing 72 –
Research and development 83 34
Total average headcount 204 49
 
The average number of administration staff employed by the Company during the year, including Executive Directors was 2 (2014: 2).
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 98 Group Company
Employee benefit costs
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 13.2 6.1 1.5 1.8
Social security costs 2.2 0.8 0.1 0.2
Other pension costs 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.1
Share options expense 2.7 1.2 – –
Total employee benefit costs 18.6 8.5 1.7 2.1
 
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for its Executive Directors and employees. Contributions of £52,979 (included in 
other payables) were payable to the funds at the year end (2014: £29,876).
The details of Directors of the Group who received emoluments from the Group during the year are shown in the Annual report on remuneration 
in the Remuneration Committee report.
Key management personnel
Key management includes Directors (Executive and Non-executive), the VP of Commercial Operations (leave date 8 April 2015), the Chief 
Commercial Officer, the General Counsel, VP of Human Resources and the Chief Business Officer (start date 16 June 2015). The compensation 
paid or payable to key management is set out below. 
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Short term employee benefits (including bonus) 3.4 3.3
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Share based payment 1.1 0.8
Total 4.7 4.3
 
6. Finance income
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Finance income:
Bank interest receivable 1.7 1.7
Net gain on foreign exchange 1.8 0.2
Total finance income 3.5 1.9
 
7. Operating expenses
Operating loss is stated after charging the following:
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Employee benefit costs (note 5) 18.6 8.5
Externally contracted research & development 36.4 33.4
Legal and professional fees including patent costs 6.8 1.8
Depreciation
 1
0.5 –
Amortisation
 1
2.4 –
Operating lease 0.8 0.3
 
1
  Depreciation and amortisation is included on the face of the statement of comprehensive income within ‘Research and development costs’ and ‘Sales  
and marketing’
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 99 Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Auditor’s remuneration
Services provided by the Group’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group obtained services from the auditor as detailed below:
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the parent 
company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.1
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.1 –
Other assurance services
 1
0.2 0.2
Total 0.5 0.3
 
1
  Other assurance services in 2015 relate to services performed in respect of the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix. These costs were offset against the share 
premium reserve.
 
9. Other gains
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Forward contract foreign exchange gain 1.1 –
 
10. Taxation
The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and development expenditure. The amount included in the 
financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 represents the credit receivable by the Group for the year and adjustments 
to prior years. The 2015 amounts have not yet been agreed with the relevant tax authorities.  
 
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
United Kingdom corporation tax research and development credit (10.3) (8.8)
Adjustments in respect of prior year (0.3) (0.1)
Movement in deferred tax (2.2) –
Total tax (12.8) (8.9)
 
The tax credit for the year is higher (2014: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). The differences are 
explained below:
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (62.8) (44.0)
Loss on ordinary activities before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax 
in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (12.7) (9.5)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (permanent differences) 0.8 (1.0)
Research & development relief uplift (4.0) (2.4)
Utilisation of losses not previously recognised (0.2) –
Adjustments in respect of prior year (0.3) (0.1)
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 3.6 4.1
Current tax credit for the year (12.8) (8.9)
 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had tax losses to be carried forward of approximately £223.3 million (2014: £76.4 million).
At 31 December 2015, the Group has current tax assets arising from tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and development 
expenditure of £11.8 million (2014: £8.8 million).
A reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020 has been substantively enacted.  
UK deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised at a rate of 18% (2014: 20%).
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 100 11. Loss per share
Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number  
of Ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
 2015 2014 
Loss from continuing operations attributable to ordinary equity owners  
of the parent company (£m) (49.9) (35.1)
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue (Number) 249,578,520 169,118,824
Loss per share £(0.20) £(0.21)
 
As net losses from continuing operations were recorded in 2015 and 2014, the dilutive potential shares are anti-dilutive for the earnings per  
share calculation.
 
12. Property, plant and equipment 
Group
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Assets under 
construction 
£m
Total property, 
plant and 
equipment  
£m
At 1 January 2014
Cost – – – – –
Accumulated depreciation – – – – –
Net book amount – – – – –
Year ended 31 December 2014
Opening net book amount – – – – –
Additions 0.3 – – – 0.3
Depreciation – – – – –
Closing net book amount 0.3 – – – 0.3
At 31 December 2014
Cost 0.3 – – – 0.3
Accumulated depreciation – – – – –
Net book amount 0.3 – – – 0.3
Year ended 31 December 2015
Opening net book amount 0.3 – – – 0.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 33) 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.5 1.3
Additions – – 0.1 0.1 0.2
Depreciation (0.2) – (0.3) – (0.5)
Transfers –  – 0.6 (0.6) –
Closing net book amount 0.3 0.1 0.9 – 1.3
At 31 December 2015
Cost 0.5 0.1 1.2 – 1.8
Accumulated depreciation (0.2) – (0.3) – (0.5)
Net book amount 0.3 0.1 0.9 – 1.3
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 101 Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Goodwill 
 £m
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014
Cost 1.8
Accumulated impairment –
Net book amount 1.8
Year ended 31 December 2015
Opening net book amount 1.8
Acquisition of businesses (note 33) 77.2
Exchange differences 2.2
Closing net book amount 81.2
At 31 December 2015
Cost 81.2
Accumulated impairment –
Net book amount 81.2
 
During 2015, Circassia completed the acquisition of two businesses, resulting in the recognition of £77.2 million of goodwill. The majority of this 
goodwill related to the acquisition of Aerocrine AB. This goodwill was allocated to the Aerocrine and Circassia cash generating units (CGUs) for 
impairment testing purposes as the benefits of the Aerocrine acquisition are split between these CGUs. The goodwill recognised on the acquisition 
of Prosonix Limited has been allocated to Prosonix Limited, being the CGU for impairment testing purposes.
The goodwill in 2014 arose on the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Circassia Limited from Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP on  
17 July 2006. The goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year end exchange rates, is allocated to the following CGUs:
 
Cash generating unit
2015 
 £m 
2014 
£m 
Circassia 72.1 1.8
Aerocrine 4.7 –
Prosonix 4.4 –
 81.2 1.8
 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are assessed using a value in use model. Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the 
projected risk-adjusted pre-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated. 
The goodwill arising on Aerocrine is attributable to the benefit of having an established sales force with future customer relationships. A large 
element of the advantages of having an established sales force will accrue to the Circassia business as its products can be cross sold to the 
same customers by this sales force. The acquisition of Aerocrine was based on a strategic benefit to Circassia in leveraging the existing sales 
force within the business to generate future sales within Circassia. Goodwill has been allocated based on the proportion of discounted cash flows 
attributable to each CGU. For this reason, 94% of the goodwill acquired on acquisition of Aerocrine has been allocated to the Circassia CGU. 
The value in use for Aerocrine and Circassia was calculated over a nine year period using a discount factor of 10% (being a weighted average 
cost of capital rate for the Group used by some analysts covering the Group). The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections. In light of the 
stage of development of the product candidates these cover a nine year period. Cash flows beyond the nine year period were extrapolated 
using the estimated terminal growth rates stated below. The growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the business. The 
discount rate used is pre-tax and reflects specific risks relating to the Group and uncertainties surrounding the cash flow projections, particularly 
in relation to the assumed successful launch of the Group’s products in the expected timeframe and the resulting sales.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 102 The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations for Circassia, Aerocrine and Prosonix are as follows:
Anticipated launch dates Group product candidate portfolio 2016  -  2025.
Research and development costs Based on management forecasts of clinical study costs for its product candidates, as well as 
related expenses associated with the regulatory approval process and commercialisation.
Sales value, volume and growth rates Estimates of sales value, volume and growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and 
external market information and market research commissioned by the Company.
Advertising and promotion investment Based on management forecasts of advertising and promotion required in the key territories.
Profit margins Margins reflect management’s forecasts of sales values and costs of manufacture adjusted for its 
expectations of market developments.
Period of specified projected cash flows 9 years.
Terminal growth rate Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rate: 
2015 1% 
2014 0%
Discount rate Discount rates based on Group weighted average cost of capital, adjusted where appropriate. The 
discount factor in 2015 has been adjusted to reflect the change in the risk profile of the business 
following the acquisitions made during the year: 
2015  10% 
2014  20%
 
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a change to key assumptions that are reasonably possible is unlikely to result 
in an impairment of the related goodwill. 
Impact of possible changes in key assumptions
Delayed launch of key product candidate in Prosonix
Management have in their sensitivity analysis assessed the impact of the possibility that the launch of one of the key product candidates in the 
Prosonix CGU is delayed by a year.
Reduced annual growth rates in Aerocrine
Management have in their sensitivity analysis assessed the impact of a reduced Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) in Aerocrine.
Product failure in late stage clinical trials
Management have in their sensitivity analysis assessed the impact of a lead product failure in late stage clinical trials including failure of cat 
immunotherapy.
The Directors and management have considered and assessed reasonably possible changes for other key assumptions and have not identified 
any instances that could cause the carrying amount of the above CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount, with the exception of lead product 
failure in late stage clinical trials, which would be likely to result in lower than forecast sales and costs in the Circassia and/or Prosonix CGUs such 
that goodwill would be impaired.
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 103 Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets 
Group
IPR&D 
£m
Customer 
relationships 
£m
Technology 
£m
Other 
£m
Total intangible 
assets  
£m
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014
Cost – – – 0.5 0.5
Accumulated amortisation and impairment – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Net book amount – – – 0.2 0.2
Year ended 31 December 2014:
Opening and closing net book amount – – – 0.2 0.2
Year ended 31 December 2015:
Opening net book amount – – – 0.2 0.2
Acquisition of businesses (note 33) 88.9 29.9 46.0 1.2 166.0
Additions – – – 0.1 0.1
Amortisation charge – (0.9) (0.9) (0.6) (2.4)
Exchange differences – 0.9 0.8 – 1.7
Closing net book amount 88.9 29.9 45.9 0.9 165.6
At 31 December 2015
Cost 88.9 30.8 46.8 1.8 168.3
Accumulated amortisation and impairment – (0.9) (0.9) (0.9) (2.7)
Net book amount 88.9 29.9 45.9 0.9 165.6
 
An impairment test is performed annually based on the value in use of the intangible assets. 
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and intangible assets have suffered any impairment and tests more frequently when events or 
circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable. No such adverse events or circumstances have arisen in the year. 
Key assumptions and sensitivities used in the impairment review are disclosed in note 13.
In-Process Research & Development (IPR&D)
IPR&D comprise a portfolio of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease product candidates still in development. Note 33 ‘Business 
combinations’ gives details of additions through business combinations in the year. 
The IPR&D has been initially valued using the Excess Earnings Method. This valuation method is based on discounting the cash flows that are 
attributable to the intangible asset, after taking into account the contribution of other assets. IPR&D assets are tested for impairment on the 
same basis. 
Customer relationships
Customer relationships represent the existing customers, as at the date of acquisition that are expected to continue to support the business.  
A remaining useful life of 18 years was determined at acquisition. Amortisation has been calculated on a straight line basis over this period from 
the date of acquisition.
Technology
Prosonix achieves a sophisticated level of control over the physicochemical properties of drug particles via an integrated platform of unique and 
proprietary particle engineering technologies and formulation processes. The Relief from Royalty Method was used to determine the fair value of 
the acquired Technology. In the Relief from Royalty Method, estimates of the value of these types of intangible assets are made by capitalising 
the royalties saved because the company owns the intangible asset. A remaining useful life of 20 years was determined at acquisition and 
amortisation will commence when the products underpinned by this technology become available for commercial use. A value in use model is 
used in testing for impairment.
Aerocrine has been developing its technology to measure fractional exhaled nitric oxide (“FeNO”) since the mid-1990s. The Company was the 
first to develop an instrument for the measurement of FeNO and is continuously developing the measurement of FeNO as a valuable tool in the 
management of airway inflammation. The valuation of the Technology was based on pre-determined hypothetical royalty rate attributable to the 
use of the Technology. The estimated remaining useful life of the Technology is 15 years. Amortisation has been calculated on a straight line basis 
over this period from the date of acquisition.
Other
Other intangible assets relate to licences and software in development. The software in development relates to the development of a new 
financial reporting software platform that was not complete at the year end. Once this is complete and the system fully operational, it will be 
amortised over the determined useful economic life.
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 104 15. Investments in subsidiaries
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Investments in subsidiaries at 1 January 3.0 1.8
Investment in Prosonix Limited 100.3 –
Investment in Aerocrine AB 136.9 –
Equity settled instruments granted to employees of subsidiaries 2.4 1.2
Investments in subsidiaries at 31 December 242.6 3.0
The capital contribution relating to share based payment is for 5,532,518 (2014: 3,165,857) 0.08p share options granted by the Company to 
employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group. Further details on the Group’s share option schemes can be found in note 24.
Details of the Company’s related entities are provided below. All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation and the Directors believe that the 
fair value of the investment in all subsidiaries exceeds their carrying values. 
Name Country of Incorporation Nature of business
Proportion of Ordinary 
shares held
Adiga Life Sciences Canada Pharmaceutical research 50%
Circassia Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100%
Circassia Pharma Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100%
Circassia Pharmaceuticals Inc USA Pharmaceutical research 100%
Prosonix Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100%
Aerocrine AB Sweden
Development and sale of devices for 
management of asthma 97.9%
Aerocrine Inc USA
Development and sale of devices for 
management of asthma 97.9%
Aerocrine GmbH Switzerland Sale of devices for management of asthma 97.9%
Aerocrine AG Germany Sale of devices for management of asthma 97.9%
Aerocrine Limited UK Sale of devices for management of asthma 97.9%
 
16. Investment in joint venture
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At 1 January 0.1 0.2
Share of profit/(loss) 0.1 (0.1)
At 31 December 0.2 0.1
 
Nature of investment in joint venture 2015 and 2014
Name of entity
Place of business/ 
country of Incorporation % of ownership interest Nature of the relationship Measurement method
Adiga Life Sciences Canada 50 Note 1 Equity
Note 1 
Adiga Life Sciences (“Adiga”) is a joint venture with McMaster University in Canada for early epitope and mechanistic clinical studies. Adiga is a 
private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
There are no contingent liabilities or commitments relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 105 Notes to the financial statements continued
Summarised financial information for joint venture
Set out below is the summarised financial information for Adiga which is accounted for using the equity method.
 
Summarised statement of financial position at 31 December
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Current assets
 Trade and other receivables 1.2 0.1
 Cash 0.2 0.7
 1.4 0.8
Current liabilities
 Trade payables (0.9) (0.5)
 Other payables (0.1) (0.1)
 (1.0) (0.6)
Net assets 0.4 0.2
 
Summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Revenue 2.3 4.9
Research & development costs (2.6) (5.9)
Administration expense (0.2) -
Loss from continuing operations (0.5) (1.0)
Income tax income 0.7 0.8
Post tax profit/(loss) from continuing operations 0.2 (0.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 0.2 (0.2)
 
The information above reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in accounting 
policies between the Group and the joint venture (and not Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc’s share of those amounts).
Reconciliation of summarised financial information
Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Company’s interest in the joint venture.
Summarised financial information
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Opening net assets 1 January 0.2 0.4
Profit/(loss) for the year 0.2 (0.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – –
Closing net assets 0.4 0.2
Interest in joint venture @ 50% 0.2 0.1
Carrying value 0.2 0.1
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 106 17. Inventories
 
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Finished goods 3.0 –
 
Inventories recognised as an expense during the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to £3.6 million (2014: £nil). These were included in 
‘Cost of sales’.
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £0.5 million (2014: £nil). These were recognised as an expense during the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and included in ‘Cost of sales’.
18. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Trade receivables 3.0 – – –
Other receivables 1.4 0.7 0.3 –
Prepayments and accrued interest 0.7 2.0 0.2 1.5
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings – – 184.5 121.0
Total trade and other receivables 5.1 2.7 185.0 122.5
 
The fair value of other receivables are their current book values. Included within receivables is £0.3 million (2014: £nil) of trade receivables that 
were past due at the end of the reporting period but have not been impaired. 
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings are amounts provided by the Company to its subsidiaries in order to undertake studies. The receivable 
is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed date of repayment. Recoverability of the amount is dependent on the success of those studies.
The carrying amounts of the Group and Company receivables, excluding prepayments and recoverable taxes, are denominated in the following 
currencies:
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
UK pound 0.4 1.5 176.2 122.5
United States dollar 1.4 – 4.8 –
Swedish krona 0.9 – 2.0 –
Euro 1.1 – 2.0 –
 3.8 1.5 185.0 122.5
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 107 Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Short-term bank deposit, with original maturity:
More than 3 months 37.8 156.9 37.8 156.9
Total short-term bank deposits 37.8 156.9 37.8 156.9
Cash and cash equivalents:
Cash at bank and in hand 166.0 29.7 130.7 18.8
Total cash and cash equivalents 166.0 29.7 130.7 18.8
 
The Group and Company cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held with institutions with the following Fitch IBCA long term rating:
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
AA- 33.1 51.5 0.5 40.6
A+ 72.7 35.0 70.0 35.0
A 90.7 92.1 90.7 92.0
A- 7.3 8.0 7.3 8.1
 203.8 186.6 168.5 175.7
 
The Group and Company cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held in the following currencies at 31 December:
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
UK pound 138.3 157.9 135.5 154.5
United States dollar 22.2 11.7 20.5 11.3
Canadian dollar 8.5 9.5 7.3 8.0
Euro 7.5 2.0 5.2 1.9
Swiss franc 7.1 5.5 – –
Swedish krona 20.2 – – –
 203.8 186.6 168.5 175.7
 
20. Trade and other payables
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Trade payables 5.1 2.7 0.1 0.3
Social security and other taxes 0.3 0.2 – –
Accruals 12.0 6.8 0.1 0.3
Other payables 0.9 – – –
Contingent consideration
 1
30.0 – 30.0 –
Total trade and other payables 48.3 9.7 30.2 0.6
 
1
  Details regarding the contingent consideration are disclosed in note 33. The contingent consideration arrangement requires the Group to pay the former owners 
of Prosonix Limited £30.0 million upon the Company receiving a product marketing authorisation in respect of Prosonix Limited’s lead product in the United 
Kingdom on or before 31 December 2016 or £15.0 million on or before 31 December 2017. UK marketing approval was received during the year and the contingent 
consideration of £30.0 million was paid on 6 January 2016. The fair value of the contingent consideration is therefore considered to be equal to its book value and is 
no longer contingent. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 108 21. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and 
other payables and contingent consideration. Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to financial and capital risk 
management (note 2). 
The Group had the following financial instruments at 31 December each year:
Assets
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 166.0 29.7
Short-term bank deposits 37.8 156.9
Trade and other receivables 3.8 1.5
Loans and receivables 207.6 188.1
 
Liabilities
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Trade and other payables – current 47.5 9.7
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 47.5 9.7
 
The Company had the following financial instruments at 31 December each year
Assets
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 130.7 18.8
Short-term bank deposits 37.8 156.9
Other receivables 0.5 1.5
Receivable from subsidiary undertaking 184.5 121.0
Loans and receivables 353.5 298.2
 
Liabilities
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Trade and other payables – current 30.2 0.6
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 30.2 0.6
 
Cash balances comprise floating rate instant access deposits earning interest at prevailing bank rates.  
Short-term deposits earn interest at fixed rates.
In accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement’ the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives 
that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. There were no such derivatives 
identified at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
Fair value 
The Directors consider that the fair values of the Group’s financial instruments do not differ significantly from their book values. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 109 Notes to the financial statements continued
22. Deferred taxation
 
Intangibles 
£m
Tax losses 
£m
Net deferred tax liability 
£m
As at 1 January – – –
Acquisitions 34.0 (17.8) 16.2
Change in rate (2.2) 0.5 (1.7)
(Credit)/charge to the income statement (0.6) 0.1 (0.5)
As at 31 December 2015 31.2 (17.2) 14.0
 
On acquisition of Aerocrine AB and Prosonix Limited, the Group recognised a net deferred tax liability of £16.2 million, comprising a 
deferred tax liability of £34.0 million, offset by a deferred tax asset arising in the same jurisdictions of £17.8 million.  
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 31.2 –
Deferred tax assets (17.2) –
Total deferred tax position 14.0 –
 
The Group has the following unrecognised potential deferred tax assets as at 31 December: 
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Losses 40.2 15.4
Accelerated capital allowances 0.5 –
Share based payments and provisions 1.7 1.3
Total unrecognised deferred tax asset 42.4 16.7
 
23. Share capital 
Authorised, called up and fully paid
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
284,889,171 (2014: 189,419,634) Ordinary shares of 0.08p each 0.2 0.2
On 11 June 2015, the Company issued 95,469,537 Ordinary shares which funded the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix. The shares were 
offered at 288.05p each, raising gross proceeds of £275.0 million.
Deal costs relating to the acquisitions and the share issue were £12.8 million, of which £8.8 million was offset against the Share Premium Account 
and £4.0 million of indirect Admission costs were included in the income statement.
24. Share based payments
Share options
Options have been awarded under the Circassia PSP Share Option Scheme (“the PSP Scheme”), the Circassia EMI Share Option Scheme (“the 
EMI Scheme”) and the Circassia Unapproved Share Option Scheme (“the Unapproved Scheme”). 
The share options outstanding can be summarised as follows: 
 
2015  
Number of  
Ordinary shares  
(‘000)
2014  
Number of  
Ordinary shares  
(‘000)
PSP Scheme
 (i)
4,336 1,969
EMI Scheme
 (ii)
535 535
Unapproved Scheme
 (iii)
661 661
 5,532 3,165
 
The contractual life of all options is 10 years and the options cannot normally be exercised before the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
(i)  Options granted under the PSP Scheme do not have a fixed exercise price and are subject to additional vesting performance conditions.  
The performance conditions state that a proportion of an award shall vest subject to the Company Total Shareholder Return (TSR) ranking 
against the Comparator Index TSR and the remaining shall vest subject to the meeting of certain strategic Company objectives.
(ii) Options granted under the EMI Scheme have a fixed exercise price based on the market price at the date of grant. 
(iii) Options granted under the Unapproved Scheme also have a fixed exercise price based on the market price at the date of grant. 
The movement in share options outstanding is summarised in the following table: 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 110 2015 2014
 
Number  
(‘000)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(£)
Number  
(‘000)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(£)
Outstanding at 1 January 3,165 0.25 3,010 0.23
Granted 2,853 0.0008 2,439 0.23
Expired – n/a – n/a
Forfeited (486) 0.0003 (420) 1.05
Exercised – n/a (1,864) 0.0008
Outstanding at 31 December 5,532 0.15 3,165 0.25
Exercisable at 31 December 708 0.0008 631 0.0008
 
The exercise prices of the share options outstanding at the end of the period were £nil, £0.0008 and £2.42 (2014: £nil, £0.0008 and £2.42). The 
weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the end of the period was 8.2 years (2014: 8.7 years). 
There were no options exercised during the year. 
In the prior year 1.9m shares were exercised. These were issued at a weighted average price of £0.0008 each and the related weighted 
average share price at the time of exercise was £2.23 per share. 
Valuation models
The fair value of PSP share options granted during the period was determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model and Black Scholes model 
dependent on the performance vesting conditions. 
Black Scholes
There were no options granted during the year that were valued solely using the Black Scholes model. The following weighted average 
assumptions were used in the Black Scholes model in calculating the fair values of the options granted during the prior year: 
  2014 
Share price £3.19
Exercise price £0.23
Expected volatility 50%
Expected life 10 years
Expected dividends 0%
Risk free interest rate 3%
 
Monte Carlo Simulation
The following weighted average assumptions were used in the Monte Carlo Simulation model in calculating the fair values of the options granted 
during the year: 
 2015 2014 
Exercise price £0.0008 £nil
Expected volatility 32% 31%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Expected dividends 0% 0%
Risk free interest rate 1% 1%
 
The Monte Carlo Simulation model has been used to value the portion of the awards which have a market performance vesting condition 
(Total Shareholder Return (TSR)). The model incorporates a discount factor reflecting this performance condition into the fair value of this 
portion of the award.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model at the grant date was 
£2.04 per option (2014: £2.19).
For the options valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation, expected volatility is measured by calculating the standard deviation of the natural 
logarithm of share price movements of comparable companies. This is a standard approach to calculating volatility. The risk free rate of return is 
the rate of interest obtainable from government securities as at the date of grant (i.e. Gilts in the UK) over the expected term (i.e. three years).
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 111 Notes to the financial statements continued
Restricted shares
The Company previously made awards of Ordinary shares to employees and Non-Executive Directors by entering into a form of restricted share 
agreement with each participant, under which the participant subscribed for or purchased Ordinary shares in the Company at 10p per ordinary 
share (converted into 0.08p shares post capital reorganisation). These shares are subject to certain restrictions on transfer and forfeiture, as set 
out in the restricted share agreement. The restrictions lift on the earlier of a sale of the Company and the expiry of a vesting period of between 
two and three years (depending on the date of award of the restricted shares).
There were 0.6m Ordinary shares of 0.08p (2014: 1.8m Ordinary shares of 0.08p) in issue at 31 December 2015.
Deferred shares
During the year the Group awarded 110,845 (2014: Nil) deferred shares to Executive Directors as part of a deferred bonus for 2014. The shares 
are held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust until the third anniversary of the grant date when they will transfer to the Executive Directors so 
long as they are still an officer or employee of the Group.
Income statement
See note 5 for the total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the above equity settled instruments granted to Directors  
and employees. 
25. Share premium
Group and Company
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
At 1 January 297.9 103.4
Conversion of loan notes into Ordinary shares – 2.0
Issue of new shares 274.9 201.9
Expenses relating to share issue (8.8) (9.4)
At 31 December 564.0 297.9
 
26. (Accumulated losses)/retained earnings
Group Company 
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January (108.6) (73.5) 1.2 0.7
(Loss)/profit for the year (49.9) (35.1) (3.2) 0.5
At 31 December (158.5) (108.6) (2.0) 1.2
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 112 27. Other reserves
Group
Share option 
reserve 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Treasury 
shares reserve 
£m
Transactions 
with non-
controlling 
interests
 (a) 
£m
Total other 
reserves 
£m
At 1 January 2014 0.1 – – – 0.1
Employee share option scheme 1.2 – – – 1.2
At 31 December 2014 1.3 – – – 1.3
Employee share option scheme 2.7 – – – 2.7
Currency translation differences – 3.1 – – 3.1
Purchase of own shares (note 32) – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – (4.0) (4.0)
At 31 December 2015 4.0 3.1 (0.3) (4.0) 2.8
 
(a)
  On 1 July and 4 July 2015, the group acquired an additional 4.6% and 0.7% respectively of the issued shares of Aerocrine AB for  
SEK94.3 million (£7 .2 million). Immediately prior to the purchase, the carrying amount of the existing 7 .4% non-controlling interests in  
Aerocrine AB was £4.5 million. The group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of £3.2 million and a decrease in equity 
attributable to owners of the parent of £4.0 million. The effect on the equity attributable to the owners of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc  
during the year is summarised as follows:
 
2015 
£m
Carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired 3.2
Consideration paid to non-controlling interests (7.2)
Excess of consideration paid recognised in the transactions  
with non-controlling interests reserve within equity (4.0)
 
There were no non-controlling interests in 2014.
Company
Share option reserve 
£m
Total other reserves 
£m
At 1 January 2014 0.1 0.1
Employee share option scheme 1.2 1.2
At 31 December 2014 1.3 1.3
Employee share option scheme 2.4 2.4
At 31 December 2015 3.7 3.7
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 113 Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Cash used in operations
Reconciliation of (loss)/profit before tax to net cash used in operations
Group Company
 
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Continuing operations 
(Loss)/profit before tax (62.8) (44.0) (3.2) 0.5
Adjustment for: 
Interest income (1.7) (1.7) (1.6) (1.7)
Depreciation 0.5 – – –
Amortisation 2.4 – – –
Share of joint venture (profit)/loss (0.1) 0.1 – –
Fair value gain on forward contract (1.1) – – –
Share based payment charge 2.7 1.2 – –
Foreign exchange on non-operating cash flows (1.1) (0.5) 0.1 (0.7)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 1.5 0.1 (0.3) (26.9)
Increase in inventories (0.4) – – –
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (4.8) 3.8 (0.8) 0.1
Net cash used in operations (64.9) (41.0) (5.8) (28.7)
 
29. Contingent liabilities 
There were no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
30. Operating lease commitments
The total of future minimum lease payments payable under the entity’s non-cancellable operating lease for each of the following periods is as 
follows:
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Due within one year 1.0 0.3
Due between one and five years 0.8 0.3
 
The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases expiring within one to five years.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 114 31. Capital commitments
The Group had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
32. Related party transactions
Group
There is no ultimate controlling party of the Group as ownership is split between the Company’s shareholders. The most significant shareholders 
as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Invesco Asset Management (35.13% of total voting rights); Woodford Investment Management (15.98% of 
total voting rights); Oppenheimer Funds Inc (10.67% of total voting rights); Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP (9.30% of total voting rights); Aviva 
Investors (6.57% of total voting rights).
Transactions with related parties during the year and balances with related parties at 31 December are as follows:
Related party 
2015 
Purchases 
£’000
2014 
Purchases 
£’000
2015  
Payables 
£’000
2014  
Payables 
£’000
Adiga Life Sciences (Joint venture) 1,370 4,920 7 –
Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP
 1
42 38 – –
Iterum Pharmaceuticals LLC
 2
89 – – –
 
1 
 ‘Purchases’ includes compensation paid or payable in respect of services provided by Russ Cummings as Non-Executive Director of the Company.
2 
 Iterum Pharmaceuticals LLC is considered a related party by virtue of Paul Edick, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, being the Chairman of the Board.
Disclosure of compensation provided to Directors is given in the Annual Report on Remuneration and in note 5 for key management. Included 
within key management personnel is Chief Commercial Officer Linda Szyper. Linda is the spouse of Paul Edick, a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company. The compensation paid or payable to Linda is shown below: 
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Linda Szyper:  
Short-term employee benefits (including bonus) 0.5 0.1
Share based payment 0.1 –
Total 0.6 0.1
 
Company
The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the year:
Related party
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Rendering of services to Circassia Limited
 1
1.3 1.6
Settlement of liabilities on behalf of the subsidiaries (139.2) (3.0)
Net transfer of funds to subsidiaries 201.4 28.7
 63.5 27.3
 
1
  Remuneration costs (excluding share options charges) relating to Steven Harris and Julien Cotta in respect of services rendered to Circassia Limited.
 
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Balances due from subsidiary companies 184.5 121.0
 
The amount due is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed date of repayment.
Employee benefit trust
During the prior year the Company set up an Employee benefit trust for the purposes of buying and selling shares on the employees’ behalf.  
A total of £291,081 of funding was paid into the Trust by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £5,100). 
A total of 110,845 shares (0.08p nominal value each) were purchased by the Trust during the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: nil).  
As at 31 December 2015 a cash balance of £5,080 (2014: £5,100) was held by the Trust.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 115 Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Business combinations
During the year, Prosonix Limited and Aerocrine AB were acquired by the Group. The acquisitions were made in order to accelerate Circassia’s 
strategy to become a self-sustaining specialty biopharmaceutical company and to provide the capability and resources to commercialise an 
enlarged late-stage pipeline of potential new allergy and asthma products, once approved. 
Prosonix Limited
On 15 June 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Prosonix Limited, a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the 
development of a portfolio of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease product candidates. The total consideration was £100.0 million. 
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill of £4.4 million is attributable to the existing Prosonix Limited workforce (which cannot be separately valued under  
accounting standards).
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Prosonix Limited, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Consideration £m
Cash 70.0
Contingent consideration 30.0
Total consideration 100.0
 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed £m
Cash and cash equivalents 5.3
Property, plant and equipment 0.8
Intangible assets (Technology) 19.0
Intangible assets (IPR&D) 88.7
Intangible assets (Other) 0.2
Trade and other receivables 2.1
Trade and other payables (4.3)
Net deferred tax liabilities (16.2)
Total identifiable net assets 95.6
Goodwill 4.4
Total consideration 100.0
 
The contingent consideration arrangement requires the Group to pay the former owners of Prosonix Limited £30.0 million upon the Company 
receiving a product marketing authorisation in respect of Prosonix Limited’s lead product in the United Kingdom on or before 31 December 2016 
or £15.0 million on or before 31 December 2017. 
UK marketing approval was received during the year and the contingent consideration of £30.0 million was paid on 6 January 2016. The fair value 
of the contingent consideration is therefore considered to be equal to its book value and is no longer contingent.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is £2.1 million and includes trade receivables with a fair value of £0.1 million. The gross contractual 
amount for trade receivables due is £0.1 million. 
The revenue included in the consolidated income statement from 16 June 2015 to 31 December 2015 contributed by Prosonix Limited was  
£0.5 million. Prosonix Limited contributed a loss before tax of £6.6 million for the same period.
Had Prosonix Limited been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement for the year would show pro-forma revenue in 
respect of Prosonix Limited of £1.8 million and pro-forma operating loss of £3.8 million.
Measurement period adjustments
The fair value of the trade and other receivables at the acquisition date has been increased by £0.4 million to reflect an increase in the R&D tax 
credit receivable. A deferred tax asset of £5.3 million has been recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. The above adjustments have resulted in a corresponding decrease in goodwill. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 116 Aerocrine AB
On 18 June 2015, the Group acquired 92.6% of the share capital of Aerocrine AB, and by 7 July 2015, the Group acquired a further 5.3% of the 
share capital, bringing its investment in Aerocrine AB to 97 .9%. The company offers market-leading products, which are sold to the Group’s core 
customers of allergy / asthma specialists by an established commercial infrastructure in the US and Germany (Europe’s largest allergy market), 
and by a network of partners in additional territories. The products, NIOX MINO
®
 and NIOX VERO
®
, are used to improve asthma diagnosis and 
management by measuring fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), and NIOX
® 
is the only device available across major markets. 
The products are an ideal strategic fit with the Group’s commercialisation approach, with sales forces targeting specialists in key markets, 
partners undertaking promotion in other countries and the potential for primary care sales through partnering.
With a strong commercial infrastructure already established, with reimbursement, market access, supply chain and marketing expertise in  
place, there is an opportunity to scale up this presence in the near-term as well as expanding into further EU territories. The Group plans to 
increase the existing field forces, complete training on the Group’s allergy products, map out key accounts and build customer relationships well 
in advance of the launch of the Group’s cat allergy product. As a result, the Group aims to accelerate uptake of its cat allergy product and achieve 
higher peak sales, which research suggests have the potential to reach over $500 million per annum. In addition, this commercial investment 
is expected to drive greater NIOX
®
 sales, which are targeting a market opportunity of approximately $190 million in the US allergy / asthma 
specialist segment alone.
The consideration paid was 1.7 billion SEK, equivalent to £129.6 million. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill at acquisition of £72.8 million arises from future customer relationships and sales force synergies.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Aerocrine AB, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Consideration £m
Cash 129.6
Total consideration 129.6
 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed £m
Cash and cash equivalents 32.4
Property, plant and equipment 0.5
Intangible assets (Customer relationships) 29.9
Intangible assets (Technology) 27.0
Intangible assets (IPR&D) 0.2
Intangible assets (Other) 1.0
Inventories 2.3
Trade and other receivables 4.2
Trade and other payables (8.0)
Other financial investments 0.2
Borrowings (28.4)
Total identifiable net assets 61.3
Non-controlling interests (4.5)
Goodwill 72.8
Total consideration 129.6
 
The non-controlling interests have been recognised as a proportion of net assets acquired.
The revenue included in the consolidated income statement from 19 June 2015 to 31 December 2015 contributed by Aerocrine AB was  
£10.3 million. Aerocrine AB also contributed an operating loss of £7 .7 million over the same period.
Had Aerocrine AB been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement for the year would show pro-forma revenue in 
respect of Aerocrine AB of £18.8 million and pro-forma operating loss of £26.6 million.
Measurement period adjustments
The fair value of the consideration at the acquisition date has increased by £0.9 million in respect of vested share options with a change of control 
clause. The deferred tax rate has decreased from 35% (US tax rate) to 22% (Swedish tax rate) resulting in a deferred tax liability of £12.5 million 
compared to £19.9 million at acquisition. A deferred tax asset of £12.5 million has been recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. The above adjustments have resulted in a decrease of  
£17.5 million in goodwill and an increase of £1.4 million in non-controlling interests. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 117 Efficacy
The ability of an intervention or drug to produce a desired effect
Environmental exposure chamber (EEC)
Controlled indoor environment into which controlled amounts of 
substance can be released
Epitope
The part of an antigen that is recognised by the immune system, 
specifically by antibodies, B-cells, or T-cells
Fill finish
Filling and closure of the primary drug container and conduct of  
post-filling processes, e.g. sealing and inspection, resulting in a 
product that is suitable for commercial or investigational use following 
appropriate labelling and packaging
House dust mite (HDM)
A small translucent organism belonging to the arachnid class commonly 
found in mattresses or pillows of beds, sofas and carpets
Immune cells
Cells relating to the immune system
Immunoglobulin
Antibody
Immunoglobulin E (IgE)
A class of antibody specifically involved in triggering the early phase of 
allergic reactions
Inflammatory mediators
Soluble, diffusible molecules that act locally at the site of tissue damage 
and infection, and at more distant sites
Japanese cedar
An evergreen tree also known as Cryptomeria, a monotypic genus of 
conifer in the cypress family Cupressaceae
Lyophilisation
A dehydration process typically used to preserve a perishable material 
or make the material more convenient for transport
Mast cells
A resident cell of several types of tissues and contains many granules 
rich in histamine and heparin. It binds IgE and degranulates on 
exposure to allergen to trigger allergic reactions
Peptides
Molecules that are comprised of a series of amino acids
Perennial Rye
Lolium perenne, a grass from the family Poaceae native to Europe, Asia 
and northern Africa and used worldwide in agriculture
Active pharmaceutical ingredient (API)
An active ingredient to the product candidate
Allergen
A substance causing an allergic reaction or allergy
Allergic rhinitis/allergic rhinoconjunctivitis
An allergic inflammation of the eyes, nasopharynx and nasal airways
Allergist
A physician specialising in the diagnosis and treatment of allergies
Allergy
An inappropriate immune response by the body to an allergen i.e. 
a substance (for example a particular food, pollen, animal or plant 
protein) to which the body has become hypersensitive
Alternaria
A genus of ascomycete fungi, otherwise known as a type of mould
Antibody
A large protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system 
to identify and neutralise foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses
Antigen
The part of the allergen to which antibodies bind
Asthma
A common chronic inflammatory disease of the airways characterised 
by variable and recurring symptoms, reversible airflow obstruction and 
bronchospasm (which is a sudden constriction of the muscles in the 
walls of the bronchioles – part of the lungs)
B-cells
Part of a group of white blood cells (lymphocytes) which forms part 
of the immune system. The principal functions of B-cells are to make 
antibodies against antigens
Bermuda grass
Bermuda grass (cynodon dactylon), a grass native to north and east 
Africa, Asia, Australia and southern Europe
Birch
A broad-leaved deciduous hardwood tree of the genus Betula
Cat dander
A material shed from the body of a cat comprised of skin cells
Double-blind
Neither the participants nor the researchers know which participants 
receive the placebo or the study drug
Eczema
A form of chronic inflammation of the skin
Glossary
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 118 Rhinoconjunctivitis
Irritation and inflammation of the mucous membrane inside the nose 
and eyes
Safety profile
The known information about how safe a medicine is
Seasonal allergy
An allergy where symptoms are only experienced at certain times of 
the year
Short ragweed
Ambrosia artemisiifolia, a type of flowering plant common in  
North America
Synthetic peptide immuno-regulatory epitopes (SPIREs)
Short amino acid sequences that contain the T-cell epitope, and 
intended to elicit a T-reg response to an allergen identified using the 
Company’s ToleroMune
®
 technology
T-cell epitope
Epitope that is recognised by a T-cell
TH2 response
The defensive response of the immune system response to an allergen, 
triggered by TH2 cells
T-Helper cells class 2 (TH2 cells)
A sub-group of lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell)
Total rhinoconjunctivitis symptom score (TRSS)
Scoring system used to track the severity of symptoms of 
rhinoconjunctivitis
T-regulatory cells (T-regs)
A component of the immune system that suppresses immune 
responses of other cells in the immune system
T-regulatory response
Reaction of T-regs which is to control immune responses
Whole allergen immunotherapy
A process of administering allergenic extracts to allergic subjects to 
decrease the degree of hypersensitivity and symptoms by reducing 
immunologic responses to allergens
Phase II
In a phase II study, a new product candidate is studied in trials in a 
relatively homogenous population of subjects who have the relevant 
allergy. These studies are undertaken to identify possible adverse 
effects and safety risks, and to explore the preliminary or potential 
efficacy of the product candidate, as well as dosage tolerance and  
the optimal effective dose
Phase IIb
Phase II studies are sometimes further divided into two phases: phase 
IIa trials are designed to assess dosage (how much product candidate 
subjects should be given); and phase IIb trials are specifically designed 
to study efficacy (how well the product candidate works at a prescribed 
dose). Often phase II trials are designed as randomised clinical studies, 
where some subjects receive the product candidate and others receive 
a placebo/standard treatment. Randomised phase II trials typically have 
fewer subjects than randomised phase III trials
Phase III
When phase II trials demonstrate that a specific dosage range of the 
product candidate is likely to be effective and has an acceptable safety 
profile, confirmatory phase III trials are undertaken. These studies are 
intended to provide an adequate basis for establishing the benefit/risk 
ratio for a subsequent application for marketing approval. Therefore, 
a sufficiently high number of subjects must be enrolled and exposed 
to the product candidate for a duration which will provide adequate 
efficacy and safety data for the envisaged clinical use. The studies must 
be controlled, i.e. compare the product candidate to placebo and/
or to active treatment depending on the medical condition and the 
product candidate under investigation. Confirmatory phase III trials on 
specific immunotherapy for the treatment of allergic diseases should be 
performed using a randomised placebo-controlled double-blind design
Placebo
A sham or simulated medical treatment or procedure
Placebo controlled
A way of testing a medical therapy in which, in addition to a group of 
subjects that receives the treatment to be evaluated, a separate control 
group receives a placebo treatment which is specifically designed to 
have no real effect
Pollen
Fine to coarse powder containing the microgametophytes of seed 
plants, which produce the male gametes
Proof-of-concept
Early clinical drug development (typically in phase I and phase II) 
conducted to provide first evidence that a product candidate may  
be an effective treatment of a certain indication
Randomised
The process of allocating subjects to active drug or placebo in a  
clinical study
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 119 Advisors and contact details
Financial calendar
 — Annual General Meeting: 18 May 2016
 — Interim results for the six months  
ending 30 June 2016: Q3 2016
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to 
receive corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, be 
directed to Equiniti. Shareview is Equiniti’s shareholder portal offering 
access to services and information to help manage your shareholdings 
and inform your important investment decisions.
Shareview Portfolio
Shareview Portfolio is an online portfolio management tool which 
enables you to view and manage all the shareholdings you have, where 
Equiniti is the Registrar, in one place. It is free to use and provides 
access to a wide range of market information and investment services. 
Please visit www.shareview.co.uk.
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares. The price of shares 
can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the 
amount that you originally invested.
Addresses for correspondence
Head office
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc 
Northbrook House 
Robert Robinson Avenue 
The Oxford Science Park 
Oxford OX4 4GA 
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1865 405560 
Fax: +44 (0)7092 987560
General enquiries: info@circassia.com 
Investors: IR@circassia.com 
Website: www.circassia.com 
Registered office 
The Magdalen Centre 
Robert Robinson Avenue 
Oxford Science Park 
Oxfordshire 
England 
OX4 4GA
Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
Shareholder support: 0371 384 2030
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday.
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc 
Apex Plaza 
Reading 
RG1 1AX
Advisors 
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 120 Forward-looking statements
This Annual report and accounts contains certain projections and other 
forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, 
results of operations, businesses and prospects of Circassia. The 
use of terms such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, 
“project”, “estimate”, “intend”, “continue”, “target” or “believe” and similar 
expressions (or the negatives thereof) are generally intended to identify 
forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current 
expectations and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events and depend upon circumstances that may or may not occur in 
the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results 
or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by 
these forward-looking statements. Any of the assumptions underlying 
these forward-looking statements could prove inaccurate or incorrect  
and therefore any results contemplated in the forward-looking 
statements may not actually be achieved. Nothing contained in this 
Annual report and accounts should be construed as a profit forecast or 
profit estimate. Investors or other recipients are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained herein. 
Circassia undertakes no obligation to update or revise (publicly or 
otherwise) any forward-looking statement, whether as  
a result of new information, future events or other circumstances.
Designed and produced by thinkerdoer. 
thinkerdoer.co.uk
Printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint
®
 environmental  
print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently 
audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing 
process. Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company and is certified 
to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to 
EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
www.pureprint.com Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc 
Northbrook House 
Robert Robinson Avenue 
The Oxford Science Park 
Oxford OX4 4GA 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)1865 405560
www.circassia.co.uk
