 The best place to  
watch a movie
 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 We are a 
business 
with a 
simple 
strategy
STRATEGIC REPORT
1 Highlights 2015
2 At a Glance 
4 Highlights of the Year
6 Chairman’s Statement 
8  Chief Executive Officer’s 
Statement
10 Market Overview
12 Business Model 
14 Strategy and KPIs
20 Resources and Relationships 
22  Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
29 Financial review
33  C or p or a t e S o c i a l 
Responsibility
GOVERNANCE
36 Directors’ Biographies
39  Co r p o r a t e G o v e r na nc e 
Statement
39 Chairman’s Introduction
40 Compliance Statement
42 Leadership
44 Effectiveness
45  N om i n a t i on C om m i t t e e 
Report
47 Accountability
49 Audit Committee Report
54  D i r e c t ors’ R e m u n e r a t i on 
Report
55  Annual Report on 
Remuneration
67 Remuneration Policy
75 Directors’ Report
80  Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
81 Independent Auditor’s Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84  C o ns o l i da t e d S t a t e m e n t  
of Profit or Loss
85  Consolidated Statement of  
Other Comprehensive Income
86  C o ns o l i da t e d S t a t e m e n t  
of Financial Position
87  C o ns o l i da t e d S t a t e m e n t  
of Changes in Equity
88  C o ns o l i da t e d S t a t e m e n t  
of Cash Flows
89  Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
129  Company Balance Sheet
130  Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity
131  Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
136 Shareholder Information
For more information visit:
www.cineworldplc.com/investors
Our Vision…
To be the best place to watch a movie
Our Strategy is to…
1
  Deliver a great cinema experience for 
all cinemagoers, every time
2
  Continue to expand our estate and look 
for profitable opportunities to grow
3
  Ensure that we enhance our existing 
estate so we deliver a consistent level 
of quality across the Group
4
  Be leaders in the industry by offering 
customers the latest audio and 
visual technology
5
  Drive value for shareholders 
by delivering our growth plans 
in an efficient and effective way STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 1
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
GROUP REVENUE (£m)
+13.9%
2015 705.8
619.4 2014
 
 
ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(4)
(£m)
+37.1%
2015 102.8
75.0 2014
 
 
EBITDA
(3)
 (£m)
+22.7%
2015 155.3
126.6 2014
 
 
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (£m)
+48.1%
2015 99.7
67.3 2014
 
 
ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS
(5)
 (p)
+28.7%
2015 31.4
24.4 2014
 
 
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
(5)
 (p)
+29.6%
2015 17.5
13.5 2014
1 The 2014 statutory results for Cineworld 
Group plc “the Group” include the results of 
Cineworld Cinemas and Picturehouse for the 
53 week period ended 1 January 2015 and 
the results of Cinema City for the 44 week 
period ended 1 January 2015.
2 Pro forma results refer to the Group’s 
performance had Cinema City been consolidated 
for the entirety of the period and has been 
calculated by reference to the acquired 
management accounts of Cinema City. For the 
purposes of percentage movements, the impact 
of the 53rd week has been eliminated (week 
ending 1 January 2014, the first week of the prior 
period) and movements in performance have 
been calculated on a constant currency basis.
3 EBITDA is defined as reported in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
as Operating profit before depreciation and 
amortisation, onerous leases and other non-
recurring charges, impairments and reversals 
of impairments, transaction and reorganisation 
costs, profit on disposals of assets.
4 Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by 
adding back amortisation of intangible assets 
(excluding acquired movie distribution rights), 
and certain non-recurring, non-cash items and 
foreign exchange as set out in Note 5. Adjusted 
profit after tax is arrived at by applying an 
effective tax rate to adjusted profit before tax.
5 The 2014 adjusted diluted earnings per 
share and dividend per share have been adjusted 
for the first 48 days of the period to take into 
account the rights issue of 8 for 25 shares on 
14 February 2014.
6 CEE is defined as Central and Eastern 
Europe and includes Poland, Hungary, Romania, 
Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovakia.
Highlights 2015
(1)
Other Key Highlights
u u Group revenue growth of 13.9% on 
a statutory basis and 12.4% on a pro 
forma
(2)
 basis;
 • UK & Ireland revenue growth of 12.7% 
on a 52 week v 52 week basis; and
 • CEE
(6)
 & Israel revenue growth of 
11.7% on a pro forma basis.
u u EBITDA growth of 22.7% on a statutory 
basis and 18.5% on a pro forma basis;
u u Adjusted profit before tax increased 
by 37.1% to tax of £102.8m after 
non-recurring costs and amortisation 
of £3.1m.
u u Profit after tax increased by 49.2% 
to £81.3m; 
u u EPS growth of 38.9% to 30.7p;
u u Adjusted diluted EPS
(5)
 growth of 28.7% 
to 31.4p;
u u Full year dividend increased by 29.6% 
to 17.5p; 
u u Net cash generated from operating 
activities increased by 92.7% to 
£165.9m; and 
u u Net debt reduced from £281.9m to 
£245.2m, reducing the EBITDA to net 
debt ratio at the year end to 1.6 times.
Operational Highlights
u u Record number of 18 sites opened 
during the period, taking the Group 
to 2,011 screens; 
u u A record 93.6m admissions, an increase 
of 12.9%; 
u u Top ranked UK cinema chain in 
highly-regarded annual survey by the 
Institute of Customer Service; and
u u Integration of the two Groups 
successfully completed and the 
synergies achieved have significantly 
exceeded original expectations. STRATEGIC REPORT
2
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The Group operates in nine different territories. We have 218 cinema 
sites with 2,011 screens. We are the second largest cinema business 
in Europe and the number one or two (by number of screens ) 
in each territory of operation.
Cineworld is one of the UK’s leading cinema chains by Box 
Office revenues. The cinemas are modern, well designed 
multiplexes with stadium and allocated seating, situated 
mostly in leisure and retail parks. Cineworld provides a 
high level of customer service to a large volume and wide 
demographic of customers and shows a very broad range 
of films; it is also offers the highly successful ‘Unlimited’ card 
which allows customers access to unlimited films for a monthly 
subscription. During the period Cineworld continued the 
renovation of some of its older cinemas, completing the 
renovation of Milton Keynes which included the first 4DX 
screen to be launched in the UK and Sheffield which includes 
our first VIP offering in the UK in addition to the opening 
of eight new cinema sites.
Cinema City operates in six Central and Eastern European 
territories and is either the number one or two, measured 
by screens, in each of the markets in which it operates. The 
cinemas are all modern, well designed multiplexes with four or 
more screens, have market leading technologies such as IMAX, 
4DX and VIP and cater for a high volume of customers. The 
cinemas tend to have larger foyers than those in the UK, giving 
an impressive and welcoming feel and its proud local teams 
provide a great experience to their customers. All cinemas have 
allocated seating as standard and offer a wide range of popular 
films, many of which are local to the territory in which the 
cinemas are situated. Romania has been the focus market for 
expansion and development with five new cinema sites opened 
in 2015 and a further five scheduled for opening in 2016. 
Picturehouse provides a unique, local and intimate film viewing 
experience having created cinemas of both high quality and of 
architectural merit. Picturehouse operates in 13 towns and 
cities, with eight located in London ‘villages’, and continues to 
focus on cinemagoers aged 25 and over, students and those in 
the more affluent demographics. These audiences are reached 
by showing a mix of quality blockbusters, alternative content 
and specialised films. With generally five screens or fewer, 
Picturehouse Cinemas create a cosy atmosphere, offering 
freshly-cooked food, bars and other special events, making 
the experience a bit different to the big multiplexes. During the 
period, our flagship site, Picturehouse Central was opened in 
the heart of London’s West End, close to Leicester Square with 
a unique offering including a restaurant and members bar. 
Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the two brands the Group 
operates within Israel. Yes Planet is the market leader, offering 
IMAX, 4DX and VIP screens to its customers. The styles and 
designs of the cinemas are a mixture of modern, multiplexes 
and local community cinemas, some of which were the first 
cinemas to be built in Israel. All cinemas have stadium seating, 
big screens and the latest digital technology. The cinemas 
show a range of popular films in comfortable surroundings to 
a large number of customers. During 2015 a state-of-the art 
16 screen cinema was opened in Jerusalem with IMAX, 4DX, 
and VIP screens.
Our brands
UK and Ireland
Central & Eastern Europe and Israel
At a Glance
898 SCREENS / 90 SITES
937 SCREENS / 97 SITES
70 SCREENS / 22 SITES
106 SCREENS / 9 SITES 8
4
3
7
6
1
5
2
STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 3
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Theatre Operations
COUNTRY NO. OF CINEMAS SCREENS
1 UK & Ireland 112 968
2 Poland 33 354
3 Romania 22 198
4 Hungary 20 176
5 Czech Republic 13 115
6 Israel 9 106
7 Bulgaria 6 65
8 Slovakia 3 29
Total 218 2,011
UK, Ireland, Central Eastern Europe and Israel
In 2015, there were over 93 million customer admissions across 
all our cinemas. We are currently scheduled to open 465 screens 
over the next four years, 290 in CEE & Israel and 175 in the UK. STRATEGIC REPORT
4
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Highlights of the Year
The opening of Yes Planet, 
Jerusalem 
16 screen Multiplex
44 new screens 
open in Cinema City, Romania
Cineworld’s first 
Superscreen in 
the UK 
opens in Milton Keynes
 The UK’s first  
 4DX screen
 opens in Cineworld, Milton Keynes STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 5
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
VIP screen  
experience
opens in Cineworld, Sheffield
The fantastic 
refurbishment 
of Picturehouse Central, London
Over 2,000 screens: 
milestone reached across the Group STRATEGIC REPORT
6
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Anthony Bloom
Chairman (right)
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer (left)
Chairman’s Statement
The outlook for 2016 is 
encouraging as there is a solid 
film release programme and 
we are currently on track to 
open a further 13 cinemas 
during the year. Accordingly, 
I look forward to the future 
with optimism and confidence. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 7
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2015 was another successful and 
exciting year for the Cineworld Group and its shareholders. 
Revenues continued to grow as more than 93 million customers 
came through our doors and enjoyed the movies we showed. 
The film slate was strong with a number of blockbusters 
exceeding expectations – “ Jurassic World”, “Spectre” and 
“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” being the most significant. 
The increase in EBITDA was the result of that positive trend 
in admissions, two months additional results from the Cinema 
City acquisition, as well as better operating efficiencies and the 
effect of our new cinemas, limited in the latter case as most of 
them only opened towards the end of the period.
The Group’s EBITDA for the period increased by 22.7% to 
£155.3m (2014: £126.6m), on revenue which improved by 
13.9% to £705.8m (2014: £619.4m). Statutory profit before 
tax increased by 48.1% to £99.7m (2014: £67.3m). 
The Group’s balance sheet is strong. Net debt reduced 
to £245.2m, thus reducing the EBITDA to net debt ratio 
at the year end to 1.6 times, compared to 2.1 times in the 
prior year. This strength along with the excellent operating 
performance of the Group has enabled the Board to declare 
a full year dividend of 17.5p per share, which represents 29.6% 
growth. I am particularly proud of the fact that the Group 
has increased the dividend every year since the Company 
was listed in 2007, in varying economic conditions which 
in some years were extremely challenging.
During 2015 we focused on both expanding and renovating 
our estate. There were a record number of 18 site openings 
in the UK and Ireland and CEE and Israel. We operate 2,011 
screens, in 218 cinemas, across nine different territories as at 
the end of 2015. This translates into approximately 10,000 
shows a day in 9 different territories, a managerial task 
of considerable magnitude which our management team 
handled with great skill. We are currently scheduled to open 
a further 465 screens over the next four years – 290 of 
which are in CEE and Israel and 175 of which are in the UK. 
This expansion will be financed from internal resources and 
provide excellent growth potential into the future.
The Group’s performance in 2015 was gratifying in a number 
of important areas, particularly in the field of enhanced 
customer service. Driven by our focus on ensuring that we 
make good on our publicly expressed promise to be “The Best 
Place To Watch A Movie”, we were pleased that our efforts 
in this regard were validated by the fact that we were the 
top ranked UK cinema chain in the highly regarded Annual 
Survey conducted by the Institute of Customer Service. In 
addition, our CEO Mooky Greidinger will be awarded the 
prestigious “Global Achievement Award” by the National 
Association of Cinema Owners in Las Vegas in April this 
year, a mark of the respect in which our Company is held 
internationally. Going forward we will continue to make 
excellent customer experience a top priority, as it has always 
been between Cineworld and Cinema City. The integration 
process of the two companies was completed during the year 
and I am pleased to report that the synergies achieved have 
significantly exceeded our original expectations.
Board
Following nine years of committed service, David Maloney 
and Peter Williams ceased to be considered independent as 
Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, and stepped down from the Board at the 
AGM on 26 May 2015. I would like to personally thank David 
and Peter for their dedication to Cineworld since its listing, and 
during a period which has seen the Company become one the 
UK’s most successful cinema chains, expand internationally 
and enter the FTSE 250. They made a significant contribution 
and we wish both of them well for the future. 
At the AGM, Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were 
elected to join the Board as independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Julie Southern was appointed as the Chair of the 
Audit Committee, to replace David Maloney. Julie has an 
extensive background both in finance and consumer facing 
businesses and is well qualified to assume this role. Alicja 
has extensive experience in most of the Eastern European 
territories in which the Group operates and brings a valuable 
skill set to the Board. Both Julie and Alicja have already 
made significant contributions to the Board discussions and 
coincidentally have the added advantage of addressing the 
gender imbalance which previously existed on the Board.
On 26 May 2015 Rick Senat was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director, a position previously held by David 
Maloney, and Martina King was appointed as the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, succeeding Peter Williams. Fiona 
Smith, who joined the Company as In House Counsel in 2011, 
was appointed as Company Secretary and General Counsel, 
with effect from 30 June 2015. I would like to welcome Fiona 
Smith to the role of Company Secretary, and thank outgoing 
Company Secretary and General Counsel Richard Ray, who 
has helped guide Cineworld for seven years since its early 
years as a listed Company.
On 9 June 2015 Philip Bowcock stepped down as Chief 
Financial Officer. Deputy CEO Israel Greidinger, formerly 
CFO of Cinema City International before its combination 
with Cineworld in February 2014, assumed the responsibility 
of CFO on an interim basis. I would like to thank Philip for 
his important contribution as CFO of Cineworld and on 
the Group’s Board.
It goes without saying that we will continue to attain the 
highest corporate governance standards. This is a matter 
that the Board takes extremely seriously. We continue to take 
note of issues that concern the environment, gender and other 
diversity and health and safety matters, and we periodically 
review and where appropriate improve our practices in 
those areas.
On behalf of myself and the Board I would like to 
express my sincere appreciation to the Group’s management 
and all its employees for their hard work, competence 
and professionalism and their achievements during 2015. 
We have an excellent and highly motivated management 
team, a modern estate with state of the art equipment and 
bold plans for the future, all of which will continue to provide 
shareholder value.
Outlook 
The outlook for 2016 is encouraging as there is a solid film 
release programme and we are currently on track to open 
a further 13 cinemas during the year. Accordingly, I look 
forward to the future with optimism and confidence. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
10 March 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT
8
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
As a Group, we are committed 
to ensuring our customers have 
the best possible experience 
when visiting our cinemas.
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer
Our Strategy
As a Group, we are committed to ensuring our customers 
have the best possible experience when visiting our cinemas. 
The Cineworld Group continues to be “The Best Place to 
Watch a Movie”. 
Our strategy is to: 
• Deliver a great cinema experience for all cinemagoers, 
every time – to achieve this we invest in our existing 
estate, as well as identify new sites for expansion. The full 
experience of our cinemas starts with the best planning, the 
best technology, the best marketing and the best service;
• Expand our estate and look for profitable opportunities to 
grow – we have the financial capability to expand through 
the cash generative nature of our business and our debt 
facility, and have opened a record number of new sites 
during 2015; 
• With the integration of Cineworld and Cinema City 
successfully completed, we are committed to enhancing 
our existing estate and new sites, ensuring we deliver a 
consistent high quality offering across the Group; 
• Be leaders in the industry by offering customers the 
latest audio and visual technology – technical innovation 
has also allowed the Group to enhance the customer 
experience through premium formats such as IMAX, 3D, 
4DX, Superscreen and VIP. This gives our customers the 
opportunity at our larger sites, not only to choose which 
movie to see but also how to see it; and 
•  Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth plans 
in an efficient and effective way. 
Overall we have made significant progress in delivering 
our strategy during 2015, with the key developments 
summarised below. 
Customer Experience
We provide the films our customers want to see in the most 
appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology, 
with the right retail offerings and great customer service. 
Our cinemas now have up to six different offerings of how to 
watch movies; regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen 
and VIP theatres. 
During 2015, with the VIP experience in Israel, Poland, Romania 
and Hungary having proved a success, our first VIP experience 
was launched in the UK in Sheffield in December. Our VIP 
experience provides a premium offering to our customers 
from the moment they walk through the door, including access 
to a private lounge ahead of their movie screening where, as 
part of the ticket price they can enjoy unlimited buffet food 
and soft drinks before watching the movie in our dedicated 
auditoriums with luxurious reclining seats. The VIP experience 
will be rolled out to further cinemas across the Group where 
there is opportunity in the market. 
The Group has increased the number of Starbucks coffee 
outlets in the UK, taking the total number to 17 at 31 December 
2015 with further outlets planned for 2016. 
The Cineworld Unlimited programme provides our customers 
with a range of benefits, while at the same time being one of 
the pillars that underpins our strategy for growing revenues 
and admissions. With regular subscription income it reduces 
the level of fluctuations in our revenues for the Group. It also 
brings operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, 
often at off-peak times. We commenced the expansion of 
our Unlimited programme, with its launch in Poland at the 
end of 2015. 
Cinema Expansion 
During 2015 we opened a record number of 18 cinemas, 
10 in the UK and 8 in CEE & Israel and we have a further 
45 development sites contractually scheduled to open in the 
next four years, 13 which are scheduled for opening in 2016 
and nine of which are already under construction. As half of 
the new sites were opened in the second half of 2015 the full 
benefit to the Group will not be realised until 2016. 
The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon local 
market conditions. Mature markets such as the UK and Israel 
tend to be characterised by higher admissions per capita, 
higher average ticket prices and a much lower population 
per screen ratio. In the more mature markets, the rate of new 
cinema openings has been slower in recent years, partly due 
to the limited number and associated lead time of new retail 
and leisure developments. Despite this the Group successfully 
opened 11 sites in the more mature markets during 2015. 
Growth markets have the opposite characteristics including 
lower admissions per capita and lower average ticket prices 
but do provide greater investment potential for the Group. 
There is clear potential upside as the habit of going to the 
cinema becomes more established and ticket prices increase 
with the standard of living. There are a great number of 
development opportunities, such as in Romania where we 
have invested significantly during 2015 and will continue 
to do so in 2016.  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 9
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Enhancement of the Existing Estate
The estate in the UK is generally older than that of Cinema City 
in the CEE and Yes Planet in Israel. A number of key sites were 
identified for refurbishment to ensure our high standards are 
consistently maintained across our estate. This programme 
commenced during the second half of 2014, with the 
redevelopment of our Milton Keynes cinema, and continued 
throughout 2015. Milton Keynes was successfully re-launched 
in January 2015 and included the UK’s first 4DX screen, the 
new additional sensory cinema concept which had proved 
popular with customers in our other territories. The Milton 
Keynes site became a blue-print for future developments 
in the UK, with a Superscreen, the first 4DX experience 
and a Starbucks.
During the period we also completed the refurbishment of 
the Shaftesbury Avenue site and this was re-launched as 
Picturehouse Central, our flagship Picturehouse cinema in 
the West End. Other refurbishments completed during 2015 
included Sheffield (UK), Letnany (Czech Republic), Slovansky 
Dum (Czech Republic) and Yes Planet Haifa (Israel). The 
refurbishment programme will continue across the Group 
during 2016. 
Digital Film and Technological Innovation
During 2015 we opened seven 4DX screens, three in the UK, 
Milton Keynes, Crawley and Sheffield and four in the CEE & 
Israel – Yes Planet Haifa (Israel), Yes Planet Jerusalem (Israel), 
Bucharest Mega Mall (Romania) and Constanta City Park 
(Romania). We now have a total of 14 4DX screens across the 
Group. We are delighted to have provided this new technology 
to cinemagoers and look forward to continuing the expansion 
of the service with a pipeline of a further 10 4DX screens 
scheduled to open in 2016. 
In addition to the introduction of 4DX, we have expanded 
the IMAX format across a selection of our sites which remains 
popular, especially for films such as “Star Wars: The Force 
Awakens”, “Spectre” and “Jurassic World”. We opened three 
IMAX screens during the year in Broughton and Solihull – 
Birmingham NEC (UK) and at Yes Planet Jerusalem (Israel). 
By the end of 2015, the Group was operating 28 IMAX screens 
in total, with a further two scheduled to open in 2016 in Israel 
and Romania, and more in the pipeline. 
When the Group moved to digital projection, an agreement 
was entered into with the main Hollywood studios (via an 
agent in the UK) to recoup our investment in digital projection 
equipment by the Virtual Print Fee Mechanism (“VPF”). The 
small amount of remaining VPF income from the UK contract 
is expected to be earned during 2016 and therefore there will 
be no VPF income in the UK from the 2017 onwards.
From May 2015 we started to roll out the updates to our 
Cineworld UK website by location and will continue this during 
2016. As the trend of booking online continues, in 2016 we will 
develop our mobile app to provide our customers with greater 
visibility of our offerings and allow bookings to be made more 
quickly and easily on the move. During the year we have also 
centralised our customer call centres in Poland and enhanced 
our customer relationship management database to provide 
a consistent service across the Group.
Value for Shareholders
Through our focus on driving revenues, increasing profits 
and prudently managing our cash position we have been 
able to continue rewarding our shareholders with growth 
in both the dividend and adjusted diluted earnings per 
share, 29.6% and 28.7% respectively. 
Future
We devote a considerable amount of time to assessing new 
site opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions 
is a key part of our future growth strategy. 
I am happy to say that when we look forward, we can do so 
with optimism. We have great cinemas being run by a great 
team. Hollywood looks more committed than ever to quality 
productions, which include many sequels as well as many 
original movies. Our upcoming UK cinemas will continue 
to be in the “new generation” style, with a large number 
of screens and a wide range of features to enable us to give 
our customers a great experience. This is accompanied by 
a great line-up of new cinemas in our other territories. 
Overall, the film slate for 2016 looks solid, and includes a 
strong family film slate. Notable releases include “Fantastic 
Beasts And Where To Find Them”, “The BFG”, “Star 
Wars: Rogue One”, “Captain America: Civil War”, “X-Men: 
Apocalypse”, “Batman v Superman” “Finding Dory”, “The 
Secret Life of Pets”, “Ice Age 5”, “Angry Birds”, “Warcraft” 
and “Alice Through The Looking Glass”. 
Last but for sure not least, I would like to thank the whole 
Cineworld team across all nine territories for their great work 
in 2015 and wish them all many more successful years to 
come. Teamwork is the secret of our success and the key 
to our future. 
Mooky Greidinger 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT
10
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Market Overview
The Group operates in nine territories and, 
measured by number of screens, is either  
the number one or two operator in each.
Characteristics of the Cinema Market
The Group operates in nine territories and, as measured by 
number of screens, is either the number one or two operator 
in each. The nine territories are a blend of mature and growth 
markets which provides the Group with both organic and 
acquisition growth opportunities. 
Mature markets such as the UK and Israel tend to be 
characterised by higher admissions per capita, higher average 
ticket prices and a much lower population per screen ratio. 
Growth markets have the opposite characteristics and provide 
great investment potential for the Group. Romania is an 
example of such a growth market where we have invested 
significantly during 2015 and will continue to do so in 2016. 
Property Market and Development 
The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon 
local market conditions. Planning laws, the economic 
environment, and the ability of developers to finance their 
projects are factors which impact where we chose to locate 
our cinemas. These characteristics differ by territory. In 
more mature markets (such as the UK and Israel), the rate 
of new cinema openings has been slower in recent years, 
partly due to the limited number and associated lead time 
of new retail and leisure developments. We have seen the 
converse in developing markets (such as Romania) where 
the number of development opportunities tends to be 
greater. The Group opened a record number of new sites 
during 2015, with 11 being in the more mature markets. 
Structure of the Market and Competitive Landscape
There are four significant cinema chains in Europe with over 
1,000 screens. The rest of the market is represented by smaller 
multiplex operators, which may only operate in one or two 
territories, and independent operators which are specific 
to local markets.
European Cinema Industry
(1)
RANK COMPANY
NO. OF 
SCREENS
1. Odeon 2,243
2. Cineworld Group 1,864
3. Vue 1,723
4. Pathé 1,021
5. Nordic Cinema Group 635
6. UGC 469
7. CGR 440
8. Cinepolis 428
9. Event Hospitality & Entertainment 421
10. Kinepolis 371
(1) Source: Dodana 2014 
External Factors
The cinema industry is dependent upon the customer choosing 
to spend disposable income on watching a movie. Customer 
support has been assisted by developments in technology such 
as digitalisation of cinemas, which have enabled a greater range 
of films to be offered, as well as streaming of live events such as 
opera and ballet. Superior experiences offered by technologies 
such as IMAX and 4DX are also ensuring that watching a 
movie in the cinema continues to be a unique experience 
which cannot be replicated at home or on a portable electronic 
device. Value for money also remains an important factor and 
cinema has tended to be a less expensive form of entertainment 
in the wider leisure markets in which the Group competes. 
Market Performance
The industry is dependent on the quality of films and 
therefore the appeal of such films to the cinema-going public. 
Box office revenue is driven by admissions and average ticket 
price. Admissions depend on the number, timing and popularity 
of films. The average ticket price is driven by film mix, the 
demographics of admissions and local economic factors such 
as local levels of disposable income and competition.  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 11
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2015 was a strong year for the cinema industry, with the 
main blockbusters of the year being “Spectre”, with global 
revenues of $877.8m, “Jurassic World”, with revenues of 
$1,670.4m globally and “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” which 
managed to gross revenues of $1,985.3m globally in the last 
two weeks of the calendar year and continued to generate 
revenue into 2016. These Hollywood titles were popular across 
all of the territories in which the Group operates. However, in 
certain territories, especially Poland and the Czech Republic, 
local films continue to be popular and account for a greater 
percentage of annual admissions. In particular, during the year 
the Polish box office was supported by a local blockbuster 
called Listy Do Movie 2 which generated gross revenues 
in Poland of $13.8m.
COUNTRY TOP 3 FILMS ORIGIN
UK & Ireland 1. Spectre US/UK
2. Star Wars: The Force Awakens US
3. Jurassic World US
Poland 1. Listy Do Movie 2 Poland
2. Star Wars: The Force Awakens US
3. Spectre US/UK
Hungary 1. Star Wars: The Force Awakens US
2. Minions Movie US
3. Jurassic World US
Romania 1. Fast and Furious 7 US
2. Star Wars: The Force Awakens US
3. Minions Movie US
Israel 1. Fast and Furious 7 US
2. Inside Out US
3. Minions Movie US
Czech 
Republic
1. Minions Movie US
2. Star Wars: The Force Awakens US
3. Spectre US/UK
Slovakia 1. Minions Movie US
2. Fifty Shades of Grey US
3. Spectre US/UK
Bulgaria 1. Fast and Furious 7 US
2. Star Wars: The Force Awakens US
3. Minions Movie US
Other Income
Retail and screen advertising revenues are the 
significant additional sources of income for cinema chains. 
Popcorn and soft drinks remain the most popular retail items. 
There is, however, a growing demand for cinema’s to offer a 
wider range of products, including healthier or reformulated 
variants of the traditional offerings. There is also an increase 
in supplementary products including branded coffee outlets, 
such as Starbucks in the UK. 
Screen advertising revenue varies depending on the type of 
films screened, the number of minutes and value of advertising 
sold, the number of attendees who view the film and the 
placement of advertisements in relation to the start of the film. 
The strength of the film slate in 2015 had a positive impact 
on the screen advertising revenues for the period. 
Distribution income is also generated in certain territories in 
the CEE & Israel where Cinema City acts as the local country 
distributor for the main Hollywood studios or by directly 
acquiring the rights to specific title. Where rights are directly 
acquired the Group earns royalties not only from cinema 
exhibition but also from Video on Demand, DVDs and TV 
screenings. Cinema City acted as the distributor for certain 
territories within the Group for three of the main titles in 
the year, “Spectre”, Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2 and 
“Star Wars: The Force Awakens”. 
Future Market Trends
Although streaming and downloading of films at home has 
become increasingly popular, the cinema continues to offer 
a unique experience which cannot be replicated at home and 
is often associated with an inexpensive social outing. Cinema 
auditoriums are also increasingly being used for purposes 
other than just exhibiting movies such as the streaming of 
live events for example opera and ballet and for corporate 
event space. 
The cinema industry continues to believe that the interests of 
the film industry and the customer are generally best served 
by the existence of the cinematic window, the period between 
the release of a film in a cinema theatre and on any other 
platform. There is no expectation that the current cinema 
window will significantly change in the near future.  STRATEGIC REPORT
12
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Business Model
Cineworld is an international cinema  
chain operating in nine territories.
Our primary customers are the cinema-going public who rely 
on us to provide the best entertainment experience in this 
field. In our cinemas we want to give our customers, not just 
the choice of cinema, but also the choice of how to watch 
movies. In many cinemas we have up to six different offerings 
of how to watch movies; regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, 
Superscreen and VIP theatres. 
We provide the films our customers want to see in the most 
appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology, 
with the right retail offerings and great customer service. Our 
ticket price represents the various offerings of how to watch 
a movie. Our major source of revenue is driven by admissions, 
and our ability to maximise this income is dependent on 
the quality of the film slate and on the experience we can 
offer. Our admissions also have a direct effect on our screen 
advertising revenues, and on our retail sales, primarily of 
food and drink. 
Brand 
We see our brands as a guarantee to the quality of the 
cinema experience and service our customers can always 
expect. We have focused brands in each territory in which 
we operate. Interaction with our teams on the day is critical, 
but we have extended the experience by developing our 
cinema subscription schemes, such as our “Unlimited” 
programme in the UK (which was also recently launched 
in Poland), online discounts, and other tailored offers to 
encourage frequent visits. Our brands are also important 
to our commercial partners, helping in our relationships 
with the film distributors, retail suppliers and advertisers. 
Film
Delivering a high quality film slate is one of the key external 
drivers of our business. Whilst we do not have control over 
what is in the marketplace, our close and long-standing 
relationships with the film distributors are fundamental 
to providing the best and most varied selection for our 
customers at the right time. The Group’s box office revenue 
is driven by admissions which in turn drive the two other 
main revenues for the Group, which are retail revenue (the 
sale of food and drink for consumption within our cinemas) 
and screen advertising income (revenue from advertisements 
shown on our screens prior to feature presentations). The 
Forum Film brand is Cinema City’s film distribution business. 
Forum Film operates across the CEE & Israel region and 
distributes films on behalf of the major Hollywood studios 
as well as owning the distribution rights to certain 
independent movies. 
Technology
Investment in technology is central to the viewing experience 
we offer, but also allows us to be much more flexible in the 
use of our auditoriums and with our pricing policy. By having a 
digital enabled estate, we can maximise revenue by scheduling 
film show times to reflect the commercial performance of 
each offering in real time. Once again, our brand, scale and 
experience are attractive to our commercial partners in 
this area.
Property
Nearly all of our properties are leased so that we can 
deploy capital into enhancing the customer experience and 
growing the business. Our venues are located to suit our target 
audiences’ preferences. As such, we can offer an important 
proposition for property developers, leading to mutually 
beneficial leasing agreements.
Our People
Our people underpin the whole of our business model. They 
are the external face of our business, and are all responsible for 
ensuring that our customers enjoy the best possible experience 
during their visit to our cinemas. Promoting internal succession 
is a key focus across the Group.
Value
Value is generated through our focus on continually aiming 
to enhance revenue, profit generation and prudent cash 
management. We share the value we generate by reinvesting in 
the business and expanding our offer to customers, rewarding 
our employees and paying dividends to our shareholders.  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 13
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Shareholder Returns 
Drives repeat visits
Resources and Relationships
Revenue
Value
Our Customers
u Our People
u Box Office
u Customer Experience
u Earnings Per Share 
u Brands
u Key Commercial Relationships
u Retail
u Motivated Team
u Dividends
u Property
u Customers
u Advertising u Distribution
u Financial Returns
u Technology
Reinvest STRATEGIC REPORT
14
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategy and Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
What we are focused on
 1 Delivering a great 
cinema experience for all 
cinemagoers, every time.
2 Continuing to expand 
our estate and look for 
profitable opportunities 
to grow.
3 Ensuring that we 
enhance our existing 
estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality 
across the Group.
 4 Being leaders in the 
industry by offering our 
customers the latest audio 
and visual technology.
5 Driving shareholder value 
by delivering our growth 
plans in an efficient and 
effective way.
What we achieved in 2015
We delivered admission growth in all of 
our nine territories on a pro-forma basis.
We continued to expand and develop 
our retail offerings to provide our 
customers with the widest possible 
choice to suit their tastes. We now 
have a total of 17 Starbucks franchises 
in the UK and 6 sites with VIP offerings.
We invested significantly in the training 
and development of our people to 
ensure they deliver a great experience 
to our customers. This was reflected 
in being the top ranked cinema chain 
in the highly regarded UK Annual 
Survey conducted by the Institute 
of Customer Service.
In the UK & Ireland, during the year, 
we opened 10 new cinema sites:
u u Chesterfield – 11 screens
u u Glasgow Silverburn – 14 screens 
u u Whiteley – 9 screens
u u Hinckley – 5 screens 
u u Solihull (NEC) – 11 screens 
u u Newport Friars Walk – 8 screens
u u Stoke-on-Trent – 9 screens
u u Swindon Regent Circus – 6 screens
u u Crouch End – 5 screens
u u East Dulwich – 3 screens
In CEE & Israel, during the year, 
we opened 8 new cinema sites:
u u Lublin Felcity (Poland) – 9 screens
u u Starogard (Poland) – 6 screens
u u Jerusalem (Israel) – 16 screens
u u Consanta City Park (Romania) – 
10 screens
u u Deva (Romania) – 6 screens
u u Severin (Romania) – 6 screens
u u Suceava (Romania) – 8 screens
u u Bucharest (Romania) – 14 screens
At the end of the year we had a pipeline 
of 45 new cinemas (465 screens) 
signed which are contracted to come 
on-stream over the next four years.
When we selected new sites for 
development we considered location, 
accessibility, competition and other 
local economic factors. Wherever 
possible we aim for a four to five year 
payback period for our leasehold sites.
During the year we completed the 
refurbishment of three sites in the UK, 
Milton Keynes, Sheffield and Shaftsbury 
Avenue, two in Czech Republic, Letnany 
and Slovansky Dum and one in Israel, 
Yes Planet Haifa. 
In January 2015 the Milton Keynes 
site became the blue-print for future 
developments in the UK, with a 
Superscreen, the first UK 4DX 
experience and a Starbucks. 
The refurbished Shaftsbury Avenue 
site was re-launched as Picturehouse 
Central, our flagship Picturehouse 
cinema which includes an exclusive 
members bar. 
During the period we have commenced 
a further three refurbishments in the UK 
– Crawley, Glasgow Renfrew Street and 
Swindon Shaw Ridge, one in Slovakia – 
Aupark Bratislava and one in Hungary 
– Compona – Budapest.
We have continued to expand the 4DX 
offering across the Group with the first 
4DX screen which opened in the UK in 
Milton Keynes in January 2015. During 
the year we have opened seven 4DX 
screens bringing the total for the Group 
to 14 as at the end of 2015. 
We continued to deepen our 
partnership with IMAX by opening three 
new IMAX screens bringing the total for 
the Group to 28 as at the end of 2015.
We have successfully completed the 
integration of Cineworld and Cinema City 
and exceeded the expected synergies 
from the integration. 
We delivered solid growth in underlying 
profitability, with an increase in EBITDA, 
adjusted EPS and dividends. 
Key performance indicators
(1)
Admissions
(2) 
93.6m
 6.5%
2014: 87.9m
(2)
Retail spend  
per person
(2)
£1.74 
 6.7% 
2014: £1.63
(2)
New sites
18 
2014: 4
Total no. of screens 
2,011
2014: 1,874
Average payback period
Average payback period of leasehold 
sites opening in the last five years: 
5 years (2014: 4 years).
Refurbishment expenditure
£27.4m
Refurbishment expenditure on 
existing estate during the year 
£27.4m (2014: £18.7m).
Capital expenditure on technology
£8.2m
Capital expenditure on technology on 
the existing estate during the year of 
£8.2m (2014: £7.5m).
EBITDA
(2)
£155.3m
 18.5%
2014: £131.0m
Dividend per share
17.5p 
 29.6%
2014: 13.5p
Average ticket 
price
(2)
£4.82 
 4.8%
2014: £4.60
(2)
Adjusted diluted EPS
(3)
 
31.4p
2014: 24.4p STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 15
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
 15
STRATEGIC REPORT
What we are focused on
 1 Delivering a great 
cinema experience for all 
cinemagoers, every time.
2 Continuing to expand 
our estate and look for 
profitable opportunities 
to grow.
3 Ensuring that we 
enhance our existing 
estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality 
across the Group.
 4 Being leaders in the 
industry by offering our 
customers the latest audio 
and visual technology.
5 Driving shareholder value 
by delivering our growth 
plans in an efficient and 
effective way.
What we achieved in 2015
We delivered admission growth in all of 
our nine territories on a pro-forma basis.
We continued to expand and develop 
our retail offerings to provide our 
customers with the widest possible 
choice to suit their tastes. We now 
have a total of 17 Starbucks franchises 
in the UK and 6 sites with VIP offerings.
We invested significantly in the training 
and development of our people to 
ensure they deliver a great experience 
to our customers. This was reflected 
in being the top ranked cinema chain 
in the highly regarded UK Annual 
Survey conducted by the Institute 
of Customer Service.
In the UK & Ireland, during the year, 
we opened 10 new cinema sites:
u u Chesterfield – 11 screens
u u Glasgow Silverburn – 14 screens 
u u Whiteley – 9 screens
u u Hinckley – 5 screens 
u u Solihull (NEC) – 11 screens 
u u Newport Friars Walk – 8 screens
u u Stoke-on-Trent – 9 screens
u u Swindon Regent Circus – 6 screens
u u Crouch End – 5 screens
u u East Dulwich – 3 screens
In CEE & Israel, during the year, 
we opened 8 new cinema sites:
u u Lublin Felcity (Poland) – 9 screens
u u Starogard (Poland) – 6 screens
u u Jerusalem (Israel) – 16 screens
u u Consanta City Park (Romania) – 
10 screens
u u Deva (Romania) – 6 screens
u u Severin (Romania) – 6 screens
u u Suceava (Romania) – 8 screens
u u Bucharest (Romania) – 14 screens
At the end of the year we had a pipeline 
of 45 new cinemas (465 screens) 
signed which are contracted to come 
on-stream over the next four years.
When we selected new sites for 
development we considered location, 
accessibility, competition and other 
local economic factors. Wherever 
possible we aim for a four to five year 
payback period for our leasehold sites.
During the year we completed the 
refurbishment of three sites in the UK, 
Milton Keynes, Sheffield and Shaftsbury 
Avenue, two in Czech Republic, Letnany 
and Slovansky Dum and one in Israel, 
Yes Planet Haifa. 
In January 2015 the Milton Keynes 
site became the blue-print for future 
developments in the UK, with a 
Superscreen, the first UK 4DX 
experience and a Starbucks. 
The refurbished Shaftsbury Avenue 
site was re-launched as Picturehouse 
Central, our flagship Picturehouse 
cinema which includes an exclusive 
members bar. 
During the period we have commenced 
a further three refurbishments in the UK 
– Crawley, Glasgow Renfrew Street and 
Swindon Shaw Ridge, one in Slovakia – 
Aupark Bratislava and one in Hungary 
– Compona – Budapest.
We have continued to expand the 4DX 
offering across the Group with the first 
4DX screen which opened in the UK in 
Milton Keynes in January 2015. During 
the year we have opened seven 4DX 
screens bringing the total for the Group 
to 14 as at the end of 2015. 
We continued to deepen our 
partnership with IMAX by opening three 
new IMAX screens bringing the total for 
the Group to 28 as at the end of 2015.
We have successfully completed the 
integration of Cineworld and Cinema City 
and exceeded the expected synergies 
from the integration. 
We delivered solid growth in underlying 
profitability, with an increase in EBITDA, 
adjusted EPS and dividends. 
Key performance indicators
(1)
Admissions
(2) 
93.6m
 6.5%
2014: 87.9m
(2)
Retail spend  
per person
(2)
£1.74 
 6.7% 
2014: £1.63
(2)
New sites
18 
2014: 4
Total no. of screens 
2,011
2014: 1,874
Average payback period
Average payback period of leasehold 
sites opening in the last five years: 
5 years (2014: 4 years).
Refurbishment expenditure
£27.4m
Refurbishment expenditure on 
existing estate during the year 
£27.4m (2014: £18.7m).
Capital expenditure on technology
£8.2m
Capital expenditure on technology on 
the existing estate during the year of 
£8.2m (2014: £7.5m).
EBITDA
(2)
£155.3m
 18.5%
2014: £131.0m
Dividend per share
17.5p 
 29.6%
2014: 13.5p
Average ticket 
price
(2)
£4.82 
 4.8%
2014: £4.60
(2)
Adjusted diluted EPS
(3)
 
31.4p
2014: 24.4p
(1) 2014 key indicators for the 
Group include the results 
of Cineworld Cinemas 
and Picturehouse for the 
53 week period ended 
1 January 2015 and the 
results of Cinema City for 
the 44 week period ended 
1 January 2015.
(2) Figures are based on 
pro-forma results refer to 
the Group’s performance 
had Cinema City been 
consolidated for the 
entirety of 2014 and 
have been calculated by 
reference to the acquired 
management accounts 
of Cinema City. For the 
purposes of percentage 
movements, the impact of 
the 53rd week has been 
eliminated and movements 
in performance have been 
calculated on a constant 
currency basis. 
(3) The 2014 adjusted diluted 
earnings per share have 
been adjusted for the first 
48 days of the period to 
take into account of the 
rights issue of 8 for 25 
shares on 14 February 2014.
Cineworld FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure FTSE 250
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
300
0
600
900
Dec 2008 Dec 2015
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN STRATEGIC REPORT
16
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Feel more at Cineworld…
The best way to  
watch a movie
T ransforming our customers’ 
experiences through the investment in 
new innovative cinema technologies.
4DX 
A thrilling multi-sensory 4D experience 
makes customers feel like they are in 
the movie
14
LOCATIONS SCREENS
1 UK 3
2 Poland 3
3 Israel 3
4 Romania 2
5 Hungary 1
6 Czech 1
7 Bulgaria 1
IMAX 
The ultimate in ‘big screen’ experience, 
IMAX is the most immersive 
cinematic experience
28
LOCATIONS SCREENS
1 UK 17
2 Poland 5
3 Israel 2
4 Romania 1
5 Bulgaria 1
6 Czech 1
7 Hungary 1
VIP
A premium cinema experience delivered 
through a private lounge, light buffet meal 
and fully-reclined seats, for just one price. 
6
LOCATIONS SCREENS
1 Israel 2
2 Poland 1
3 UK 1
4 Hungary 1
5 Romania 1 STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 17
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Bringing technology to life:  
Cineworld Sheffield
SHEFFIELD CINEWORLD
Valley Centertainment  
Broughton Lane 
Sheffield S9 2EP
4DX
A new 140 seated 4DX screen has been 
installed giving customers a hugely 
exhilarating multi-sensory ‘4D’ experience 
whilst watching a movie.
IMAX with Laser
The existing 542 seated IMAX screen 
has been upgraded to IMAX with laser; 
crystal-clear laser projection delivers the 
best possible picture on the massive 12.9m 
high x 23.9m wide screen. Along with the 
highest quality laser-aligned sound and 
with new seats, this is a truly amazing big 
screen experience.
VIP
Two new 40-seated VIP screens have been 
built with fully-reclining seats providing the 
ultimate premium cinema experience. Guests 
in VIP enjoy a light buffet meal in a private 
lounge in advance of the film all for one fixed 
price. The private lounge is fully licensed and 
makes for a special evening at the movies.
Starbucks
Cineworld Sheffield was the first cinema 
within the Cineworld estate to have a 
dedicated Starbucks within its cinema, 
conveniently located at the entrance and 
accessible to customers out of hours.
Bar and Foyer
Customers are wowed on entering the fully 
digital foyer with huge LED screens that allow 
the trailers to come alive; the bar on the first 
floor has also been refurbished and can seat 
over 75 guests.
Cineworld Sheffield is the biggest cinema in the 
Cineworld estate with 20 screens. The cinema was 
refurbished in 2015 to become the epitome of the 
vision of ‘the best way to watch a movie’, thrilling 
customers from the moment they enter the foyer. 
It is an excellent example of how Cineworld’s 
investment in innovation and great customer 
experience has come together to make people 
‘feel more’ in a Cineworld Cinema. STRATEGIC REPORT
18
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
4
2
1
3
Growing our Portfolio
Investing in a 
bigger audience
We’ve increased the size of our 
business to over 2,000 screens across 
the group with investment in both new 
cinemas and refurbishments. 
156
NEW SCREENS IN 2015
LOCATIONS NEW
1 UK 81
2 Romania 44
3 Israel 16
4 Poland 15  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 19
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2015 was the biggest year in Cineworld’s 
history for new builds and refurbishments, 
with eighteen new cinemas opened in four 
markets, meaning an increase in 156 screens 
across the Cineworld Group. New cinemas 
were built in the UK (Wales, Scotland and 
England), Israel, Poland and Romania, 
improving accessibility for people to watch 
the best films on the biggest screens. 
UK
In the UK, ten new cinemas were opened 
and Cineworld refurbished two of its biggest 
cinemas in Milton Keynes and Sheffield, 
introducing 4DX and VIP to the UK for the 
first time and a new Superscreen large screen 
format to wow audiences. A new five screen 
Cineworld cinema in Hinckley, opened in 
December 2015 meant the Cineworld Group 
had over 2000 screens for the first time. 
Israel
In Israel, Yes Planet opened an amazing new 
16-screen cinema at the Sherover complex 
in Jerusalem with a 4DX and IMAX. 
Romania
Cinema City opened five new cinemas across 
Romania, the biggest of which was in the 
mega mall in Bucharest, with 14 screens 
and a 4DX.
Poland
Two new cinemas, Lublin Felcity and 
Starogard Gdański, with 9 screens (including 
a 4DX screen) and 6 screens respectively, 
were opened in July 2015. STRATEGIC REPORT
20
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Resources and Relationships
Our business model and strategy 
are underpinned by key resources 
and relationships.
Customers 
Our customers are fundamental to our success. By delivering 
our vision: to be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”, we focus 
on ensuring that our customers have a positive experience 
and increase the likelihood of repeat visits. We aim to deliver 
a broad range of films, in high-quality venues with retail 
offerings to suit our customers’ tastes, all of which contribute 
to achieving our vision.
We also have initiatives which aim to extend the relationship 
with the customer beyond a single visit. In the UK, and 
from the end of 2015 in Poland, we have the “Unlimited” 
subscription service which is a fixed monthly (or annual) 
subscription enabling customers to watch as many 2D films 
as they wish. We also have a number of other membership 
schemes across the UK and other territories which offer 
discounts and allow us to interact with our customer base 
more frequently. We have recently entered the top 50 UK 
Customer Satisfaction Index, climbing 65 places from the 
prior year which is a great achievement. 
Event cinema screenings have enabled us to bring a wider 
range of content to customers throughout our estate, enabling 
our audiences to see live shows taking place around the world. 
Operating in this way supports such productions making them 
more commercially viable, allows more people to see them 
and, in turn, brings more people to the cinema and frequently 
a different type of customer.
As many of our customers still associate going to the cinema 
as a treat or special occasion, they choose to eat traditional 
cinema snacks as part of their experience. We work with our 
partners to offer a wider variety of products including healthy 
options. In line with our philosophy of offering wider snacking 
options we have now opened 17 Starbucks outlets across the 
UK estate, which have been very well received. 
In our Picturehouse circuit, the food and drink proposition is 
more akin to that found in restaurants and closely tailored to 
the audience profile to which it caters. A wide range of snacks 
and meals are available, many of which include ingredients 
sourced from local producers and suppliers. In addition, the 
range of its retail products is extensive and offers low sugar 
and sugar free options. We continue to ensure that we provide 
good nutrition and allergen advice to enable our customers 
to make informed choices.
Our People
Our people are key to ensuring the ongoing success of the 
business and employee engagement continues to be central 
to our People Strategy and a success story for the Group. 
Following further investment in pay and benefits, especially 
for our front of house teams, as well as continued focus on our 
management teams, we have seen participation in our annual 
survey and engagement levels reach an all-time high in the UK 
in 2015. Our experience in this area has started to be applied 
across other territories, and we will continue to do so as 
appropriate, over the coming year. 
In line with our business growth strategy across the Group, 
internal succession has been a key focus for all our territories. 
Internal succession in the UK has improved since the 
introduction of the Talent Development Review process and 
this has resulted in the promotion of over 60 managers in 
2015 with an even more robust pipeline in place for 2016.
In support of internal succession, we have further developed 
and initiated a number of Learning and Development 
programmes, some of which we are already starting to apply 
across the Group. This included continued investment in our 
on-line learning and management platform and during the 
second half of 2015, 100% of our cinema team members, have 
completed or started on-line development session to support 
their personal and professional development. During 2015 we 
also saw the graduation of 17 managers from the Cineworld 
Academy Development Programme (diplomas at levels 5 & 
7 accredited by the Institute of Leadership and Management 
“ILM”). We also launched Cineworld’s Talent Programme, ‘Be 
More’, which saw an intake of 25 junior managers who have 
been identified with high potential. We have also evolved our 
Apprenticeship Programme and now have 23 young people 
completing their Apprenticeship enabling them to become 
Supervisors of the future. This programme continues to 
provide an opportunity for young people to learn straight 
from school and offers an exciting career path into the 
cinema industry.
Employees throughout the Group participate in the success 
of the Group in different ways. Depending on location, our 
people can also benefit from the success of the Company 
by participating in its SAYE Share Option Scheme; flexible 
benefits and quarterly bonus schemes. Additionally, a number 
of people participate in annual bonus schemes – we are 
proud that for the 21st consecutive year bonuses were again 
paid to all qualifying people working in its UK business. Many 
of the bonus schemes are underpinned by a performance  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 21
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
management framework, which reflects not only personal 
performance but also Group performance, and helps ensure 
that people are recognised and rewarded for their individual 
contribution to the business and on the overall Group results.
In recent years, there have been a number of increases to 
minimum and living wages, both in the UK and in our overseas 
territories and throughout this period our aim has been to 
pay “a fair wage”. For this reason, our pay rates aim to be 
above statutory minimums and this will continue to be the 
Group’s policy. 
Diversity and Human Rights
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and seeks 
to recruit, retain and promote staff on the basis of their 
qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude. A wide range 
of applicants are encouraged to apply for all roles. 
In employment-related decisions, the business complies 
with all relevant legislation including that specifically 
targeted at preventing discrimination and such principles 
are embedded through the business by requisite policies.
Cineworld also seeks to treat all of its staff in accordance with 
its Ethics policy so that each person is accorded dignity and 
respect and the guiding principle is followed that we treat 
other people as we ourselves would like to be treated.
Gender Breakdown of Cineworld People
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
SENIOR 
MANAGERS
(1)
TOTAL EMPLOYEES
Male 6 7 4,685
Female 3 4 4,621
(1) Senior managers are those people who report directly to an Executive 
Director.
Key Commercial Relationships 
We work hard at developing good relationships with a range 
of film studios and distributors, both major and independent. 
Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on providing our 
customers with a wide range of films has resulted in many 
opportunities for us to work with film studios on simplifying 
the film buying process and on promoting smaller films to 
a wider audience. We also work closely in association with 
industry bodies, including The Federation Against Copyright 
Theft (FACT), to combat film piracy.
We build relationships with developers, landlords and local 
planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new sites for 
the future. We also work closely with suppliers of technological 
enhancements, for instance IMAX and 4DX, which enables us to 
ensure that we are delivering the best possible experience to our 
customers, as well as looking to maximise box office revenues.
Strong relationships with our principal retail suppliers, such as 
Coca-Cola, Baskin Robbins, Candy King and Starbucks, enable 
us to work together on promotions that help drive retail sales. 
We seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly, and 
to work in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our 
ethical policy. 
Safety 
The ongoing management of the day-to-day health, safety 
and welfare of our customers, employees and contractors is 
of major importance. With over 93 million customer visits a 
year and over 9,000 employees, the Group seeks to maintain 
high standards in the effective management of our health 
and safety obligations, and our duty of care to our customers 
and staff.
Each year every cinema in the Group is subject to health and 
safety assessments and a fire risk audit. Results are compared 
year-on-year and any significant issues are followed up with 
the assistance of specialist external consultants where needed. 
Overall, the results have shown that standards remain high. 
All incidents are logged, investigated and action taken, where 
appropriate, to ensure that the chances of a reoccurrence are 
reduced as far as reasonably possible. STRATEGIC REPORT
22
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Operating as a cinema chain across nine 
different territories presents a number of risks 
and uncertainties that continue to be the focus 
of the Board’s ongoing attention. 
Cineworld’s approach to risk management and internal control 
is designed to manage risk. Therefore, where possible, the 
Group have implemented mitigation strategies to reduce the 
overall risk exposure in line with the Board’s risk appetite.
Risk management has continued to evolve across the Group, 
building on the introduction of a revised Risk Management 
Framework in 2014. The 2015 focus has been on embedding, 
through training and communication, the Cineworld approach 
into the culture and behaviour of how the Group operates to 
ensure risk is considered at all levels.
This has been supported by a programme of on-going 
monitoring and reporting that has been undertaken to ensure 
the risk profile remains up-to-date, reflecting the current risk 
exposure and driving control improvement activity.
The Board has developed risk appetite statements against 
each of the principal risks, clearly setting out the Board’s 
perspective on its willingness to accept risk in pursuit of the 
strategic objectives of the Group. Full details of our risk work 
are set out on page 47.
In addition, the Directors’ viability assessment has taken into 
consideration the potential impacts of the principal risks in the 
business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity 
over the period, including principal mitigating actions such as 
reducing capital expenditure. More details about our viability 
assessment may be found on page 50.
The Board considers it has undertaken a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group during the year, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency and liquidity. The horizon time-frame 
for consideration of the principal risks is aligned to the 3 year 
period used when considering the future viability of the Group 
(please see the Group’s viability statement on page 40). 
Principal Risks Summary
1. Technology and Data No significant change t u
2.  Availability and Performance 
of Film Content
Decrease q
3.  Expansion and Growth  
of Our Cinema Estate
No significant change t u
4.  Viewer Experience 
and Competition
No significant change t u
5.  Revenue from Retail/
Concession Offerings
No significant change t u
6. Cinema operations New for 2015
7. Regulatory Breach No significant change t u
8. Strategy and Performance New for 2015
9.  Retention and Attraction 
of Senior Management 
and Key Employees
No significant change t u
10.  Governance and 
Internal Control
New for 2015
11. Terrorism and Civil Unrest Increase p
The Group’s principal risks are identified below, together with: 
• a description of the risk and its potential impact; 
• examples of the current controls and mitigation; 
• a summary of developments in the year;
• an indication of the direction of travel of the risk 
exposure; and
• an indication of the link to the Group’s strategic objectives 
as set out on pages 14 and 15. STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 23
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 1
 Technology and Data Control
Owner: Deputy CEO
Description and Impact
The Group continues to grow in its reliance on IT systems and data. From online ticket sales to managing financial information 
and everything in between, the Group is reliant on its IT systems remaining operational and secure. Therefore, any critical system 
interruption for a sustained period could have a significant impact on the Group’s performance. In addition, any breach (cyber 
or otherwise) of data protection rules or security measures surrounding the storage of confidential and proprietary information 
(including movie content) could result in unauthorised access, loss or disclosure of this information. This would then lead to 
claims, regulatory penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately reputational damage. 
Example Controls and Mitigation
The Group IT function monitors, manages and optimises our systems, including ensuring their resilience through regular back-ups 
and implementing security measures. Additional external experts are employed where necessary to oversee, and help manage, 
major projects involving the upgrading or replacement of key systems. The Group continually reviews its approach to information 
security, specifically controlling the sensitive data it holds through restricted access. A specific focus is on being fully compliant 
with Payment Card Industry – Data Security Standards.
Risk Trend
No significant change t u
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The increase in global criminal cyber activity and the on-going implementation of a number of new IT systems across the Group 
has meant the Board focus in this area continues to remain high.
Strategic Relevance: 
4,5
2
 Availability and Performance of Film Content
Owner: Senior Vice President – Commercial
Description and Impact
Underpinning the overall success of the Group is the quality of the distributors’ film slates, the timeliness of their release 
and the appeal of such films to our customers. Where the film distributors do not produce the level of expected films, or films 
underperform, this has a direct impact on cinema attendance and, therefore, the principal box office revenue for the Group may 
decline. Economic factors in terms of the availability of capital for financing film productions can also have an impact on the 
supply of films and/or their production.
Example Controls and Mitigation
We work closely with the film distributors to understand as early as possible the upcoming film slate and, therefore, forecast likely 
film performance. Although access to the latest Hollywood film slate is reliant on our partnership with the large film distributors, 
the Cineworld Group strategy is to have access to a wide range of films over and above the traditional Hollywood blockbusters. 
This allows us to reduce our overall exposure to reduced attendance by meeting specific local area demand for type and content 
of films shown. The operating flexibility of having digital projection technology available in all our cinemas continues to be a key 
strategy that has enhanced the capacity utilisation of the Group. Digital film content can be easily moved to and from auditoriums 
in our cinemas to maximise admissions.
Risk Trend
Decrease q
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The film slate in the year was strong with a number of Hollywood blockbusters exceeding expectations. In addition, in certain 
territories, local films continue to be popular and account for a greater percentage of annual admissions (please see Market 
Overview on page 10). The overall film slate for 2016 looks solid (please see the CEO and Chairman statements on page 6 and 8).
Strategic Relevance
1,4  STRATEGIC REPORT
24
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
3
 Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate 
Owner: CEO
Description and Impact
Our estate growth is dependent on our ability to effectively expand operations through the development of new sites or 
acquiring existing cinemas. Planning laws, the economic environment, availability of capital for developers and location choice are 
some of the factors that may impact the Group’s development and growth initiatives. This is particularly heightened if the Group 
continues to expand in emerging markets as the risk of doing business in these regions is higher. 
Example Controls and Mitigation
The Group devotes a considerable amount of time assessing new site opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions, is 
a key part of our future growth strategy. We also focus a significant amount of time and effort on maintaining good relationships 
with potential key partners. This allows us to be aware of the availability of space in new developments and to ensure factors such 
as local planning laws and demographic changes are continually understood and monitored. Board approval is obtained for all 
new sites and significant refurbishments.
Risk Trend
No significant change t u
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The Group continues to grow the cinema estate with a record 18 new cinemas (UK – 10 and CCE&I – 8) opened in the year. 
A further 45 development sites are contractually scheduled to open in the next 4 years, 13 of which are scheduled for 2016, 
with nine already under construction (please see CEO statement on page 8). 
Strategic Relevance
2,3,4,5
4
 Viewer Experience and Competition 
Owner: CEO 
Description and Impact
Although cinema admissions are predominantly driven by the quality and availability of movie product, ensuring that the 
Group continually aims to enhance the viewer experience through the quality of the products and services offered is also key 
to our focus of being the cinema of choice. Any decrease in the quality of the services we offer, from the ease of booking, the 
technology we use, to a friendly farewell on departure, could result in loss of our customers to competitors and/or other leisure/
entertainment attractions. Furthermore, the continuing development of existing and new technology (such as 3D television and 
internet streaming) is also introducing increasing competitive forces as they offer alternative ways to release films.
Example Controls and Mitigation
Our strategy is focused on continually improving the quality of services we offer to customers. This includes enhancing 
our approach to online booking, removing clutter from our foyers, investing in technical innovation and premium offerings 
(4DX and other large screen formats), upgrading our seating options and improving our retail offers. The customer interaction 
with the Group outside of the cinema environment is also important. We have continued to enhance our subscription and 
membership programs to offer added value though offers and information.
Risk Trend
No significant change t u
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The Group continued to invest during the year in enhancing the existing estate, ensuring that the cinemas have the latest 
technology (for example, 4DX and IMAX) and provide an environment that allows the viewer to have the best possible 
experience. The significant investment in training and development during the year has been rewarded as the Group were 
ranked top for customer service in the annual survey carried out by the Institute of Customer Service (please see Chairman’s 
statement on page 6).
Strategic Relevance 
1, 3, 4, 5 STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 25
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5
 Revenue from Retail/Concession Offerings 
Owner: Senior Vice President – Commercial
Description and Impact
Retail/concession sales generally fluctuate in line with admissions, therefore, if admissions were to fall, revenue from retail sales 
could decrease. Retail spend may also decrease due to changes in customer preferences, decreased disposable income or other 
economic and cultural factors. In addition, the price of items such as energy and foodstuffs has a direct impact on costs. The 
ability of the Group to understand and react quickly to the changing customer need is a key part to maintaining and increasing 
this revenue effectively.
Example Controls and Mitigation
A key strategy for the Group is to maintain a strong relationship with our principal retail suppliers as this allows us to work with 
them to enhance our ability to continually run targeted promotions as well as bringing in differing ranges of products to meet 
changing customer demand. The introduction of using franchising models for some of our key suppliers has also been a key 
way of enhancing our range of offerings.
Risk Trend
No significant change t u
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The retail spend per customer has continued to increase with a 6.6% rise in 2015. Key developments in the year (based on our 
response to customer preferences) have been the introduction of Starbucks into a further seventeen sites and also the launch 
of the first UK VIP experience (please see Strategy and KPIs on page 14).
Strategic Relevance
1,5
6
 Cinema operations (NEW FOR 2015) 
Owner: CEO 
Description and Impact
Operating our cinemas well is pivotal to the overall success of the Group. Key to this, is to ensure that management understand 
their local market (film scheduling, pricing and retail offerings), effectively manage their employees, maintain service standards, 
and are able to react to incidents should they occur. A reduction in performance in any area, can have a direct effect on the 
overall viewer experience, reputation of the cinema’s and ultimately the Group’s financial performance.
Example Controls and Mitigation
Cinema management continually monitor their staffing requirements, making adjustments to scheduling based on customer 
demand, forecasts and film scheduling. On a monthly basis detailed operational and financial reviews are undertaken by cinema 
management teams to ensure performance matches expected targets.
Risk Trend
New for 2015
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
Cinema operational and financial performance continues to be improved across the Group driven by a combination of savings 
on some direct cost lines during 2015 and our continual investment in learning and development programmes that increases the 
experience and expertise of our cinema management teams. The re-fresh of the Group’s risk profile as a result of the introduction 
of the new Risk Management Framework resulted in the escalation of this risk to a principal risk.
Strategic Relevance
1,5 STRATEGIC REPORT
26
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
7
 Regulatory Breach 
Owner: Deputy CEO
Description and Impact
The Group’s business and operations are affected by regulations covering such matters as planning, the environment, health 
and safety (cinemas and construction sites), licensing, food and drink retailing, data protection and the minimum wage. Failure to 
ensure ongoing compliance with regulation/legislation could result in fines and/or suspension of the activity or (in very extreme 
circumstances) entire business operation.
Example Controls and Mitigation
Management operate an ongoing cinema compliance programme which is then supplemented by a programme of independent 
assurance reviews and support from external advisers where appropriate on compliance verification. Our Group support 
functions use a combination of ongoing staff development as well as updates from professional advisers to ensure the Group 
is aware of the latest regulations in key areas.
Risk Trend
No significant change t u
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The results of our cinema compliance programmes, health and safety assessments, and wider assurance activity continue 
to indicate no significant increase in risk exposure with standards in all areas remaining high (please see Resources and 
Relationships on page 20).
Strategic Relevance
1,2,3,5
8
 Strategy and Performance (NEW FOR 2015) 
Owner: Deputy CEO
Description and Impact
Even with the relative simplicity of the Cineworld business, delivery of our long-term objectives requires effective setting, 
communicating, monitoring and executing a clear strategy.
Example Controls and Mitigation
A Governance structure is in place that supports effective strategy development as well as on-going reporting and monitoring 
of business performance on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis.
There are various communication strategies (emails, meetings and conferences) used to ensure the strategic goals of the Group 
are clearly understood and executed by Senior Management.
Risk Trend
New for 2015
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The delivery of this year’s annual conference provided the platform to re-confirm the Group’s strategy with senior management, 
and ensure a clear understanding of execution strategies. The re-fresh of the Group’s risk profile as a result of the introduction 
of the new Risk Management Framework resulted in the escalation of this risk to a principal risk.
Strategic Relevance
1,2,3,4,5 STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 27
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9
 Retention and Attraction of Senior Management and Key Employees 
Owner: Deputy CEO
Description and Impact
The Group’s performance and its ability to mitigate significant risks within its control depend on its employees and management 
teams. Therefore, reliance is placed on the Group’s ability to recruit, develop and retain senior management and other key 
employees. If the Group loses key people this is likely to have a direct impact on its ability to deliver business objectives.
Example Controls and Mitigation
The Group uses a variety of techniques to attract, retain and motivate its staff, with particular attention on those in key roles to 
help ensure the long-term success of the Group. These techniques include the regular review of remuneration packages, share 
incentive schemes, training, regular communication with staff and an annual performance review process. As an overall approach 
we focus on internal promotion where possible. Where employees have the right mix of skills and experience there are many 
ways for them to further their career within the Group.
Risk Trend
No significant change t u
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The Group has made further investment in pay and benefits, especially for our front of house teams. There has also been a 
continued focus on internal succession through the further development and initiation of a number of learning and development 
programmes, and the delivery of the talent development review process (please see Resources and Relationship on pages 20 to 21).
Strategic Relevance
1,2,3,4,5
 10
 Governance and Internal Control (NEW FOR 2015) 
Owner: Deputy CEO
Description and Impact
Maintaining corporate governance standards and an effective and efficient risk management and internal control system 
proportionate to the needs of the Group is a key part of our short and long term success. Any systematic failure and/or 
weaknesses in this environment (financial and non-financial) could have a fundamental and direct impact on the efficient 
and effective operations of the Group.
Example Controls and Mitigation
The Group uses various mechanisms to support the implementation and monitor the effectiveness of controls. These include: 
• Implementation of the Group Risk Management Framework;
• Ongoing self assessment process for monitoring cinema compliance and financial control standards;
• Work of internal auditors;
• Regular consultation and advice from external advisers;
• A risk based cinema compliance and financial control audit programme;
• The delivery of targeted risk based internal audit reviews; and
• The use of technology for live forensic monitoring.
Risk Trend
New for 2015
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
Continued evolution of the Group’s risk management programme, and the delivery of supporting assurance programmes, 
is providing on-going improvements to the overall system of internal control (please see Corporate Governance report page 
39). The appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors and therefore changes in the Board and Committee 
composition in the year has meant a new Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee 
Chair (please see Chairman’s statement page 6). The re-fresh of the Group’s risk profile as a result of the introduction of the 
new Risk Management Framework resulted in the escalation of this risk to a principal risk.
Strategic Relevance
1,2,3,4,5 STRATEGIC REPORT
28
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
11
 Terrorism and Civil Unrest 
Owner: CEO
Description and Impact
Cinema businesses could be affected by civil unrest or terrorist acts/threats, resulting in the public avoiding going to the cinemas. 
This could be due to incidents in the locations in which the Group operates, such as Israel or in other areas, that increase general 
unease in the locations in which it operates. The Group may additionally be subject to an increased risk of boycott, targeted 
civil unrest or terrorist action/threat as a result of operating in and being linked to certain countries or types of film. This could 
adversely impact the results of operations and the financial performance of the Group.
Example Controls and Mitigation
We receive communications from relevant government authorities and law enforcement agencies which keep us informed and 
allow us, when needed, to monitor any potential impact external events could have on the security of our cinema estate. Business 
continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to ensure that we can react appropriately should an incident occur at a Group 
site and appropriate insurance is in place to mitigate the financial consequences.
Risk Trend
Increase p
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The increase in acts of terrorism across the globe has increased the likelihood of a potential incident occurring at a cinema.
Strategic relevance
1,5
Removed Risks
The update of the Group’s risk profile as a result of the introduction of the new Risk Management Framework resulted in the 
removal of the following from the set of risks disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts:
• Integration of the Enlarged Cineworld Group – This is no longer applicable given the time period since the acquisition 
and the integration work that has been completed. 
• Film Piracy – This is included within risks 6 (cinema operations) and 7 (regulatory breach) and therefore not specifically 
required as a principal risk in its own right.
• Extreme weather conditions – This is no longer considered a Principal Risk for the Group. Consideration of the impact 
of weather is managed at an operational level on a cinema by cinema basis.  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 29
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Review
Cineworld Group plc results are presented for the 52 week 
period ended 31 December 2015 and reflect the trading and 
financial position of the UK & Ireland and CEE & Israel (the 
“Group”). Cinema City Holding N.V. and its subsidiaries (“CEE 
& Israel”) became part of the Group on 28 February 2014 and 
were consolidated for the final ten months of the prior period.
Unless explicitly referenced, all figures in the commentary 
below are on a pro-forma 52 weeks for 2015 v 2014 and 
calculated by excluding the trade of the week ending 
1 January 2014, the first week of the prior period. Where 
percentage movements are given, they reflect performance 
on a constant currency basis to allow a year-on-year 
assessment of the performance of the business eliminating 
the impact of changes in exchange rates over time. Constant 
currency movements have been calculated by applying the 
2015 average exchange rates to 2014 performance.
The Group’s box office revenue is driven by admissions 
(one of our key performance indicators), which depend on 
the number, timing and popularity of the films we are able to 
show in our cinemas. Admissions in turn drive the two other 
main revenues for the Group, which are retail revenue (the 
sale of food and drink for consumption within our cinemas) 
and screen advertising income (revenue from advertisements 
shown on our screens prior to feature presentations).
Total revenue in the 52 week period ended 31 December 2015 
was £705.8m. On a 52 week v 52 week pro-forma basis, this 
equates to an increase of 12.4%. Overall admissions increased 
by 6.5%, combined with average ticket pricing increasing by 
4.8% to £4.82 the total box office revenues increased by 11.9%. 
Spend per person increased by 6.7% to £1.74 resulting in retail 
revenue growth of 13.6%. Other revenues increased by 12.9%.
UK & Ireland
52 WEEKS TO 
31 DECEMBER 
2015
53 WEEKS TO 
1 JANUARY 
2015
52 WEEK  
V 53 WEEK 
52 WEEK  
V 52 WEEK 
Admissions 50.9m 51.1m -0.4% 2.7%
£M £M
Box office 311.9 288.7 8.0% 11.4%
Retail 107.2 99.2 8.1% 11.3%
Other Income 46.8 37.6 24.5% 26.8%
Total revenue 465.9 425.5 9.5% 12.7%
Performance Overview
52 WEEK PERIOD ENDED  
31 DECEMBER 2015
53 WEEK PERIOD 
ENDED  
1 JANUARY 2015
UK & IRELAND CEE & ISRAEL TOTAL GROUP TOTAL GROUP
Admissions 50.9m 42.7m 93.6m 82.9m
£M £M £M £M
Box office 311.9 139.7 451.6 399.2
Retail 107.2 55.5 162.7 141.9
Other income 46.8 44.7 91.5 78.3
Total revenue 465.9 239.9 705.8 619.4
The results for the UK & Ireland include the two cinema chain 
brands in the UK, Cineworld and Picturehouse. Following 
completion of the Competition Commission investigation 
into the acquisition of Picturehouse, Picturehouse has been 
fully integrated into the wider UK business. As such the 
performance of Cineworld and Picturehouse is now reported 
together as “UK & Ireland”.
Box Office
The principal income for the UK & Ireland is box office 
revenue. Except for the revenue generated by Cineworld 
subscription services, box office revenue is a function of the 
number of admissions and the ticket price per admission, less 
VAT. Admissions in the period increased by 2.7%, combined 
with an increase in the average ticket price of 8.4% this 
resulted in double digit revenue growth of 11.4%. Box office 
revenues generated by the UK & Ireland cinema industry as 
a whole were up 17.4% during the same period (Source: UK 
Cinema Association). 
Overall box office performance was underpinned by a 
strong film slate in 2015 which included a number of global 
blockbusters. In 2015, in the UK as a whole, the top three films 
grossed £245.4m (“Spectre” – £93.8m, “Star Wars: The Force 
Awakens” – £87.3m and “Jurassic World” £64.3m) compared 
to the top three films in 2014 which grossed £100.4m 
(“The Lego Movie” – £34.3m, “Inbetweeners 2” – £33.4m 
and “Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” – £32.7m). 
The average ticket price achieved in the UK & Ireland grew 
by 8.4% to £6.13 (2014: £5.65). The increase in average ticket 
price was in part due to an inflationary price rise during 
the period, but is mainly reflective of the film mix and our 
continued expansion of the premium offerings including 
opening two new IMAX screens and launching the first 4DX 
screen in the UK. The most popular IMAX films during the 
period were “Star Wars: The Force Awakens”, “Spectre” and 
“Jurassic World” and for 4DX “Star Wars: The Force Awakens”, 
“Jurassic World” and “Fast & Furious 7”. 
Retail
Food and drink sales are the second most important source 
of revenue and represent 23.0% (2014: 23.3%) of the total 
revenues. Total retail revenues were £107.2m (2014: £99.2m) 
increasing by 11.3%. STRATEGIC REPORT
30
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Net retail spend per person increased by 8.4% in the 
period to £2.11 (2014: £1.94) partly due to the film mix, where 
blockbusters tend to attract higher retail spend per person, 
but also reflecting the expansion of our cinemas’ retail offer, 
strong promotions, growth in our Unlimited customer base 
and operational improvements. We opened a further four 
Starbucks outlets during the period taking our total circuit 
to 17 at 31 December 2015 with a number of further openings 
scheduled for 2016. Also, in December we opened our first 
VIP offering in our Sheffield cinema and we plan to open 
additional sites where we believe there is the appropriate 
market opportunity. 
Other Income
Other Income includes all revenue streams other than box 
office and retail and represents 10.0% (2014: 8.8%) of total 
revenue. It increased to £46.8m (2014: £37.6m) and grew 
by 26.8%.
The largest single element of Other Income is screen 
advertising revenue. Screen advertising revenue is collected 
through Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”), our joint 
venture screen advertising business. DCM’s primary function 
is to sell advertising time on cinema screens on behalf of 
Cineworld Cinemas, Picturehouse and its other clients. It also 
engages in related promotional work between advertisers 
and cinemas. Screen advertising revenue generally varies 
depending on the type of films screened, the minutes and 
value of advertising sold, the number of attendees who view 
the film, and the placement of the advertisement in relation 
to the start time of the film. The nature of the film mix during 
2015 had a positive impact on the advertising revenues 
as it delivered an attractive demographic to advertisers. 
Also included within Other Income is the online booking fee. 
The booking fee was re-introduced during 2014 and therefore 
2015 has seen the full year impact. The trend of booking online 
continues to increase, with total online bookings increasing 
12.0% year on year.
Central & Eastern Europe (“CEE”) and Israel
The combination with Cinema City International N.V. (“Cinema 
City” or CCI”), a leading cinema business in seven territories 
across Central & Eastern Europe & Israel completed in the 
prior period on 28 February 2014. The results for CEE & Israel 
are included in the Group’s consolidated performance and 
position for the comparative period for the 44 week period 
ended 1 January 2015.
52 WEEKS TO 
31 DECEMBER 
2015
53 WEEKS TO 
1 JANUARY 
2015
52 WEEK  
V 53 WEEK 
52 WEEK  
V 52 WEEK 
Admissions 42.7m 31.8m 34.3% 11.5%
£M £M
Box office 139.7 110.5 26.4% 12.9%
Retail 55.5 42.7 30.0% 18.1%
Other Income 44.7 40.7 9.8% 1.3%
Total revenue 239.9 193.9 23.7% 11.7%
The information below represents the pro-forma trading 
performance of CEE & Israel as if it had been part of the Group 
for 52 weeks in the prior period. The information is presented 
on a constant currency basis. 
Box Office
The principal income is box office revenue, which is a 
function of the number of admissions and the ticket price per 
admission, less sales tax. Admissions and box office revenue 
in CEE & Israel increased by 11.5% and 12.9% respectively. 
On a pro-forma basis there was growth in admissions 
across all territories, with double digit growth achieved in 
Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and Hungary. Admissions 
increased in Czech Republic by 19.1% predominantly due to 
improvements in the local economy and Romania by 15.1% 
due to our significant expansion, with 38 news screens 
opened during the period. 
The average ticket price increased overall by 1.3%, to £3.27, 
with increases across all territories apart from the Czech 
Republic and Slovakia. As with the UK & Ireland the increase in 
average ticket price was in part due to an inflationary price rise 
during the period, but also reflective of the film mix and the 
continued expansion of premium offerings, with a new IMAX 
screen in Jerusalem (Israel) and four additional 4DX screens 
opened during the period in, Yes Planet Haifa (Israel), Yes 
Planet Jerusalem (Israel), Bucharest MegaMall (Romania) and 
Constanta City Park (Romania). 
As with the UK, Hollywood films are popular in CEE & Israel 
and “Star Wars: The Force Awakes” was one of the top 
three films in five of the seven CEE & Israel territories. Family 
films account for a higher proportion of admissions in the 
region and “Minions” was also a top-three film in a six of the 
territories. Locally produced films continue to be popular 
in Poland and the top film in Poland during the period was 
“Listy Do Movie 2”. 
Retail
Food and drink sales to our customers are the second most 
significant source of revenue and represents 23.1% (2014: 
22.0%) of the total revenues. Total retail revenues were 
stronger at £55.5m (2014: 42.7m), an increase of 18.1%.
Retail spend per person increased by 5.7% to £1.30 (2014: 
£1.23) during the period, with increases achieved across all 
territories. The greatest increases were achieved in Poland and 
the Czech Republic and this was predominantly driven by the 
film mix but also due to operational improvements. 
Other income
Other income includes distribution, advertising and other 
revenues and represents 18.6% (2014: 21.0%) of the total 
revenues. The Forum Film brand is Cinema City’s film 
distribution business. Forum Film operates across the CEE 
& Israel region and distributes films on behalf of the major 
Hollywood studios as well as owning the distribution rights to 
certain independent movies. Distribution revenues increased 
by 9.0% on a pro-forma basis, largely driven by key titles in 
the period which were distributed by Forum Film including 
“Spectre”, “Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2” and “Star 
Wars: The Force Awakens”. New Age Media is Cinema City’s 
advertising and sponsorship arm. Revenues in respect of New 
Age Media decreased compared to the prior period as a result 
of no longer providing on and off-screen advertising to other 
cinema chains in the region. 
Financial Review continued STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 31
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following commentary on the profitability, cash flow and 
balance sheet focuses on the Group except where stated.
EBITDA and Operating Profit
Group EBITDA was up 22.7% to £155.3m (2014: £126.6m) 
compared to the prior period which included the ten months 
results for CEE & Israel.
EBITDA generated by the UK & Ireland increased by 21.4% 
during the period to £95.7m (2014: £78.8m). Excluding the 
impact of the 53rd week in the prior period EBITDA increased 
by 25.1%.The EBITDA margin of 20.5% represented a 2.0 
percentage point improvement from 2014, which is largely 
driven from the overall increase in admissions, improvement 
in both the average ticket price and spend per person as well 
as the savings achieved across a number of direct cost lines. 
EBITDA generated by the CEE & Israel increased by 24.8% 
during the period to £59.6m (2014: £47.8m) predominantly a 
result of being part of the Group for twelve months compared 
to ten in the prior period, and on a pro-forma basis the 
EBITDA increased by 9.4%. As the Group operates across 
nine territories, it is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. 
Wherever possible, cash income and expenditure are settled 
in local currency to mitigate exchange losses. However, 
there are translation exchange differences arising when 
presenting the year-on-year performance of CEE & Israel 
in the reporting currency of the Group. During the period, 
EBITDA of £155.3m was £5.3m lower than it would have been 
had it been translated by applying the exchange rates at the 
start of the year, and £2.4m lower based on the average rate 
for the comparable 2014 period. The EBITDA margin of 22.0% 
represents an increase of 1.4 percentage points compared 
to the prior period. 
Financial Performance
52 WEEK PERIOD ENDED  
31 DECEMBER 2015
53 WEEK 
PERIOD ENDED  
1 JANUARY 2015
UK & 
IRELAND
CEE &  
ISRAEL
TOTAL 
GROUP
TOTAL 
GROUP
(1)
Admissions 50.9 42.7 93.6 82.9m
£M £M £M £M
Box office 311.9 139.7 451.6 399.2
Retail 107.2 55.5 162.7 141.9
Other Income 46.8 44.7 91.5 78.3
Total revenue 465.9 239.9 705.8 619.4
EBITDA
(2)
95.7 59.6 155.3 126.6
Operating profit 71.3 31.8 103.1 76.0
Financial income 8.2 0.5 8.7 6.6
Financial expense (11.2) (0.9) (12.1) (15.2)
Net financing costs (3.0) (0.4) (3.4) (8.6)
Share of loss from joint venture – – – (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 68.3 31.4 99.7 67.3
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (12.9) (5.5) (18.4) (12.8)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 55.4 25.9 81.3 54.5
(1) Cinema City results consolidated for 44 weeks to 1 January 2015.
(2) EBITDA is defined as Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous leases and other non-recurring charges, impairments and reversals 
of impairments, transaction and reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets.
Operating profit of £103.1m was 35.7% higher than the prior 
period (2014: £76.0m). Operating profit included a number 
of non-recurring and non-trade related items that have a net 
impact of £2.8m (2014: £4.0m). These primarily related to:
• Transaction and reorganisation costs of £1.9m (2014: 
£6.9m) related to the integration of the two businesses
• A net credit of £1.7m (2014:£1.9m) related to onerous leases 
and other non-recurring charges which comprised a release 
in the onerous lease provisions due to improvements in 
future trading assumptions of £2.0m offset by an increase 
in the provision for dilapidations of £0.3m. 
• Impairments of £9.0m (2014: £1.0m credit) related 
to the write off of capital expenditure on weaker 
performing cinema sites, primarily the redevelopment 
of Picturehouse Central.
• The profit on the disposal of the Cambridge Cineworld 
cinema of £6.4m (2014: nil). 
The total depreciation and amortisation charge (included 
in administrative expenses) in the period totalled £49.4m 
(2014: £46.6m). Of this, £25.6m related to depreciation and 
amortisation in the UK & Ireland (2014: £25.0m) and £23.8m 
related to depreciation and amortisation in CEE & Israel 
(2014: £21.6m). 
Finance Costs
As part of the combination with Cinema City, the Group 
entered into a five-year facility in January 2014 which 
was used to part finance the combination, repay the pre-
combination facilities of both Cineworld and Cinema City and 
fund the general working capital requirements of the Group. 
The facility included term loans of £165.0m and €132.0m and 
revolving credit facilities of £75.0m and €60.0m. In June 2015, 
the first re-payments were made to the term loans, reducing 
the liabilities to £157.5m and €126.0m.  STRATEGIC REPORT
32
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
On 29 July 2015 Cineworld Group plc signed an amendment 
and extension to its existing banking facility, which was 
effective immediately upon signing and extends the facility 
to June 2020. As a result, the term loans were reduced from 
£157.5m and €126.0m to £130.0m and €63.0m. The Group 
now also has a revolving credit facility of £190.0m.
The facility remains subject to the existing two covenants: 
the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR 
(pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges. A margin, 
determined by the results of the covenant tests at a given 
date is added to LIBOR or EURIBOR. The margins currently 
applicable to Group are 1.65% on the term loans and 1.40% 
on the revolving credit facility.
The Group has hedging arrangements in place to mitigate 
the potential risk of a material impact arising from interest 
rate fluctuations. At 31 December 2015, the Group had six 
(2014: six) interest rate swaps, four GBP denominated swaps 
which hedged 59% (2014: 50%) of the Group’s variable 
rate GBP unsecured term loan, the two remaining Euro 
denominated swaps hedging 100% (2014:50%) of the Euro 
denominated unsecured loan. The amendment and extension 
of the Group’s financing during the year did not constitute a 
break in the existing hedge relationship and the criteria for 
hedge accounting are still met. As such, movements in the 
fair values of the swaps in the year have been recognised 
in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Net financing costs totalled £3.4m during the period (2014: 
£8.6m) which is a net decrease of £5.2m. Finance income 
of £8.7m (2014: £6.6m) included net foreign exchange gains 
of £8.0m (2014: £6.0m) on translation of the Euro term loan at 
the balance sheet date. £0.3m (2014: £0.3m) related to interest 
income and £0.4m (2014: £0.3m) related to finance income 
on assets held by defined benefit pension schemes.
Finance expense of £12.1m (2014: £15.2m) included £9.3m 
in respect of interest on bank loans and overdrafts (2014: 
£10.2m), with the decrease being the result of the reduction 
of the term loans. Other net finance costs of £2.8m (2014: 
£3.1m) included amortisation of prepaid finance costs of 
£1.3m (2014:£1.8m), £1.2m (2014: £0.4m) in respect of the 
unwind of discount and interest charges on property-related 
leases and £0.3m (2014: £0.9m) of other financial costs.
Taxation 
The overall tax charge during the year was £18.4m giving 
an overall effective tax rate of 18.5% (2014:19.0%). The tax 
rate during the current period reflects the impact of the tax 
rates applicable in the different territories in which the Group 
operates. The corporation tax charge in respect of the current 
year was £11.2m and the current deferred tax charge was £7.2m, 
resulting in a current year effective tax rate of 18.5% (2014: 
20.3%). The deferred tax charge principally related temporary 
differences on the recognition of property leasing costs.
Earnings
Profit on ordinary activities after tax in the period was £81.3m, 
compared to the comparative period (2014: £54.5m). The 
significant increase is attributable, in part to CEE & Israel being 
part of the Group for the full period, revenue growth across 
the Group as well as the cost savings achieved, predominantly 
in the UK & Ireland.
Basic earnings per share amounted to 30.7p (2014: 22.1p). 
Eliminating the one-off, non-trade related items described 
above (totalling £2.8m within operating profit), amortisation of 
intangibles of £4.2m and net foreign exchange gains of £3.9m), 
adjusted diluted earnings per share were 31.4p (2014: 24.4p). 
Balance Sheet
Overall, net assets have increased by £28.4m, to £534.7m 
since 1 January 2015. This is largely driven by the reduction 
in net debt of £36.7m as well as movements in non-current 
assets of £15.6m driven by the expansion and refurbishments 
of cinema sites during the year as part of the expansion and 
renovation programme and movements in other net liabilities 
of £23.9m. 
Cash Flow and Net Debt
The Group continued to be cash generative at the operating 
level. Total net cash generated from operations in the period 
was £165.9m (2014: £86.1m). 
Net cash spent on capital during the year was £88.6m. 
Included in this expenditure was £53.0m in relation to the 
development of new sites, £27.4m in respect of refurbishments 
and £8.2m on technology. 
Net debt decreased to £245.2m at the end of the current year 
compared to the prior year (2014: £281.9m). The movement 
was primarily due to the amendment of the Group’s banking 
facilities, with a reduction in the term loans during the period 
of £72.2m, repayments during the period of the term loans of 
£25.3m offset by a draw down on the revolving credit facility 
of £86.0m and bank loans of £3.3m and net cash inflows of 
£28.5m. Net debt at the period end represented 1.6 times 
the rolling 12 month EBITDA figure for the Group.
Combination with Cinema City
In the prior period on 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group 
plc announced the proposed combination with the cinema 
business of Cinema City International N.V. (“CCI”), by means 
of an acquisition of the shares in Cinema City Holding B.V. 
(“CCH”), a subsidiary of CCI. The combination was completed 
on 28 February 2014. Final cash consideration of £302.6m 
was part funded by an 8 for 25 Rights Issue which completed 
on 14 February 2014, raising net funds of £107.2m with the 
residual cash consideration being funded from the Group’s 
new debt facility. The Group issued to CCI shares in Cineworld 
Group plc which were valued at £208.0m when the combination 
completed on 28 February 2014. The consideration shares 
represented 24.9% of the post-rights issue share capital of 
the Group.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for approval 
a final dividend in respect of the period ended 31 December 
2015 of 12.5p per share, which taken together with the interim 
dividend of 5.0p per share paid in October 2015 equates to a 
total dividend in respect of 2015 of 17.5p per share (2014: 13.5p 
per share). The record date for the dividend is 10 June 2016 
and the payment date is 7 July 2016. Cineworld has increased 
its dividend every year since the Company was listed in 2007.
By order of the Board
Mooky Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2016
Financial Review continued STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 33
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Social Responsibility 
The Group seeks to integrate corporate social responsibility 
(“CSR”) considerations, relating particularly to social, ethical, 
health and safety, and environmental issues, in its day-to-day 
business operations. 
Ethics
Cineworld’s policy on ethics seeks to guide the behaviour 
of our people by specifying 12 principles which establish 
common values on which we do business. We strive to ensure 
that we act in appropriate ways to maintain and enhance 
our reputation. The principles provide a framework for how 
we manage corporate responsibility issues. The Company 
seeks to act with honesty and integrity in its dealings with 
customers, employees, shareholders, regulators and suppliers. 
How we behave in such dealings reflect on our reputation, 
which is a key asset underpinning the successful delivery 
of our strategy. 
Our Ethical Principles
1. We will act lawfully.
2. We will act with integrity.
3. We will respect our customers.
4. We will treat individuals properly.
5. We will compete fairly.
6. We will treat our suppliers properly.
7. We will manage relations with shareholders effectively.
8.  We will maintain high standards of financial record keeping 
and reporting.
9.  We will comply with the rules on inside information and 
share dealing.
10. We will maintain high standards of health and safety.
11. We will respect the environment.
12. We will seek to contribute to the community.
Community 
It is the aim of the Group to show a wide range of film 
product and other screen content, subject to film classification 
guidelines. Film programmes are tailored to each community 
and screenings are frequently driven by local preferences. 
Operating large sites with high numbers of screens enables 
us to offer a wide choice and bring more people into the 
cinema, frequently a different type of customer. Throughout 
the Group, all national regulators’ film classification guidelines 
are followed, unless the local regulators’ require otherwise. 
In some of our territories, there are no such classification 
guidelines, and in such cases we provide information to 
customers about films so they can make informed choices 
about the types of film being shown. We also ensure that 
all trailers are complementary in terms of suitability to the 
main feature.
Our work with charities, local government, and community 
groups across all the territories includes activities such as 
working with distributors on charity screenings and providing 
free shows for organisations working with disadvantaged 
children. In some territories our cinemas hold regular 
workshops for schools, designed in line with relevant 
national curriculums. 
At Picturehouse, work is undertaken with local groups, 
charities and educational bodies to deliver a year-round 
programme of film related activity that contributes to film 
knowledge and film culture at a local level. Examples of work 
with schools include screenings and talks for Anti Bullying 
Week and Black History Month and extensive activity around 
events such as Holocaust Memorial Day, World Book Day, 
Science and Engineering Week and Refugee Week. 
Cineworld also works as a venue partner for numerous 
film festivals. While many are well known and high profile, 
in certain territories Cineworld sponsors festivals showcasing 
local film producers’ work and runs short film competitions 
for students encouraging the development of future talent. 
This involvement once again helps to promote Cineworld’s 
brands through the wider film industry.
Access for All 
The Group actively promotes a philosophy of access for all 
by offering accessible cinemas that show a wide range of 
films and event cinema. Cinema management teams play an 
important role within the community and engage with local 
groups in order to identify opportunities that will enhance 
accessibility. Employees receive disability awareness training 
and specific advice on welcoming disabled customers. Many 
of our cinemas offer audio descriptive, autism-friendly and 
subtitled performances and in some territories, Cineworld 
allows customers with disabilities to be accompanied by 
a carer free of charge.
At Picturehouse, considerable attention is paid to ensuring 
that new and existing cinemas are disabled-friendly, and 
that staff are trained to attend to the needs of our disabled 
customers and their carers. Regular closed caption screenings 
are scheduled for the deaf and hard of hearing. Picturehouse 
also continues to work with the National Autistic Society 
to provide regular autism friendly screenings for the public 
and for schools. During 2015 the team developed the first 
Picturehouse Dementia Friendly Screenings with test 
screenings in Liverpool and Hackney, and it is intended 
that the programme will be rolled out over 2016.
The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure that 
the Group conducts its activities responsibly and 
with proper regard for all its stakeholders including 
employees, shareholders, business partners, 
suppliers and local communities.  STRATEGIC REPORT
34
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
All new cinemas are designed with an intention to exceed 
current statutory requirements and to provide buildings 
which are technically advanced, accessible and safe. 
When cinemas undergo major refurbishment as part of 
an ongoing programme of improvements and renovations, 
the opportunity is also taken to enhance access within 
cinemas where practicable to do so.
Cineworld actively encourages our future film going audience 
by specifically tailoring film schedules to attract families and 
young people. Where necessary, these performances are 
dubbed into the native language to ensure that all customers 
can enjoy the full cinema experience. Concessionary rates 
are offered for senior citizens and students at certain times 
of the day.
Film Piracy 
Cineworld is committed to protecting the intellectual property 
rights of films and Event Cinema exhibited within its cinemas. 
Across the Group, policies and procedures are constantly 
reviewed and developed to ensure cinema teams are able 
to effectively monitor and prevent film piracy. Night-vision 
technology is utilised and there is an increased vigilance 
around high-profile titles which are particularly vulnerable.
Cineworld will continue to work closely with relevant industry 
and law enforcement organisations in order to help reduce 
and prevent film piracy.
Environment 
Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant environmental 
legislation and to operate in an environmentally sensitive 
manner. The Directors acknowledge the impact that the 
business has on the environment and seek to mitigate it. 
Often changes which help to mitigate our environmental 
impact also reduce our operating costs. 
Being a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its 
total energy consumption and amount of waste materials 
generated and is actively working on reducing both energy 
usage and quantity of waste materials produced that cannot 
be recycled. In 2015 the Company participated with the 
Energy Savings and Opportunities Scheme (ESOS) which 
surveyed 10 cinemas and the UK head office to assess and 
identify energy savings opportunities. London based cinemas 
were entered into the Mayor of London Business Energy 
Challenge, which looks to acknowledge and share expertise 
in reducing the carbon foot-print of London businesses. 
Wireless energy management systems have been operated 
in a number of cinemas in five of the territories in which we 
trade to reduce energy usage since 2014, with considerable 
reductions being achieved. Where such a system is not 
operational, building management systems are utilised to 
reduce total energy by ensuring staff are fully trained in their 
use. The Group’s mandatory greenhouse gas report can be 
found in the Directors’ Report on page 78.
Our cinema websites enable e-tickets to be purchased 
and used avoiding the need to print tickets and, in many 
instances, poster cases are now digital reducing the need to 
deliver, install, and ultimately throw away large paper posters. 
All these efforts help to reduce our use of resources and 
carbon footprint.
The move away from 35mm celluloid prints and the use of 
digital projection technology has further reduced Cineworld’s 
environmental impact, reducing the use of raw materials for 
the production of bulky prints using chemical processes, 
which ultimately are shredded as they are unable to be 
recycled at the end of their relatively short life.
3D technology has its own environmental challenges with the 
use of special disposable 3D glasses. Throughout the Group, 
customers are encouraged to reuse their 3D glasses by pricing 
structures. This approach has had significant results.
Retail 
We offer a range of products to our customers in a way that 
is responsible, takes account of alternative healthier options, 
and reduces the impact on the environment. We continue to 
ensure that we provide good nutrition and allergen advice 
to enable our customers to make informed choices.
In line with our philosophy of offering wider snacking options 
we have now opened 17 Starbucks Licensed Stores across 
the UK estate, which have been well received. As many of 
our customers still associate going to the cinema as a treating 
or special occasion, they choose to eat traditional cinema 
snacks as part of their experience. However, we continually 
work with our partners to consider healthier alternatives 
where appropriate.
In our Picturehouse circuit, the food and drink proposition is 
more akin to that found in restaurants and closely tailored to 
the audience profile to which it caters. A wide range of snacks 
and meals are available, many of which include ingredients 
sourced from local producers and suppliers. In addition, the 
range of its retail products is extensive and offers low sugar 
and sugar free options.
Information on our policies on Diversity, Human Rights and 
Our People may be found in the Resources and Relationships 
section of the Report on pages 20 to 21.
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 34.
By order of the Board
Mooky Greidinger Israel Greidinger
10 March 2016 GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 35
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Governance GOVERNANCE
36
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Biographies
As at 31 December 2015
Anthony Bloom 
Chairman
Age 76 
Date appointed as Chairman: 
October 2004 
Tenure on Board: 
11 years 2 months
Independent: 
No
Committee memberships: 
No formal memberships, but attends all 
meetings by invitation
Israel Greidinger 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
Age 54
 
Date appointed to Board: 
February 2014
 
Tenure on Board: 
1 year 10 months
 
Independent: 
No
 
Committee memberships: 
None
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger 
Chief Executive Officer 
Age 63
 
Date appointed to Board: 
February 2014
 
Tenure on Board: 
1 year 10 months
 
Independent: 
No
 
Committee memberships: 
None
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience: 
• Extensive Board-level and Chairman 
experience in a range of companies, 
sectors and jurisdictions
• Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor 
of Law, University of Witwatersrand, 
South Africa
• Master of Law, Harvard Law School 
• Sloan Fellow, Graduate School of 
Business, Stanford University
• Doctor of Law (H.C.), University 
of Witwatersrand, awarded in 
recognition of his contribution 
towards establishment of a non-racial 
society in South Africa
• Chairman and Chief Executive of The 
Premier Group Limited (South Africa)
• Director of Barclays Bank 
(South Africa) 
• Director of South African Breweries
• Director of Liberty Holdings 
(South Africa)
• Director of RIT Capital Partners PLC 
• Deputy Chairman of Sketchley PLC 
Principal external appointments:
• Non-Executive Director of London 
Symphony Orchestra
• Non-Executive Director of 
TechnoServe, Inc.
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 20 years’ senior executive 
experience in the cinema industry in 
central and eastern Europe, and Israel 
• 1994–2014 Cinema City International 
N.V. (“CCI”), appointed Chief Financial 
Officer 1995
• 1985–1992 Managing Director of 
C.A.T.S. Limited (Computerised 
Automatic Ticket Sales)
• 1992 to 1994 President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Pacer C.A.T.S. Inc
Principal external appointments:
• Director of Israel Theatres Limited 
since 1994
• Non-Executive Director of Global City 
Holdings N.V. (formerly CCI) 
Israel is the brother of Moshe Greidinger. 
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 40 years’ senior executive 
experience in the cinema industry in 
central and eastern Europe, and Israel 
• 1994–2014 Cinema City International 
N.V. (“CCI”)
• Cinema City Group, various executive 
positions since 1984
• “Exhibitor of the Year Award” at 
ShoWest in Las Vegas in 2004 
• “International Exhibitor of the Year 
Award” at CineEurope, in Amsterdam 
in 2011, with special recognition for 
having developed new markets in 
Central and Eastern Europe
Principal external appointments:
• Non-Executive Director of Global City 
Holdings N.V. (formerly CCI) 
• Director of Israel Theatres Limited 
since 1983 
• Co-Chairman of the Cinema 
Owners Association in Israel since 
August 1996
• Head of the Board of Trustees of the 
Hebrew Reali School of Haifa 
Mooky is the brother of Israel Greidinger.  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 37
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Martina King 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 55
 
Date appointed to Board: 
July 2010 
Tenure on Board: 
5 years 5 months
Independent: 
Yes
 
Committee memberships: 
• Audit Committee
• Remuneration Committee (Chair)
Alicja Kornasiewicz 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 64
Date appointed to Board: 
May 2015
Tenure on Board: 
7 months
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships:
• Audit Committee
Scott S. Rosenblum 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 66
 
Date appointed to Board: 
February 2014
 
Tenure on Board: 
1 year 10 months
 
Independent: 
No
 
Committee memberships: 
• Nomination Committee 
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive experience in company 
turn around, management, marketing, 
online media, and data analytics.
• 2011–2012 Managing Director of 
Aurasma
• 2005–2014 Non-Executive Director 
Capita plc
• 1999–2004 Managing Director 
of Yahoo! UK and Europe
• 1993–1999 Managing Director 
of Capital Radio plc
 
Principal external appointments:
• CEO of Featurespace since 2012
• Non-Executive Director of 
Debenhams Plc since 2009
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive Central and Eastern Europe 
financial and political experience
• 2011–2012 Chairwoman of the 
Supervisory Board of Bank Pekao S.A.
• 2010–2011 President of the 
Management Board of Bank Pekao S.A.
• 2000–2010 Executive management 
roles at UniCredit Bank 
• 1997–2000 Secretary of State for the 
Ministry of the State Treasury of the 
Republic of Poland
Principal external appointments:
• Managing Director and Head of CEE 
for Morgan Stanley & Co, International 
PLC since 2012
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive experience of management 
of an international law firm, and of 
corporate governance and disclosure 
matters 
• Extensive experience and expertise 
in areas of general corporate and 
securities law, corporate finance, 
mergers and acquisitions, and 
joint ventures
• 2004–2014 member of the 
Supervisory Board of Cinema City 
International N.V. (“CCI”), appointed 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board 
of CCI on 14 November 2011. Also 
Chairman of the CCI Remuneration 
Committee and the CCI Appointment 
Committee of CCI from November 
2006 and was a member of the CCI 
Audit Committee
• Licensed as a lawyer and admitted to 
the New York Bar Association
Principal external appointments:
• Partner, Executive Committee 
and Co-Chairman of Corporate 
Department in the law firm of Kramer 
Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP, New 
York since 1991, and Managing Partner 
1994–2000
• Serves, and has served, as a director 
and advisor to the boards of various 
public and private companies GOVERNANCE
38
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Arni Samuelsson 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 73
 
Date appointed to Board: 
February 2014
 
Tenure on Board: 
1 year 10 months
 
Independent: 
Yes
 
Committee memberships: 
Nomination Committee 
Eric (Rick) Senat 
Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director
Age 66
 
Date appointed to Board: 
July 2010
 
Tenure on Board: 
5 years 5 months
 
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships: 
• Nomination Committee (Chairman)
• Remuneration Committee
Julie Southern
Non-Executive Director
Age 56
 
Date appointed to Board: 
May 2015
 
Tenure on Board: 
7 months
 
Independent: 
Yes
 
Committee memberships: 
• Audit Committee (Chair)
• Remuneration Committee
Relevant skills and experience:
• Over 40 years of cinema exhibition 
and film distribution experience, 
principally through SAMfélagið 
(Samfilm) – a cinema exhibitor and 
film distributor in Iceland, of which 
he has been joint owner and Chief 
Executive Officer since it was formed 
in 1975
• 1972–1982 Director and owner of 
Vikurbaer, a supermarket business 
in Keflavik
Principal external appointments:
• Chief Executive Officer of Samfilm 
EHF (SAMfélagið’s distribution arm) 
since 1975 
• Chief Executive Officer of SAMcinema 
(SAMfélagið’s cinema arm) since 1975
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 40 years’ experience in the 
film industry
• 1976–2001 Warner Bros, becoming 
Senior Vice President for Business 
Affairs in Europe. Closely associated 
with the “Harry Potter” films, 
“Greystoke”, “Batman”, “Superman” 
and many others
• 2001 – 2007 Director of Hammer 
Film Productions
• 1999 – 2003 Deputy Chair of the 
British Film Institute
• Solicitor and Bachelor of Law, 
University College London
Principal external appointments:
• Partner in The Blair Partnership – 
a literary agency – since 2011
• Non-Executive Director of 
Pottermore Limited since 2011
• Chairman of the London Film 
Museum since 2009
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Experience as a Chief Financial 
Officer and Chief Commercial 
Officer, driving strategy, revenue and 
commercial planning, and working 
across multiple industry sectors and 
sizes of organisations
• 2010–2013 Chief Commercial Officer 
of Virgin Atlantic Airways
• 2000–2010 Chief Financial Officer 
of Virgin Atlantic Airways
• 1996–2000 Group Financial Director 
of Porsche Cars GB Ltd
• 1988–1995 Finance Director of  
H J Chapman & Co 
• Chartered Accountant (ICAEW) 
and graduate of Cambridge 
University (Economics B.S)
Principal external appointments:
• Non-executive Director and Chair 
of the Audit Committee at Rentokil-
Initial Plc since 2014
• Non-Executive Director and Chair of 
the Audit Committee at DFS Furniture 
Plc since 2015
• Non-Executive Director at NXP 
Semiconductors N.V. since 2013
• Non-Executive Director and Chair of 
the Nomination and Compensation 
Committee at Gategroup Holding AG 
since 2015
Directors’ Biographies continued
As at 31 December 2015 GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 39
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Governance Statement
Introduction
Dear Shareholders
As Chairman of the Company, I am pleased to present our 
Corporate Governance Statement for 2015. 
It has been another full year for the Board and its Committees. 
In March, we announced that David Maloney and Peter 
Williams would be stepping down from the Board at the 
AGM in May, following nine years of service. In their place, 
we announced that Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz 
would be proposed as Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Following their election to the Board at the AGM, Julie became 
Chair of the Audit Committee, and I believe the business is 
already benefiting greatly from her substantial financial and 
commercial experience. In addition, Alicja has contributed 
significantly, reflecting her extensive experience and market 
knowledge of Central and Eastern Europe, thus further 
aligning the skillset of the Board with the strategy and recent 
growth into this geographical area, following Cineworld’s 
combination with Cinema City in 2014.
Following these Board changes, we also announced that 
Rick Senat, Independent Non-Executive Director, would 
become the new Senior Independent Director, in place of 
David Maloney. At the same time, Martina King was appointed 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee, in place of Peter 
Williams. Martina has served on the Committee since 2010, 
and is well placed to take on this important role. Julie also 
became a member of the Remuneration Committee and 
Alicja joined the Audit Committee. As a result of the new 
appointments, I am pleased to note that we now have 
substantial female representation on the Board.
In June, Philip Bowcock, Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), 
left the Board after three and a half years. An executive search 
is underway for Philip’s successor and, in the meantime, the 
CFO duties have been assumed by Israel Greidinger, our 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Further details of our search 
for a new CFO are set out in the Nomination Committee 
Report on page 45. 
The Audit Committee has continued with its important task 
of overseeing the work of external auditor, KPMG LLP, and 
the internal auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), 
to ensure that consistent and appropriate standards of 
financial reporting and internal controls are maintained 
across the Group. Particular focus has been on the area 
of risk, following the changes under the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code, and details of our work in this area are 
set out on pages 47 to 48.
In conclusion, I would like to confirm that the Board 
remains committed to ensuring that a high standard of 
corporate governance is continuously maintained throughout 
the Group, and that we meet the standards required of 
a FTSE 250 company.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman GOVERNANCE
40
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Directors’ Statements
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies 
listed on the London Stock Exchange for the period covered 
by this statement are contained in the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) published by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council in September 2014, and a copy is available on 
its website www.frc.org.uk. For the period ended 31 December 
2015, the Board considers that the Company was compliant 
with the provisions of the Code. 
Going Concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for 12 months from the date of signing these accounts. Thus 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the annual financial statements. In adopting the going concern 
basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have 
considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 
34 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 22. The 
financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities, as well as the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing capital, are described on 
pages 29 to 32. Financial risk management objectives, details 
of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposure 
to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in Note 21.
Viability 
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group 
over a three year period, taking into account the Group’s 
current position and the potential impact of the Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 22 to 28. Based 
on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period to December 2018. For more information 
on the viability assessment, please see pages 50 to 51 of 
the Audit Committee Report.
Robust Assessment of Principal Risks
The Directors consider they have undertaken a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency and liquidity. Please refer to 
pages 22 to 28 for further information on the Company’s 
principal risks and uncertainties, and their impact on the 
prospects of the Company.
Review of Internal Control and Risk Management
The Directors have carried out a review of internal control 
and risk management. Please refer to pages 47 to 48 for 
further information. 
Fair Balanced and Understandable
The Directors consider the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy. Please refer to page 50. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 41
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Application of Code Principles
The table below explains how the Company has applied the 
main principles of the Code. The information required to be 
disclosed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule (“DTR”) 
7.2.6 is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 75 to 79 
and is incorporated into this statement by reference.
A. Leadership
A.1 The Role of the Board
The Board met formally seven times during the year (including 
a strategy day) and held other meetings on an ad-hoc basis 
as required. There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for 
the Board, together with delegated authorities throughout 
the Group.
A.2 Division of Responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly 
defined. Tony Bloom, the Chairman, is responsible for the 
leadership and effectiveness of the Board and for overseeing 
the Board’s setting of strategy. Mooky Greidinger, the Chief 
Executive Officer, is responsible for leading the day-to-
day management of the Group and the implementation of 
the strategy.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages 
the meeting timetable (in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary) and facilitates open and constructive dialogue 
during the meetings.
A.4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment 
in Board meetings and actively invites the Non-Executive 
Directors’ views. The Non-Executive Directors provide 
objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management 
and meet regularly in the absence of the Executive Directors.
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The Composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly 
reviewing the composition of the Board. In making 
appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee 
considers the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience 
required in order to maintain an effective Board.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the 
Nomination Committee. Further details of the activities of the 
Nomination Committee can be found on pages 45 and 46.
B.3 Time Commitment 
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time 
commitment expected from them and details are set out in 
their letter of appointment. External directorships of Executive 
Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, 
are discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
B.4 Development 
All Directors receive induction training on joining the 
Board and, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, 
the development needs of each Director are checked.
B.5 Information and Support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, 
ensures that all Board members receive accurate and 
timely information.
B.6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation 
The Board and its Committees have undertaken an internal 
evaluation of their respective performances. Details of the 
evaluations can be found on page 44. An external assessment 
of the Board’s effectiveness will be held in 2016 in accordance 
with the Code.
B.7 Re-election of Directors 
All Directors are subject to shareholder election or re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and Business Reporting
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 34 and provides 
information about the performance of the Group, the business 
model, strategy and the principal risks and uncertainties 
relating to the Group’s future prospects.
C.2 Risk Management and Internal Control 
The Board decides the Group’s risk appetite and annually 
reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems. The activities of the Audit Committee, 
which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to 
the management of risk, are summarised on pages 50.
C.3 Audit Committee and Auditors 
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the 
Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s financial reporting processes, internal control and risk 
management framework, the work undertaken by the External 
Auditor, and the internal audit work of PwC. The Chair of the 
Audit Committee provides regular updates to the Board.
D. Remuneration
D.1 Level and Components of Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration 
appropriately with a view to ensuring the long-term success 
of the Company, but also structures remuneration so as to 
link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby 
aligning the executive management’s interests with those 
of the shareholders. Benchmarking exercises are carried 
out by external advisers to ensure remuneration levels 
are appropriate.
D.2 Procedure for Development of Remuneration Policy 
and Setting Remuneration Packages
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the 
approach to setting the remuneration policy and packages 
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
54 to 74.
E. Relations with Shareholders
E.1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue
The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders. 
The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with 
shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board 
is kept informed of shareholder views.
E.2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting 
The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity 
to meet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the 
members of the Board informally following the formal 
business of the meeting. GOVERNANCE
42
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Leadership
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the Company. The Board is responsible for the overall leadership 
of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable 
financial performance to enhance shareholder value. In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial and other 
resources are available to enable the Group’s objectives to be met. The basis on which the Board seeks to preserve value over 
the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 34.
The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also once for a strategy day. Ad hoc meetings of the Board take place as 
required. The meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board 
also meets, as and when necessary, to discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues. All Directors receive notice of such 
meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and medium-term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial performance; 
approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approval of site selection; succession planning; approving 
appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to Directors’ remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and an overview of Group financial and 
operational information.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the 
Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Mooky Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the 
Group’s responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders. He is responsible for organising the 
business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution 
of Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation of the Board and he regularly discusses matters with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. He holds regular meetings with his executive team consisting of senior executives 
who assist him in this task.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, 
and a Remuneration Committee, to which certain Board functions have been delegated. Each of these Committees has formal 
written terms of reference which clearly define their responsibilities. The terms of reference of each of the Board’s three 
Committees are available on the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/corporate-governance).
Changes to Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees
At the start of the period, membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was:
Chair Member Member
Audit Committee David Maloney Martina King Peter Williams
Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson
Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Martina King David Maloney 
Following the AGM, it was announced on 27 May 2015, that the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees had changed with effect from 26 May 2015 and became as set out below. It remained the same through to the 
end of the period:
Chair Member Member
Audit Committee Julie Southern Martina King Alicja Kornasiewicz
Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson
Remuneration Committee Martina King Rick Senat Julie Southern
All the Committees remained compliant with the Governance Code as regards their membership during the year. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 43
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Attendance at Meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Board 
(including 
strategy day)
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2
 
Attended
 
Attended
 
Attended
 
Attended
Directors for the whole year
Anthony Bloom 7/7
(1)
5/5
(3)
4/4
(3)
2/2
(3)
Israel Greidinger 7/7 N/A N/A N/A
Mooky Greidinger 7/7 N/A N/A N/A
Martina King 6/7 5/5 3/4
(1)
N/A
Scott Rosenblum 7/7 N/A N/A 2/2
Arni Samuelsson 7/7 N/A N/A 2/2
Rick Senat 7/7 N/A 2/2
(2)
2/2
(1)
Directors appointed 
Alicja Kornasiewicz (appointed 26 May 2015) 5/5
(2)
3/3
(2)
N/A N/A
Julie Southern (appointed 26 May 2015) 5/5
(2)
3/3
(1)(2)
2/2
(2)
N/A
Directors leaving during the year
Philip Bowcock (directorship ceased 9 June 2015) 3/3
(5)
N/A N/A N/A
David Maloney (directorship ceased 26 May 2015) 1/2
(4)
2/2
(4)
2/2
(4)
1/1
(4)
Peter Williams (directorship ceased 26 May 2015) 2/2
(4)
2/2
(4)
2/2
(4)
1/1
(4)
(1) Chairman of Board/Board Committee.
(2) Alicja Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern were appointed on 26 May 2015 and Rick Senat became a member of the Remuneration Committee on the 
same date. There were five Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, and two Remuneration Committee meetings between 26 May 2015 
and 31 December 2015, so they have each attended the maximum number of relevant meetings.
(3) Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation.
(4)  David Maloney and Peter Williams ceased to be Directors on 26 May 2015. There had been two Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, 
two Remuneration Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting in the period up to this date.
(5) Philip Bowcock ceased to be a Director on 9 June 2015. There had been three Board meetings in the period up to this date, so he attended the maximum 
number of meetings. GOVERNANCE
44
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Effectiveness
Directors and Directors’ Independence
At the start of the year, the Board was composed of ten 
members, five of whom were considered independent. 
Scott Rosenblum is not viewed as independent because 
of his previous business dealings with the Greidinger family 
and its interests.
On 11 March 2015 it was announced that David Maloney 
and Peter Williams would be standing down as independent 
Non-Executive Directors at the 2015 AGM, which was held 
on 26 May 2015, following nine years of service. At the 
same time, it was announced that Julie Southern would 
be proposed as independent Non-Executive Director at 
the AGM. Following her election at the AGM, Julie became 
a director, Chair of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
On 25 March 2015, it was further announced that Alicja 
Kornasiewicz would also be proposed as an independent 
Non-Executive Director at the AGM and, following her election 
on 26 May, she became a Director and a member of the 
Audit Committee. 
At the same time, Rick Senat became a member of the 
Remuneration Committee and was appointed Senior 
Independent Director, in place of David Maloney. The 
Committee changes were announced on 27 May 2015. 
At the end of the period, the Board was composed of nine 
members, of whom five were considered independent. Scott 
Rosenblum is not considered independent, as set out above. 
The names of the Directors at the year-end together with their 
biographical details are set out on pages 36 and 38.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-
Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment 
and are made available for inspection by any person at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours, 
and will be available at the AGM. Further details of the letters 
of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the 
service contracts of the Executive Directors can be found 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74.
For a FTSE 250 company, which the Company became in May 
2014, the Code recommends that a majority of non-executive 
members of the Board of Directors should be independent 
in character and judgement, and free from relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to 
affect, their judgement. The Board considers that Martina 
King, David Maloney, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat, Peter 
Williams, Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were, for 
the period (or the part of the period for which they served), 
independent Non-Executive Directors.
The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective 
viewpoint and range of experience to the Company and 
ensure that no individual or group of individuals is able to 
dominate the Board’s decision making. They play a key role 
in reviewing proposals and providing constructive challenge 
generally and in particular in respect of strategy. They also 
ensure that appropriate standards are being maintained. 
All the Non-Executive Directors have access to independent 
legal advice subject to consulting with the Board and following 
the agreed procedure.
Rick Senat, the SID, is available to shareholders if they have 
concerns which contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive 
or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which 
contact is inappropriate. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and 
supporting the Chairman and the Board on Corporate 
Governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed 
and facilitating the good information flow within the Board 
and the Board appointed Committees.
Performance Evaluation
Towards the end of the year, performance evaluation 
questionnaires in respect of the Board, the Audit, the 
Remuneration, and Nomination Committees, and each 
individual Director including the Chairman, were circulated. 
The results of the questionnaires were then collated by the 
Company Secretary and a summary presented to the relevant 
Committee and the Board. In the case of the Remuneration 
Committee, the evaluation was deferred until the beginning 
of 2016 to allow the newly formed Committee sufficient 
meetings upon which to comment, given the changes to 
its composition in the year. The evaluation confirmed that 
overall the Board and Committee processes were working 
well. The performance evaluation in 2016 will be carried out 
with an external facilitator in accordance with the Code.
Re-election
All the Directors will be retiring and will be offering themselves 
for re-election at this year’s AGM, reflecting current best 
practice under the Code. Biographical details of all the 
current Directors are set out on pages 36 and 38. In view 
of the performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that 
each Director standing for re-election continues to show 
the necessary commitment and continues to be an effective 
member of the Board due to his or her skills, expertise and 
business acumen. 
Chairman’s Commitments
The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, 
but the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere 
with the performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 45
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Nomination Committee Report
Chairman’s Introduction
Dear Shareholders 
I am pleased to present our report on the Nomination 
Committee and its activities during the year.
As you will have noted from the Chairman’s letter above, 
there were a number of changes to our Board and its 
Committees during the period, with three directors stepping 
down, and the appointment of two new independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
Our aim throughout this period has been to ensure that 
the Company has maintained a strong and effective Board, 
with appropriate structures for its Committees. A focus 
on succession planning during the early part of the year 
in relation to David Maloney and Peter Williams, who had 
indicated their intention to stand down at the 2015 AGM, 
allowed for the steady transition in May to the revised 
Board composition.
The changes to the Board also meant some alterations to 
the constitution of our Committees in May, as set out in more 
detail on pages 42.
Subsequent to these changes, our usual Board and 
Committee evaluations were carried out, and it is pleasing 
to be able to report that, overall, the results suggest that 
individuals have settled into their new roles well, and that 
the Board and Committees are working well. 
One further change is my own appointment to the position 
of Senior Independent Director, on the recommendation of 
my fellow Committee members. It was a role I was pleased 
to take over from David, and I look forward to continuing 
his work in engaging with our shareholders. 
June saw the departure of our then current CFO, Philip 
Bowcock, who left the Company after three and a half years 
of service. We have instigated an executive search for his 
replacement, and we expect to make an announcement 
on this matter shortly. Information on how we recruit is set 
out in more detail below on pages 46. In the interim period, 
Israel Greidinger has assumed the responsibilities of the CFO.
Last year in my introductory letter, I noted the Committee’s 
desire to make more progress at a Board level with regard to 
diversity. It is pleasing that within our approach of appointing 
the best person for each role on merit, following the 
appointment of Julie and Alicja in May, we now have thirty-
three percent female representation on the Board, together 
with directors from a range of different countries, cultures, 
and backgrounds.
Lastly, I would like to thank my fellow members who have 
served with me on the Committee for their efforts and 
support. We believe that the revisions during the year 
have resulted in a Board composition that has evolved in 
areas that are key to complementing our business strategy, 
and driving the success of the business.
Rick Senat
Chairman of the Nomination Committee GOVERNANCE
46
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Composition 
During the year, the Committee comprised three 
Non-Executive Directors (namely Scott Rosenblum, 
Arni Samuelsson and Rick Senat). While Arni Samuelsson 
is considered independent, Scott Rosenblum is not. 
The majority of the Committee are independent as 
required by the Code.
The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging 
its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It 
is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, the size, structure and 
composition of the Board, retirements and appointments 
of additional and replacement Directors, the independence 
of Directors, and it makes appropriate recommendations to 
the Board on such matters. It is also responsible for ensuring 
that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties 
on appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being 
specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are available on the Company’s website  
(www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/corporate-governance).
The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during the 
financial year and for other meetings as required on an ad-
hoc basis. Due to the important role that the Directors play 
in the success of the Group, the Chairman is invited to attend 
meetings, and does so, except when his own position or his 
successor is being discussed.
During the year, the Committee recommended the 
appointment of new Directors, reviewed its own performance, 
reviewed the structure of the Board and the three 
Committees, and discussed succession and diversity issues. 
Board Diversity
While the Committee considers diversity to be important 
when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible 
new appointees, it believes that the single most important 
factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it considers, 
on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular role. It 
is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board 
representation to be achieved by particular dates. As part 
of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that 
candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds should be 
considered and, where reasonably possible, shortlists should 
comprise of candidates of both sexes. Whilst following this 
policy, as a result of the recruitment of Julie Southern and 
Alicja Kornasiewicz, there is now over thirty-three percent 
female representation on the Board.
Recruitment Process for Board Directors
As part of planning for the succession process, the 
Nomination Committee engaged external search consultancy 
Odgers Berndtson to assist with the search for appropriately 
qualified replacements for David Maloney and Peter Williams, 
who had informed the company that they planned to step 
down from the Board at the AGM in May 2015.
Following interviews carried out by members of the 
Committee, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief 
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer at the time, the 
Committee recommended to the Board that Julie Southern 
and Alicja Kornasiewicz should be appointed as Non-
Executive Directors and that both should also become 
members of the Audit Committee, and that Julie should 
become Chair. It was also recommended that Julie become a 
member of the Remuneration Committee. The Board agreed 
with these recommendations and Julie and Alicja were duly 
elected by shareholders at the AGM, and the Committee 
changes were announced on 27 May 2015. 
Odgers Berndtson, the external search consultancy used 
for this search, has no connections with the Group or any 
of its Directors.
At the same time, the Committee also recommended that 
Martina King, a current Non-Executive Director and member 
of the Remuneration Committee should become Chair of 
the Remuneration Committee with effect from the AGM, 
and the Board also approved this recommendation. 
A search for a new CFO is currently underway, and executive 
search agency, Norman Broadbent has been consulted. 
Norman Broadbent has no connections with the Group 
or any of its Directors.
Other Changes
On 27 May 2015, it was announced that Rick Senat was to 
become the new Senior Independent Director with effect 
from 26 May 2015 and on 9 June 2015 it was announced that 
Fiona Smith was to take over from Richard Ray in the role 
of Company Secretary with effect from 30 June. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 47
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Accountability
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual 
Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a 
fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
financial position and prospects. The detailed work to ensure 
this, and to substantiate the fair, balanced and understandable 
statement, is undertaken by the Audit Committee.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, 
monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk 
management and internal control. These systems provide 
reasonable assurance that the Group’s assets are safeguarded 
and that material financial errors and irregularities are 
prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Code:
• there is an on-going and robust process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the 
Group (for more details please see Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 22 to 28);
• the systems have been in place for the year under review;
• the systems are regularly reviewed by the Executive 
Directors and Board and are deemed to be effective with 
no significant weaknesses identified; and 
• the systems comply with the FRC guidance on risk 
management, internal control and related financial 
business reporting. 
During 2015 the Board has directly, and through delegated authority 
to the executive management team and the Audit Committee, 
overseen and reviewed the performance and evolution of the 
approach to risk management and internal control. 
Risk Management
The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and the 
executive management team, has overall responsibility for 
implementing an effective risk management approach. In 
January 2015 the Audit Committee approved an updated Risk 
Management Framework. The framework sets out the policy, 
oversight structure, accountability, monitoring and reporting 
of risk within the Group, and facilitates the following objectives 
for risk management:
• identify, measure, control and report on business risk that 
will undermine the achievement of the Group strategic 
objectives, both strategically and operationally, through 
appropriate analysis and assessment criteria;
• better allocate effort and resources for the management 
of key and emerging risks;
• drive business improvements and improved intelligence 
for key decision making; and
• support and develop the Company’s reputation as a well 
governed and trusted organisation.
The application of the key components of the Risk 
Management Framework have been: 
Oversight structure and accountability – the implementation 
of a risk management oversight and accountability structure 
has ensured that risk consideration has been undertaken from 
both a ‘top-down’ and ‘bottom-up’ perspective. As a result, 
the Group has established a Group Strategic Risk Register as 
well as operational risk registers for Group support functions 
and cinema operations. 
On-going process – the updated risk management process has 
been consistently applied at both a strategic and operational 
level. The approach has been focused on risk identification 
(using cause and effect analysis), inherent and residual risk 
assessment, key controls identification, and the development 
and implementation of further mitigation strategies where 
required. As part of this process, risk appetite is considered for 
each of the principal risks, allowing the Board to clearly set out 
the nature and extent of the risk the Group is willing to accept 
in pursuit of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Escalation, monitoring and reporting – a clear escalation 
criteria is in place to ensure changes to risk exposure are 
notified up through the governance structure as required. 
Risk leads are identified for all risks and have the responsibility 
for ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls 
and the progress against the implementation of further 
mitigating actions. 
There is a cycle of on-going monitoring and reporting activities 
in place with risk information being presented to the Board, 
Audit Committee, and the executive management team.
Culture – to support embedding the application of the Risk 
Management Framework into the culture and behaviours of 
the Group, on-going training and communication has been 
delivered to develop its risk registers. Details of the Group’s 
principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated 
are provided on pages 22 to 28.
Internal Control
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, 
it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the system 
of internal control to the executive management team. The 
detailed review of internal control has been delegated to the 
Audit Committee. Senior management within each part of the 
Group is responsible for internal control and risk management 
within its own area and for ensuring compliance with the 
Group’s policies and procedures.
 
Internal Audit – the Audit Committee maintains an internal 
audit process, carried out by PwC and the in-house Internal 
Audit team, to review the systems and control procedures 
throughout the Group. The Internal Audit Plan is a combination 
of Group wide risk based reviews (providing assurance over 
the key controls relied upon for the principal risks) as well as 
specific reviews requested by management.  GOVERNANCE
48
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
During the year, there was an update of the cinema 
compliance audit programme and the introduction of a self-
assessment approach for cinema managers. Each cinema in 
the Group is risk assessed based on financial, operational and 
management information to determine which cinemas would 
be included in the audit programme for the year. 
Business Continuity Plans for Head Office are in place with 
components of the plan being reviewed and tested on a 
regular basis. A whistleblowing policy is in place to protect 
members of staff who raise concerns about impropriety, 
financial or otherwise.
The lead partner of the PwC internal audit team reports 
directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and presents the 
findings of his team at Audit Committee meetings. Progress 
reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to 
the Audit Committee (more details of the Audit Committee’s 
2015 activities are set on page 50).
The External Auditor provides a supplementary, independent 
and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal 
control system, which they assess in the course of their work. 
Their findings are reported to both the Audit Committee 
and the Board.
Operational controls – the Executive Directors on a day-to-
day basis have involvement in reviewing the key operations 
of the business through their interaction with their senior 
management across the Group and their discussions on 
operational performance and delivery.
Financial Control – the Group has in place internal control 
and risk management arrangements in relation to the Group’s 
financial reporting processes and the preparation of its 
consolidated accounts. The arrangements include procedures 
to ensure the maintenance of records which accurately 
and fairly reflect transactions to enable the preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU or FRS 101, 
as appropriate, with reasonable assurance and that require 
reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate 
monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
On-going financial performance is monitored through regular 
reporting to Executive Directors and monthly reporting to 
the Board. Capital investment and all revenue expenditure 
is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, 
with post-investment and period end reviews as required. 
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to 
submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended 
by the Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board 
for approval.
Across all territories, a minimum financial controls checklist 
is in place for all Finance Directors. On an annual basis they 
are required to undertake a self-assessment sign-off of these 
controls which is then followed up by Internal Audit reviews 
for compliance validation.
Other Assurance Activities – Health and Safety audits continue 
to take place throughout the year across the Group and 
customer surveys take place to ensure that customers are 
receiving the best viewer experience. 
The Board is satisfied that for the financial period in question 
these measures were in place throughout the Group and it 
complied with the requirements of the Code in this regard.  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 49
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Audit Committee Report
Chair’s Introduction
Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit 
Committee (the “Committee”) for the first time in my role 
as Chair. I would like to thank David Maloney for his work 
until May 2015, and also my fellow Committee members 
for their support and efforts during the year. 
The report sets out details of the activities undertaken 
by the Committee during the period in order to discharge 
its responsibilities in relation to supporting the Board 
in its oversight and monitoring of the robustness and 
integrity of financial reporting, and in gaining assurance 
on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal 
control system. 
The Committee’s responsibilities in the area of financial 
reporting require that we consider and report on the 
significant risks and issues in relation to the financial 
statements, and consider how these would be addressed. 
Significant matters that have been identified for the year 
are the Group’s onerous lease provisions, the recognition 
of the virtual print fee, and the valuation of property, plant 
and equipment, and our formal position on the issues is 
set out on page 51. 
In response to the introduction of the 2014 edition of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (“Code”), the Group 
has continued to evolve its approach to risk management 
and internal control, building on the introduction of its 
Risk Management Framework in 2014. The output of this 
continued work has been a more enhanced view of the 
risks faced at an operational level, and the development of 
a Board view on risk appetite. Both of these elements have 
contributed to further embedding risk consideration as part 
of the culture of the Group, and ensuring we have a robust 
view of our principal risks, including how such risks might 
affect our business model, future performance, solvency 
and liquidity. 
During 2015, the Committee has also continued to review 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system, 
using a combination of internal dedicated resources and 
support from PwC to deliver an assurance programme. 
Another area of focus has been the assessment of the 
viability of the Group over the longer term, and more 
information on our viability statement is set out on page 50.
Lastly, in February 2016 we instigated a tender process 
in respect of the 2016 audit. More details of the tender may 
be found on page 52. 
Julie Southern
Chair of the Audit Committee GOVERNANCE
50
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Composition
At the start of the year, the Committee comprised three 
independent Non-Executive Directors (namely David 
Maloney, Martina King, and Peter Williams). David Maloney 
and Peter Williams left the Committee in May 2015, and 
Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were appointed 
as members of the Committee in their place, with Julie 
becoming Chair. Julie is a chartered accountant and is 
considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience. 
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other 
senior executives, other Directors, the Internal Auditor and 
the External Auditor may be invited to attend meetings, 
but are not members.
Roles and Responsibilities
The Committee has a clear set of responsibilities that are 
set out in its Terms of Reference, which are available on 
the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/
corporate-governance). The Committee assists the Board 
in discharging its responsibility with regard to financial 
reporting, the control environment, and the work of the 
External and Internal Auditors, including:
• monitoring the financial reporting process;
• reviewing the integrity of the Annual and Half-Year 
Reports, including reviewing significant financial 
judgements therein;
• reviewing the Group’s risk assessment process, the 
output of that assessment and the associated risk 
management systems;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls;
• considering the scope of both the Internal and External 
Auditors’ activities, their reports and their effectiveness;
• reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit 
work undertaken by the External Auditor; and
• advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 
Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
What the Committee Did in 2015
The Audit Committee met five times during the year, during 
which time it:
• monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed 
the interim and annual financial statements (including 
the preliminary announcement) with particular reference 
to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, 
together with significant estimates and financial reporting 
judgements and the disclosures made therein;
• considered the interim results and the Annual Report 
and Accounts in the context of the requirement that 
they are fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing 
periodic papers prepared by management with regard 
to this principle. This included reviewing the documents 
to ensure that the description of the business agrees 
with our own understanding, the risks reflect the issues 
that concern us, the discussion of performance properly 
reflects the relevant period and that there is a clear link 
between all the areas of disclosures;
• received and discussed (in the absence of management, 
where appropriate) reports from the External Auditor 
in respect of their review of the interim results, the audit 
plan for the year and the results of the annual audit. 
These reports included the scope for the interim review 
and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the 
External Auditor to evaluate and conclude on key areas 
of the audit, their assessment of materiality, the terms of 
engagement and raising awareness to the Committee 
of the likely impact of future changes to regulation and 
accounting standards;
• monitored the performance of PwC as the Internal 
Auditor, reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
financial controls together with its broader internal control 
and risk management framework, identifying the need 
for consistent and appropriate financial controls across 
the Group;
• monitored the implementation of the Group’s internal 
audit plan for 2015, including implementation of a new risk 
management framework, our risk-based assurance plan 
for our financial control environment and our Group wide 
cinema compliance programme;
• reviewed the results of non-financial audits (including 
food hygiene and fire safety) and where applicable 
agreed enhancements to procedures and reviewed 
remedial actions;
• made recommendations to the Board with regard to 
continuing the appointment and remuneration of the 
External Auditor, oversaw the Group’s relations with the 
External Auditor and their independence and monitored 
the effectiveness of the audit process;
• discussed the new requirements for a longer term viability 
statement and the related assessment work to enable the 
Board to make such a statement;
• monitored the requirements to tender the audit 
periodically; and
• reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference. 
Going Concern
In recommending the adoption of the going concern basis 
for preparing the financial statements, the Audit Committee 
considered the business activities, as well as the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 22 to 
28, and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position, and borrowing facilities, as well as the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
capital, as described on pages 29 to 32 and the financial 
risk management objectives, details of financial instruments 
and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk as set out in Note 21.
Viability 
Part of the Audit Committee’s work in the year has been 
to discuss and consider the new requirement under the 
Code for a longer term viability statement, and the related 
assessment work needed in order to enable the Directors 
to make such a statement.
Following work overseen by the Audit Committee, the 
Directors have determined that a three year period to 
31 December 2018 constitutes an appropriate period over 
which to provide its viability statement. This is based on 
the Group’s strategic forecast period which is driven by 
the visibility of the future film slate, the Group’s property 
expansion and renovation plans, investment in technology, 
and relationships with the film distributors.  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 51
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors’ viability assessment has taken into 
consideration the potential impacts of the principal risks 
in the business model, future performance, solvency and 
liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating 
actions such as reducing capital expenditure and 
dividend payments. 
In performing our stress-testing the Directors have 
considered the principal risks identified by the Group, in 
particular the impact of a fall in revenue, from a reduction 
in admissions or the average ticket price, either as a result 
of the deterioration in the film distributor relationships or 
the availability of quality film slate from the distributors. 
In performing the stress-test, with a decrease in revenues 
greater than levels previously experienced by the Group, the 
Group would still be able to continue to meet its day to day 
liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018. 
Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that 
the Group may face, the Directors consider that this 
stress-testing based assessment of the Group’s prospects 
is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent 
uncertainty involved. The Directors’ Viability Statement 
is set out on page 40.
Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the  
Financial Statements
During the year the Committee, management and the 
External Auditor considered and concluded on what the 
significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial 
statements and how these would be addressed.
(i) Onerous Lease Provisions
As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the 
approach to estimating the onerous lease provision has 
remained consistent with the prior period. It is noted that 
changes in performance of individual sites and the sensitivity 
of inputs mean that the provision is inherently subjective. 
Management evaluate the appropriateness of the provision 
on at least an annual basis. The exercise involves reviewing 
forecast future earnings on a site-by-site basis and ensuring 
that the provision in place remains at an appropriate level. 
As well as considering site performance, management also 
consider the appropriateness of the discount rates applied, 
the country specific discount rate, and ensure that they are 
updated for current market information and the Group’s 
current leverage. 
Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that 
the methodology had been applied consistently during 
the current year and none of the Committee’s other 
enquiries, nor the Auditor’s work, identified any errors 
or inconsistencies that were material in the context of the 
financial statements as a whole. Management confirmed 
that they have monitored the adequacy of the provision 
historically and concluded that there have been no material 
unprovided costs or unrequired provision identified.
(ii) Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) Recognition
As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, a VPF is 
recognised on the date of the showing of the film to which it 
relates. Its recognition in the Statements of Profit or Loss and 
Other Comprehensive Income does therefore not necessarily 
align with when the cash is received. There is therefore an 
element of judgement applied to the accounting process. 
The approach for recognising VPFs has remained consistent 
with the prior period for the UK & Ireland. Cinema City also 
has VPF contracts, however these are direct with distributors 
as opposed to via an agent. The Committee satisfied 
themselves that the existing approach was appropriate 
and resulted in accurate recognition by enquiring of 
management and the External Auditor.
As there can be a timing difference between recognition 
in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and cash 
receipt of the VPF income, the Committee enquired of 
management as to whether or not the recovery of cash 
was a risk. Management presented regular updates to the 
Committee which showed the recovery of the VPF income 
by comparing the revenues recognised during the year to 
the cash received. Management reported that there were 
no significant amounts which had not been recovered in line 
with the standard payment terms agreed with the VPF agent 
or distributor, accordingly the Committee was satisfied that 
the risks around non-recovery of cash were minimal. 
(iii) Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment (“PPE”)
As detailed in Note 9 to the financial statements, there is a 
significant inherent risk that the Group’s considerable PPE 
balances may prove to be irrecoverable, due to fluctuations 
in the underlying performance of cinemas or one-off events. 
Given the difficulties involved in predicting the performance 
of sites operated by the Group, in multiple territories 
with differing factors to consider, there is an element of 
judgement applied to the potential level of impairments to 
be recognised on a cinema-by-cinema basis. At each balance 
sheet date, management prepare their valuation model 
which assesses net present value of the cinema-by-cinema 
cash flows, based on the Board approved budget over an 
assumed 20 year life. The main assumptions over growth 
rates, the impact of one-off events, expected cost increases 
and discount rates are updated to reflect management’s 
best estimate.
At the period end management prepared their valuation 
model for the Committee’s consideration, together with 
their proposed site impairments. Management confirmed 
to the Committee that they have applied a consistent Group 
wide methodology in the preparation of the valuation 
model and the Committee satisfied itself that the approach 
was appropriate, the assumptions reasonable and that 
the impairments proposed were complete and accurate. 
The Committee also satisfied itself through enquiry of 
management and review of the Board papers that all 
significant events which may have impacted on the valuation 
of PPE had been appropriately captured in management’s 
assumptions and reflected in the valuation model. GOVERNANCE
52
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
External Audit
The Committee reviews the appointment of the External 
Auditor each year before the cycle of audit commences 
and in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes 
note, amongst other matters, of the quality of the service 
received, the proposed fees and the Auditor’s independence. 
Management and all members of the Committee are 
consulted during the process. Further details of these 
processes are set out below.
Effectiveness
During the year, the Committee evaluated the performance 
and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed their effectiveness 
as External Auditor. The effectiveness of the 2015 audit was 
assessed by reference to the following:
• the lead audit engagement partner, including the support 
provided to the Audit Committee;
• the skills and experience of the wider audit team and their 
execution of the audit;
• the planning and scope of the audit including 
identification of areas of audit risk and communication 
of any changes to the plan, including changes in perceived 
audit risks;
• the quality of communication with the Audit Committee, 
including the regular reports on accounting matters, 
governance and control; 
• the competence with which the External Auditor 
handled the key accounting and audit judgements 
and communication of the same with management 
and the Committee;
• their reputation and standing, including their 
independence and objectivity and their internal quality 
procedures; and 
• the quality of the formal report to shareholders.
Further, at the conclusion of each year’s audit, the 
Committee discusses the performance of the External 
Auditor with the Executive Directors and relevant senior 
finance managers considering areas such as the quality of 
audit team, business understanding, audit approach and 
management. Where appropriate, actions are agreed against 
the points raised and subsequently monitored for progress. 
There were no significant findings from the evaluation 
this year. 
After taking into account all of the above factors, the 
Committee concluded that the External Auditor was 
effective. In addition, the Committee is satisfied that 
it has sufficient oversight of the External Auditor and 
its independence and objectivity is not comprised due 
to the safeguards in place.
Independence
Professional standards normally require the Senior Statutory 
Auditor (“SSA”) to be rotated every five years, which would 
have meant a new partner being appointed for the audit 
of the 2014 financial year. As previously disclosed, the 
Audit Committee considered that in the circumstances 
of the combination with the business of Cinema City it 
was necessary to extend the tenure of the SSA in order to 
safeguard the quality of the external financial statement audit. 
The Audit Committee therefore requested that the current 
partner continue in that role, initially for 2014. In 2015, after 
further consideration, the Committee requested a further 
extension for the 2015 financial year while the integration of 
the businesses completed. KPMG agreed to both requests. 
With the integration complete, subject to the outcome of the 
audit tender (described more fully below), Mark Summerfield 
will rotate and be replaced as SSA by Hugh Green. The 
Committee participated fully in Hugh’s selection and believe 
he has substantial, relevant experience, and would like to 
thank Mark for his significant contribution over the years.
The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess 
whether, in their professional opinion, they are independent 
and confirm this to the Comittee. KPMG has provided 
this confirmation.
Appointment and Tender
In February 2016, the Audit Committee instigated a tender 
process for its 2016 audit. The process, which is being 
overseen by the Audit Committee, is underway at the 
date of this Annual Report, and the results of the tender 
will be announced by the Company in due course. As part 
of the process, the Audit Committee will negotiate and 
agree the scope of the audit, and the fee. The audit has 
not been tendered since the Group listed in 2007 and, 
following the completion of the integration with Cinema 
City, it was considered to be an appropriate time to proceed 
with the tender. The Company considers it has complied with 
the Competition and Markets Authority’s Statutory Audit 
Services Order. 
Non-Audit Services
The Committee considers the independence of the External 
Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to 
consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the 
External Auditor to perform non-audit services. In particular, 
under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs 
to be approved by the Committee if the value of such work 
is likely to be greater than £30,000. KPMG have provided 
certain non-audit services to the Group, principally in 
respect of advice on tax compliance and advisory services 
(£464,000), pensions advisory services (£90,000), and 
accounting advisory services (£20,000). Further details are 
set out in Note 4 to the financial statements. The Committee 
is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by KPMG 
and their objectivity has not been impaired by reason of 
this further work.  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 53
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme 
to help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio 
of insurance policies is kept under regular review with its 
insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s activities and exposures in light of cost, and the 
likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Remuneration Committee
Composition 
At the start of the year, the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors (Martina 
King, David Maloney, and Peter Williams). David Maloney 
and Peter Williams left the Committee in May 2015, and Julie 
Southern and Rick Senat were appointed as members of the 
Committee in their place. At the same time, Martina King 
became Chair of the Committee. The Committee met four 
times during the year and, in addition, a number of ad hoc 
times to deal with specific issues. 
Roles and Responsibilities
The activities of the Remuneration Committee are covered in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74, and 
are incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement 
by reference.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in 
determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, 
including making recommendations to the Board on the 
Group’s policy on executive remuneration, determining the 
individual remuneration and benefits package of each of 
the Executive Directors and monitoring and approving the 
remuneration of senior management below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson 
(now Willis Towers Watson following the merger with Willis in 
January 2016) as an external adviser in November 2008 and 
again took advice from them during the year. Willis Towers 
Watson have no other connection with the Group except 
as the actuary to the pension schemes of Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions 
by invitation except when his own position is being discussed. 
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of 
the Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of 
the Committee and does so except when his own remuneration 
is being considered. The Committee does not deal with the 
fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors. The report of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 54 to 74.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on 
the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/
corporate-governance).
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional 
and private investors. An Annual Report and Accounts is 
sent to all new shareholders and is otherwise made available 
to shareholders via the Company’s website unless they 
have specifically requested that a copy is sent to them. 
Presentations are given to shareholders and analysts following 
the announcement of the interim results and the preliminary 
announcement of the full year results. Trading updates are 
typically issued in January and June, as well as during the 
first and third quarters. 
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer (or 
acting Chief Financial Officer) who have regular contact with 
investors over such matters, the Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director have met and are available to meet 
with shareholders as, and when, required. Additionally, the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (or acting 
Chief Financial Officer) provide focal points for shareholders’ 
enquiries and dialogue throughout the year. The whole Board 
is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of 
shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes 
in the Company’s share register and market movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. 
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination 
Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, 
and that all Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides 
an overview of the business. Major Group announcements 
are available on the website and new announcements are 
published without delay. All major announcements are 
approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and 
circulated to the Board prior to issue. The Group also has 
internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised 
release of information.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
10 March 2016 GOVERNANCE
54
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Statement
Dear Shareholders
As the new Chair of Cineworld’s Remuneration Committee 
(the “Committee”), I am pleased to present our Remuneration 
Report for 2015, for which we will be seeking your approval 
at our Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in May 2016. 
I would like to thank out-going Chairman, Peter Williams, for 
his contribution during the first part of the year, together with 
David Maloney, who also left the Committee in May. To fill the 
two places, I was pleased to welcome Rick Senat and Julie 
Southern to the team. Rick, our Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Nomination Committee, and Julie, Chair 
of the Audit Committee, both joined the Committee in May.
Activities over the Year 
Looking back, it has been another busy period, in many 
ways linked to the wider integration process of the business 
following the Company’s combination with Cinema City in 
2014. As part of our role, we seek to manage remuneration 
and the Group’s incentive schemes with the overarching aim of 
promoting the strategic objectives of the Group. The goal is to 
appropriately incentivise and motivate our people to reach the 
targets set, so as to maximise sustainable shareholder return. 
Part of our work in the year has therefore been focused on 
extending our share schemes to teams across the expanded 
Group, to help ensure that this goal is met.
In addition, while we recognise that our Executive Directors 
have a significant interest in the shares of the Company, 
already ensuring a strong alignment with the interests of 
shareholders, we have continued to give careful consideration 
to the setting of their personal objectives, which account 
for 20% of the annual bonus. This is again with the aim of 
motivating our Executive team suitably, and creating the 
essential tie between our remuneration policy and the 
implementation of Group strategy. 
Also during the year, the Committee was involved in 
determining the leaving arrangements of Philip Bowcock, 
who was Chief Financial Officer until 9 June. Cognisant of all 
issues involved and, following careful review, we were satisfied 
with the final arrangements which were reported at the time, 
more details of which are set out on page 60.
Shareholder Views and Review of Policy
A key factor which guides the Committee’s decision-making 
is the feedback received from shareholders. It is pleasing that, 
historically, the Committee has received shareholder support 
for its actions, and I am grateful to our shareholders for this. 
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders strongly supported the 
approval of our implementation report for 2014. This positive 
vote, together with feedback from shareholders during the 
consultation undertaken during Peter Williams’ chairmanship, 
led us to decide that no major changes to our Remuneration 
Policy (“Policy”) were necessary this year. 
As with last year, we have continued to apply “malus” and 
“clawback” to our annual bonus and long term incentive plan 
(“LTIP”) in 2015. The Committee has also started the process 
of developing a new LTIP, to replace the current plan, which 
expires in 2017. 
The Policy was approved at the AGM in 2014. As part of 
taking on the role of Committee Chair, I offered to meet with 
our major shareholders in relation to our Policy. I am keen to 
continue and expand this engagement in the coming year. 
Our updated Policy will be put to shareholders for approval 
at the 2017 AGM. 
2015 Performance and Remuneration
The Group delivered a successful year of trading in 2015 with 
total revenue increasing 13.9% to £705.8m (2014: £619.4m), 
and EBITDA up 22.7% at £155.3m (2014: £126.6m). On a 52 
week pro-forma basis, Group revenue has grown by 12.4% and 
EBITDA by 18.5%. This performance enabled a 29.6% increase 
in the full year dividend per share. The decisions in relation to 
executive remuneration outcomes made by the Committee 
were taken in the context of this performance. 
Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors, which are based 
on a matrix of Group EBITDA performance against budget, 
and the achievement of stretching individual objectives, paid 
out at the level of 86.6%, 86.6% and 79.7% of base salary for 
the CEO, Deputy CEO and CFO, respectively (equivalent to 
the same percentages of maximum opportunity). As EPS 
performance targets for the PSP were reached over the three 
year period 2013–2015, there was 100% vesting of awards.
The Remuneration Report
Regarding the full report on our activities below, you 
will see that there are two other sections. The first part, 
the Annual Report on Remuneration, describes how the 
Committee implemented our Policy with regard to the 
remuneration of Directors in 2015. The second part, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy on pages 67 to 74, sets out our 
Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at 
the AGM in 2014 and, as I mention above, remains unchanged 
(please note that this section has been included for reference 
purposes and has been re-printed verbatim from the 2013 
Annual Report, which is the definitive version of our current 
Policy, as approved by shareholders. It was also included 
in our 2013 Remuneration Report, which is available on our 
website at www.cineworldplc.com/investors/reports-and-
presentations/yr-2013).
The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent 
in matters of remuneration and we hope that this report 
continues this approach and is easy to understand 
and informative.
Martina King
Chair of the Remuneration Committee GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 55
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report on Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee and its Role
At the end of the period, the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, Martina 
King, Julie Southern and Rick Senat, who are all considered 
to be independent. The Chair of the Committee was Martina 
King and the Secretary of the Committee was the Company 
Secretary. David Maloney and Peter Williams, two other 
Non-Executive Directors who were also considered to be 
independent, were members of the Committee until 26 May 
2015 when they stepped down as Directors after nine years 
of service. Julie Southern and Rick Senat were appointed to 
the Committee in their place. Martina King was a member 
throughout the 2015 financial period. 
The Remuneration Committee’s principal responsibilities are to:
• make recommendations to the Board for approval of the 
Group’s broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the 
Company’s Senior Vice Presidents (“SVPs”);
• determine the specific remuneration packages of the 
Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 
and the SVPs;
• approve the terms of the service agreements of the 
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the 
SVPs; and
• approve the design of, and determine the targets for, 
any performance-related pay schemes and long-term 
incentive plans.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee 
are available on the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.
com/about-us/corporate-governance). The terms are 
reviewed annually.
The Committee met four times during the period and details 
of the members’ attendance record is set out on page 43. 
In addition to its scheduled meetings, the Committee met 
a number of times ad-hoc to deal with specific issues.
A summary of the Committee’s agenda over the period 
is detailed below:
• reviewing the Chairman’s fees and the salaries of the 
Executive Directors;
• setting the salary of the Company Secretary and reviewing 
the salaries of the SVPs;
• deciding the targets for the annual bonus scheme;
• making awards under the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
and the Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”), including 
consideration of target calibration and award levels;
• reviewing and adjusting the definition of Earnings per 
Share (“EPS”) in the performance conditions attaching 
to PSP awards;
• reviewing the 2015 AGM voting figures and considering 
the views of shareholders;
• consideration of incentive arrangements for cinema managers;
• preparation of this report; and
• considering the remuneration arrangements across 
the Group.
Remuneration Committee Advisers
The Committee once again received advice from Towers 
Watson (now Willis Towers Watson following the merger 
with Willis in early 2016) during the year in relation to the 
Company’s Policy and its implementation in respect of the 
Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and SVPs. 
Willis Towers Watson was appointed by the Remuneration 
Committee in November 2008 following a selection process 
involving a number of remuneration consultants. Their terms 
of engagement are available on request from the Company 
Secretary. They attended two meetings during the year at the 
request of the Committee. Towers Watson’s fees for advice 
to the Committee were £37,159 (2014: £61,500). Willis Towers 
Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group 
and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct 
in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, Willis Towers Watson also provided advice 
to the Board on the salaries of staff below Board level and 
holiday arrangements. Willis Towers Watson has no other 
connections with the Company, except as the actuary to 
the pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s 
operating company in Ireland. The Remuneration Committee 
is satisfied that the advice provided on executive remuneration 
is objective and independent and that no conflict of interest 
arises as a result of these other services.
The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman 
of the Company (Tony Bloom), the Chief Executive Officer 
(Mooky Greidinger), the Deputy Chief Executive Officer (Israel 
Greidinger), the Chief Financial Officer (Philip Bowcock until 9 
June 2015), the Head of Human Resources (Tara Rooney) and 
the Company Secretary (Richard Ray until 30 June 2015 and 
Fiona Smith thereafter), although they did not participate in 
discussions relating to the setting of their own remuneration. 
The Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive 
Officer and received recommendations from him in respect 
of changes to remuneration packages for the SVPs.
Board Changes in 2015
As set out above, David Maloney and Peter Williams, two 
independent Non-Executive Directors, stepped down as 
Directors on 26 May 2015, having completed nine years 
of service. On the same date, Julie Southern and Alicja 
Kornasiewicz were elected by shareholders as independent 
Non-Executive Directors. On 9 June 2015, it was announced 
that Philip Bowcock, the Chief Financial Officer, was stepping 
down from his position as a Director with immediate effect, 
and would leave the Group on 31 October 2015.
Details of all the current Executive Directors’ contracts, 
and the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment, 
are set out in the Policy on pages 72 to 74, except for Alicja 
Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern which are as follows:
Director
Date of 
appointment Notice period
Alicja Kornasiewicz 26 May 2015 1 month
Julie Southern 26 May 2015 1 month GOVERNANCE
56
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration for 2015
This section covers the reporting period from 2 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and provides details of the implementation 
of the Company’s Policy during the period. Those sections of the report which are subject to audit are marked as such. 
The Policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, is set out at the end of this report for reference purposes. Note that the 
Policy included in this report has been printed verbatim from the 2013 Annual Report. The definitive version of our current 
remuneration policy as approved by shareholders is included in our 2013 Remuneration Report, which is available on our 
website www.cineworldplc.com/investors/reports-and-presentations/yr-2013.
During the period, the Executive Directors’ remuneration comprised an annual salary, a performance-related bonus, 
a share-based long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions, and other benefits as explained below. 
Single Total Figure Table (audited information)
The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
Financial 
Year
Base salary 
and fees
(5)
(£000)
Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Executive 
Directors
Philip Bowcock
(4)
2015 375
(9)
20
(10)
248 4.5 535
(3)
15
(12)
550 75
(11)
1,273
2014 358 20 249 – 377
(7)
9
(7)
386 72 1,085
Mooky 
Greidinger
(4)
2015 550 77 476 – – – – 110 1,213
2014 459 66 349 – – – – 92 966
Israel Greidinger
(4)
2015 375 74 325 – – – – 75 849
2014 313 60 239 – – – – 63 675
Stephen Wiener
(4)
2015 – 1 – – 388
(3)
– 388 – 389
2014 122 12 85 – 462
(7)
5
(6)
467 25 711
Non–Executive 
Directors
Anthony Bloom 2015 175 – – – – – – – 175
2014 163 – – – – – – – 163
Martina King 2015 56 – – – – – – – 56
2014 48 – – – – – – – 48
Alicja 
Kornasiewicz
(8)
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
2014 – – – – – – – – –
David Maloney
(8)
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
2014 72 – – – – – – – 72
Scott Rosenblum 2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
(1)  See page 58 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors. 
(2)  Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures 
in this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3)  The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.58, being the average price for the last three months 
of the period (as PSP will not vest until 15 March 2016), and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the 
vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener will amount 
to £23,370 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to £32,279.
(4)  Philip Bowcock and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 October 2015 and 31 March 2014 respectively. Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger joined 
the Company on 27 February 2014.
(5)  Base salaries and fees were increased on 27 February 2014 following completion of the combination with Cinema City and since then have remained 
the same.
(6)  Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question. See page 55 of the 2014 Annual Report for details.
(7)  Details of the actual gains made are set out on page 64. The actual figures differ from those in the table above (reflecting the 2014 Annual Report figures) 
as an estimated value was used of £3.57 a share to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards/option had not been exercised at that time.
(8) Alicja Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern joined the Board and David Maloney and Peter Williams left on 26 May 2015.
(9) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ salary paid in lieu of notice amounting to £62,500.
(10) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes the cost of two months’ benefits paid in lieu of notice amounting to £3,066. 
(11) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice amounting to £12,500.
(12) The gain on the CSOP options vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.52, being the share price on the date of 
vesting, as at 10 March 2016 they had not been exercised. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 57
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial 
Year
Base salary 
and fees
(5)
(£000)
Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Arni Samuelsson 2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
Rick Senat 2015 55 – – – – – – – 55
2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
Julie Southern
(8)
2015 39 – – – – – – – 39
2014 – – – – – – – – –
Peter Williams
(8)
2015 24 – – – – – – – 24
2014 59 – – – – – – – 59
(1)  See page 58 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors. 
(2)  Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures 
in this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3)  The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.58, being the average price for the last three months 
of the period (as PSP will not vest until 15 March 2016), and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the 
vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener will amount 
to £23,370 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to £32,279.
(4)  Philip Bowcock and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 October 2015 and 31 March 2014 respectively. Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger joined 
the Company on 27 February 2014.
(5)  Base salaries and fees were increased on 27 February 2014 following completion of the combination with Cinema City and since then have remained 
the same.
(6)  Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question. See page 55 of the 2014 Annual Report for details.
(7)  Details of the actual gains made are set out on page 64. The actual figures differ from those in the table above (reflecting the 2014 Annual Report figures) 
as an estimated value was used of £3.57 a share to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards/option had not been exercised at that time.
(8) Alicja Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern joined the Board and David Maloney and Peter Williams left on 26 May 2015.
(9) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ salary paid in lieu of notice amounting to £62,500.
(10) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes the cost of two months’ benefits paid in lieu of notice amounting to £3,066. 
(11) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice amounting to £12,500.
(12) The gain on the CSOP options vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.52, being the share price on the date of 
vesting, as at 10 March 2016 they had not been exercised.
Base Salary (audited information)
The base salaries of the Executive Directors are usually reviewed on an annual basis. As described in the Policy, the Committee 
compares the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and employees with those for Directors and employees 
of similar seniority in companies whose activities are broadly comparable with the Group. It also takes into account the progress 
made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the Group.
Base salaries were revised in February 2014 on completion of the combination with Cinema City (“Combination”) and came 
into effect on its completion. The salary levels for the two newly appointed Executive Directors (CEO and Deputy CEO) and 
the increase for the CFO at that point reflected the significant change in size of the Group and its international nature following 
the Combination. The salaries of the Executive Directors were then not reviewed in July 2014 as has been the Committee’s 
normal practice.
In July 2015 it was agreed that the Executive Directors’ salaries would not be increased keeping them at the same level as when 
they were set in February 2014. Average salaries across the Group were increased 2.5%. 
Salary levels as at the end of the financial period were:
(£000)
Mooky Greidinger: £550 p.a.
(1)
Israel Greidinger: £375 p.a.
(1)
(1) Part of Mooky Greidinger’s and Israel Greidinger’s salaries are paid in Israel to enable social security and government healthcare deductions to be made.
Philip Bowcock was the Chief Financial Officer from the start of the period until 9 June 2015 during which time his annual salary 
was £375,000.
Pension (audited information)
Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan, or alternatively 
may receive a pension allowance in cash. The Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive Directors is 20% of 
salary. All the Executive Directors have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance 
of 20% of salary. GOVERNANCE
58
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Company pension contributions/allowances for the period were:
(£000)
Mooky Greidinger: £110 
Philip Bowcock: £75
(1)
Israel Greidinger: £75
(1) Philip Bowcock stepped down as a Director on 9 June 2015 and left the Group on 31 October 2015. This figure includes two months’ pensions allowance 
paid in lieu of notice.
Other Benefits (audited information)
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors comprised the provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, 
permanent health insurance, and private medical cover.
Benefit
Philip 
Bowcock
(1)
 
Israel
Greidinger
Mooky 
Greidinger
Car/car allowance £14,000 £14,000 £14,000
Private medical insurance £1,487 £Nil £Nil
Permanent health insurance £3,384 £3,390 £2,359
Life assurance £1.011 £16,172 £21,087
Disturbance allowance N/A £40,000 £40,000
(1) Philip Bowcock stepped down as a Director on 9 June 2015 and left the Group on 31 October 2015. These benefit figures include two months’ costs paid 
in lieu of notice and the extension of his private medical insurance for two months.
Israel Greidinger and Mooky Greidinger both received a Disturbance Allowance of £40,000 for the period as, under the terms 
of their employment contracts, they are required to spend a sufficient and proportionate amount of time at the Company’s head 
office in London. 
Annual Bonus (audited information)
As described in the Policy, the annual bonus for the year was determined by a matrix of EBITDA compared to budget, and the 
achievement of specified individual objectives. The choice of these measures reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive 
compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant 
individual can directly influence. The weighting between the Group’s financial performance and personal performance was 
80%:20%. The Committee retains the absolute discretion to apply ‘malus’ by reducing or withholding annual bonus payments 
from the formulaic outcome based on EBITDA performance (for example, in the event of misconduct or misstatement of 
financial results).
The performance of the Company during the year included EBITDA of £155.3m representing 105% of budgeted EBITDA. 
The individual performance element included objectives focused on continuing to drive growth through successful new cinema 
openings, customer experience, and the development of teams across the business. The Committee judged the individual 
objectives have been achieved at the top level out of five for the CEO and Deputy CEO and the middle level for the CFO.
Philip Bowcock left the Company’s employment on 31 October 2015 and so was only eligible for a bonus for the period up to 
this date.
The table below shows the actual performance achieved during the year and the associated bonus outcomes for the 
Executive Directors.
EBITDA performance
Individual 
objective 
performance
Threshold bonus 
opportunity
(£000)
Maximum bonus 
opportunity
(£000)
Bonus paid (% of 
maximum)
Bonus paid (% of 
base salary)
Bonus paid 
(£000)
Mooky Greidinger 105% of budgeted
EBITDA achieved
Above and
 Beyond
98.5 550 86.6 86.6 476
Israel Greidinger 105% of budgeted 
EBITDA achieved
Above and
 Beyond
67.1 375 86.6 86.6 325
Philip Bowcock 105% of budgeted 
EBITDA achieved
Achieved 56.0 313 79.7 79.7 248 GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 59
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) (audited information)
(a) Adjustment to the Definition of EPS for PSP Awards
As a consequence of the combination with Cinema City in February 2014, the definition of Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) as used in 
PSP awards, was reviewed by the Committee and updated so as to ensure that performance conditions continued to operate as 
intended, and in a fair and appropriate manner. It was agreed that for all past PSP awards which had yet to vest and for those to 
be made in 2015, in calculating the EPS figure for any year, share-based payments would not be added back and the prevailing 
tax charge should be used. The Committee was satisfied that the impact of such changes would not be substantial. The same 
change would also be applied to awards made under the Company Share Option Plan. 
(b) Awards Vesting Following the End of the Performance Period Ending in December 2015
Awards under the PSP made in March 2013 are due to vest on 15 March 2016. The performance condition applicable to these 
awards is summarised below:
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than UK RPI plus 3.0% p.a. Nil
UK RPI plus 3.0% p.a. 30%
UK RPI plus 8.0% p.a. 100%
Between UK RPI plus 3.0% and UK RPI plus 8.0% p.a. Straight-line basis
The adjusted diluted EPS figure for the year represented compound average annual growth of 21% on a pro-forma basis, 
compared to the base year, with the result that the level of vesting for this award was 100%. The number and value of shares 
that will vest to each of the Executive Directors is set out on pages 63 to 65 of this report.
(c) Awards Made in the Year
Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in April 2015. The vesting of these awards will be based on 
Cineworld’s three-year EPS growth performance, as summarised in the table below. Following the combination with Cinema 
City, the Committee discussed the performance condition at some length and decided for awards in June 2014 to increase 
significantly the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting from those used for previous awards, and to express targets as 
absolute growth figures given the significantly increased international nature of the Group following the Combination, making 
UK RPI a less directly relevant factor. The same approach was taken in 2015. However, to reflect the prevailing circumstances 
and expectations the thresholds for minimum and maximum vesting were slightly reduced.
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 8% p.a. Nil
8% p.a. 30%
16% p.a. 100%
Between 8% and 16% p.a. Straight-line basis
In the past, total shareholder return has been considered as an alternative or additional performance measure, but difficulties 
in identifying appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance 
measure. The Remuneration Committee reviews the operation of the PSP each year and the performance conditions for each 
grant to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing internal and external expectations.
Philip Bowcock had a proportional part of his PSP award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the 
Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”) in prior years, however, not in 2015. The CSOP options were in all cases 
subject to performance conditions identical to those applicable to awards under the PSP and this remains the case. There have 
not been, and were not in 2015, similar substitutions in respect of the other Executive Directors.
The number and value of share options under the PSP and CSOP which were awarded to the Executive Directors and vested 
during the period are set out on pages 63 to 65 of this report.  GOVERNANCE
60
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees (audited information)
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed following completion of the combination with Cinema City in February 
2014 in light of the significant increase in the size and complexity of the Group. The adjusted fee levels were set in order to be 
comparable with equivalent fees in companies of broadly similar size and complexity. The fees were not increased during 2015.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance-related payments, nor do they 
receive any pension entitlement or other benefits apart from expenses in relation to travel costs to attend Cineworld Board 
meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
Position held
Fees as at 2 January 2015 and  
31 December 2015
Chairman £175,000 p.a.
Senior Independent Director £10,000 p.a.
Non-Executive Director £50,000 p.a.
(2)
Audit Committee Chair £15,000 p.a.
(1)
Remuneration Committee Chair £10,000 p.a.
Nomination Committee Chair £5,000 p.a.
Committee Member Nil
(1) The fee for Audit Committee Chair was increased to £20,000 p.a. with effect from 1 January 2016.
(2) Base fee.
Loss of Office Payments (audited information)
On 9 June 2015 Cineworld agreed with Philip Bowcock that his employment would end on 31 October 2015 (the “Termination Date”), 
but he would not be required to attend the office unless specifically requested to do so. During that time he continued to receive 
salary and benefits in accordance with his service contract and, following the Termination Date, he received an amount equal to two 
months’ salary and benefits (excluding private health cover) in lieu of his remaining notice period totalling £78,000
(1)
. The Company 
agreed to extend his private health cover until 8 June 2016, which would cease if Philip obtains alternative employment providing 
such cover. In line with arrangements, he received a time pro-rated bonus for 2015 of £248,000. Details of the bonus are set out on 
page 58. For the purposes of awards under the PSP, the Committee determined that he was a ‘good leaver’ given his contribution 
to the Group, and these would therefore vest on the normal vesting dates, subject to the satisfaction of applicable performance 
targets, on a time pro-rated basis and adjusted for the value of his CSOP awards. His awards under the CSOP vested and became 
exercisable from 31 October 2015 on a time pro-rated basis. Further details are set out on page 65. The Company also paid £8,500 
plus VAT towards the costs of Philip’s legal fees incurred in connection with his cessation of employment. Details of Philip’s leaving 
arrangements were disclosed at the time of his departure on the Company’s website.
(1) Payments in lieu of notice: salary £62,500, car allowance £2,333, pension £12,500, permanent health insurance £564, life assurance £169. 
Payments to Past Directors
Steve Wiener, a past Director, who left the Company on 31 March 2014, exercised a PSP award which vested during the year. In 
accordance with the Company’s Policy, the award had been reduced on a time apportioned basis reflecting the period actually 
worked, vested on its original vesting date, and remained subject to the requisite performance condition. He was also provided 
with private health cover for himself and his wife throughout the period and it will continue until 31 March 2017. Further details 
of the cost are set out on page 58. Other than this, and the payments to Philip Bowcock as described above, there were no 
payments to past Directors during the financial year.
External Appointments
Mooky and Israel Greidinger are both Non-Executive Directors of Global City Holdings N.V., a party connected to them, 
which is interested in 29% of the issued share capital of Cineworld Group plc, and directors of Israel Theatres Limited. 
In relation to these roles, they did not receive any fees.  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 61
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Shareholdings at 31 December 2015 (audited information)
Ordinary Shares
Share options
subject to
performance
conditions
(1)
Share options 
subject to 
performance
conditions
(2)
Share options 
not subject to 
performance
conditions
(3)
Executive Directors
Israel Greidinger 76,626,344
(4)
279,204 – –
Mooky Greidinger 76,626,344
(4)
410,684 – –
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony Bloom 2,208,006
(5)
– – –
Martina King 2,563 – – –
Alicja Kornasiewicz – – – –
Scott Rosenblum 10,377 – – –
Arni Samuelsson – – – –
Rick Senat 53,874 – – –
Julie Southern – – – –
(1) Relates to unvested awards under the PSP.
(2) Relates to CSOP options with identical performance conditions to PSP awards and made at the same time.
(3) Relates to share options held under the Sharesave Scheme.
(4)  Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”), a connected party of both Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger. Israel Greidinger transferred 
his entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015, following which he ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary 
shares in the Company.
(5) Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretional trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2015 and 10 March 2016, including 
any interests in shares and share options provisionally granted under the PSP and CSOP, are presented above. 
As described in the policy table on page 71, each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, a holding in 
shares equal to 100% of their base salary. For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares will count towards 
the holding.
As at 31 December 2015, Mooky Greidinger met this shareholding requirement through his interest in Global City Holdings N.V. 
(“GCH”). Israel Greidinger transferred his entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and, 
following the transfer, ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company. Therefore, under Cineworld’s share 
ownership guidelines, he will be expected to retain 50% of any shares which he acquires under the PSP or on the exercise of other 
options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as he has built up such a holding, 
so long as, together with his other connected parties, it does not result in a collective holding of 30% or more of the issued share 
capital of the Company.  GOVERNANCE
62
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Seven-Year Total Shareholder Return Performance and CEO Pay
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel 
and Leisure indices over the past seven financial years. The Remuneration Committee believes these to be the most appropriate 
comparators as Cineworld is a member of both indices.
Cineworld FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure FTSE 250
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
400
300
200
100
0
600
500
900
800
700
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2015 Dec 2014
Financial year
CEO single
figure of total
remuneration
(£000)
(1)
Bonus as 
proportion 
of maximum 
opportunity
LTI 
vesting as 
proportion 
of maximum 
opportunity
2015 £1,213 87% –
(2)
2014 £1,440 76% 100%
2013 £1,326 41% 81%
2012 £1,258 60% 99%
2011 £1,252 68% 100%
2010 £1,212 82% 100%
2009 £858 85% –
(1) Up to 2013 these figures solely relate to Stephen Wiener who was CEO up to and including 27 February 2014. For 2014, it represents a combination of two 
months of Stephen Wiener and ten months of Mooky Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during the period.
(2) Mooky Greidinger, CEO, did not have an LTI which vested in the year. For those who did, the proportion was 100%.
Percentage Increase in CEO remuneration
The percentage changes in the value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus between 2014 and 2015 for the CEO and 
employees generally are set out in the table below: 
CEO
(1)
Employees
generally
(2)
Salary 1.8% 2.5%
Non-pension benefits 4.1% 16.8%
Annual bonus 17.3% 28.3%
(1) For 2014, the figures used to calculate the percentages represent a combination of two months of Stephen Wiener who was CEO (up to and including 
27 February 2014) and ten months of Mooky Greidinger, as they both held the office of CEO during the period. For 2015 these figures related solely 
to Mooky Greidinger. Mooky Greidinger’s salary has not been increased since his appointment as CEO on 27 February 2014.
(2) The figures reflect increases for UK based monthly salaried employees excluding the senior management group. This group has been selected as the 
UK is the country in which the CEO is based. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 63
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Relative Importance of Pay Spend
The table below shows figures for people costs, shareholder dividends and a number of other significant distributions of turnover 
that the Committee considers to be relevant in order to provide context to the relevant importance of pay spend.
2015 2014
(1)
% change
Staff and Employee Costs £98.8m £91.7m 8%
Of which, Directors’ remuneration costs £4.2m £3.9m 8%
Corporation tax paid £10.4m £12.1m -14%
Dividends paid £39.0m £26.9m 45%
Retained earnings £96.3m £34.7m 178%
(1) Includes cinema business of Cinema City Holdings B.V for ten months.
Shareholder Voting Results from 2015 AGM
At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on 26 May 2015, the resolution to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report was approved on a show of hands. The proxy vote was as set out below. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy was not put to the vote as it was approved at the AGM held on 8 May 2014.
Number of
votes
% of votes 
cast
For 210,217,071 97.29%
Discretionary 15,367 0.01%
Against 5,841,421 2.70%
Total votes cast 216,073,859 100%
Votes withheld
(1)
144,205 –
(1) A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
Share and Share Option Awards Granted and Vesting During the Year (audited information)
Awards or grants were made under the three Share and Share Options Schemes as follows:
PSP: Awards consisting of nil cost options over shares were granted to all three Executive Directors equivalent in value to 150% 
of their base salary on 23 April 2015 which will become exercisable after three years. Details of the awards are set out below. 
Awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance conditions specified on page 59.
CSOP: A number of recipients of a PSP had a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC approved share option 
granted under the CSOP. There was no such substitution in respect of the PSP awards granted to any of the Executive Directors 
during the year.
Sharesave: A further invitation was made to all UK employees to participate in the Sharesave Scheme in April 2015. Of the Executive 
Directors, only Philip Bowcock participated and details are set out below.
Awards granted or vesting during the year: GOVERNANCE
64
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
(a) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
Details of awards made and vesting during the period are:
Name of Director
At 
2 January 
2015
Awarded 
during year
Vested 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 
31 December
2015
Exercise
Price
Market 
value at 
date of
exercise
(3)
Exercise
period
(2)
Gain
(4)
Current Directors
Israel Greidinger – 117,065
(1)
– – – 117,065 £Nil – 23/05/18–
22/11/18
–
Mooky Greidinger – 171,696
(1)
– – – 171,696 £Nil – 23/05/18–
22/11/18
–
Past Directors
Philip Bowcock – 117,065
(1)
– – 96,664
(8)
20,041 £Nil – 23/05/18–
22/11/18
–
97,177
(5)
– 97,177 97,177
(7)
– – £Nil £4.7319 26/03/15–
25/09/15
£490,132
Stephen Wiener 119,038
(5)(6)
– 119,038 119,038
(7)
– – £Nil £4.7293 26/03/15–
25/09/15
£600,078
(1) Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 22 April 2015, the day before grant, was £4.805. The face value of the awards to Philip Bowcock, 
Israel Greidinger and Mooky Greidinger were £562,500, £562,500 and £825,500 respectively. All three awards were granted as nil cost options.
(2) Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which for the awards made in 2015 are set on page 59).
(3) This was the price per share received in respect of those shares which were sold.
(4) The gain has been calculated using the realised share price on the date of exercising and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that 
would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payments 
amounted to £37,116 for Stephen Wiener and £30,300 for Philip Bowcock.
(5) The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
(6) The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Stephen Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period had not been completed 
in full. 
(7) The performance condition attaching to the grants was satisfied in full.
(8) The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 so the performance period will not be completed in full.
Details of the awards vesting in March 2016:
Name of Director
Date 
awarded
Number 
awarded
Vesting 
date
Number 
vesting
Number 
lapsing
Exercise 
price
Exercise 
period
Past Directors
Philip Bowcock 15/03/13 92,699
(1)
15/03/16 90,176 12,775
(2)
£Nil 15/03/16–
14/09/16
Stephen Wiener 15/03/13 169,104
(1)
15/03/16 65,287 122,519
(2)
£Nil 15/03/16–
14/09/16
(1) The entitlement was subsequently adjusted for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
(2) The performance condition has been satisfied in full so there was no reduction in the shares vesting, but there is a reduction to take account of the fact that 
Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 and Steve Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period in each case had not been completed in full.  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 65
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(b) Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan
No Director was granted an option during the period. Details of options vesting during the period are:
Name of Director
At
2 January 
2015
Awarded 
during 
year
Vested 
during 
year
Lapsed 
during 
year
Exercised 
during 
year
At 31 
December 
2015
Exercise
price
 
Market 
value at 
date of 
exercise
(8)
 Earliest 
date of
exercise
(3)
Expiry date Gain
Past Directors
Philip Bowcock 5,213
(1)(4)
– 5,213 – 5,213 – £1.9179
(2)
£5.030 26/03/13 30/04/16
(6)
£16,224
3,983
(1)(4)
– 3,776 207
(5)
– 3,776 £2.5099
(2)
–
(9)
01/11/15
(7)
30/04/16
(7)
–
(9)
2,891
(1)
– 1,778 1,113
(5)
– 1,778 £3.459
(2)
–
(9)
01/11/15
(7)
30/04/16
(7)
–
(9)
(1) HMRC approved share options.
(2) Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant adjusted for the rights issue in February 2014 if applicable. 
(3) Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set out on page 88).
(4) The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
(5) The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 so the performance period had not been completed 
in full. However, the Remuneration Committee decided that the performance conditions attaching to the grants were or would be treated as fully satisfied 
which resulted in 100% and 100% vesting in the two respective grants.
(6) Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 and in accordance with the rules of the plan had six months from his leaving date to exercise.
(7) Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 and in accordance with the rules of the plan had six months from his leaving date to exercise. Ordinarily the period 
for exercise would have been 15.03.16 – 14.03.23 and 06.06.17 – 05.06.24 respectively.
(8) The gain has been calculated using the share price realised on the date of exercise being £5.030. 
(9) These CSOP options vested on 31 October 2015 but, as at 10 March, they had not been exercised. The share price on vesting was £5.52. 
Details of the awards vesting in March 2016:
No Director, past or present, holds a CSOP option which will vest in 2016 financial year.
(c) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
An invitation was issued during the period to all eligible staff including Executive Directors to participate in the Sharesave Scheme 
in April 2015. Details of the options vesting, granted, and lapsing during the period are set out below:
Name of Director
At 
2 January 
2015
Awarded 
during 
year
Vested 
during
year
Lapsed 
during 
year
Exercised 
during
year
At 31 
December 
2015
Exercise
price
Market 
Value at 
date of
exercise
(4)
Earliest 
date of
exercise
(1)
Expiry
date Gain
Past Directors
Philip Bowcock 5,810
(1)(3)
– 5,810 – 5,810 – £1.5487
(2)
£5.135 01/06/15 30/11/15 £20,829
4,687
(1)
– 4,687
(5)
– £3.84
(6)
– 01/07/18 31/12/18 –
(1) Subject to regular monthly savings being made with the Yorkshire Building Society.
(2) Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the exercise price was reduced from £1.72.
(3) Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the number of shares was increased from 5,232.
(4) The gain has been calculated using the mid-market closing share price on 4 June 2015, the date the shares were issued, as they were retained 
by Philip Bowcock and not sold. 
(5) Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015.
(6) The exercise price represents the average mid-market closing share price for the three business days prior to the invitation date, with a 20% 
discount applied.
No Sharesave option held by a Director is due to vest in the 2016 financial year.
Implementation of Policy in 2016
For the 2016 financial period, the salaries and other benefits of the Executive Directors have been reviewed in the usual manner. 
Salary levels for the Executive Directors will be increased by 2.5% from 1 July 2016. Average increases for staff are anticipated 
to be in the range of 2.5% to 3%.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of salary for the Executive Directors. Bonus payments in relation 
to 2016 will be subject to Committee discretion to apply ‘malus’ as described on page 58. Following payment, the Committee 
will retain the discretion to ‘claw back’ bonuses in the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial results. GOVERNANCE
66
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The face value of awards under the PSP will be 150% of salary. The Committee is considering the calibration of EPS growth 
targets applicable to PSP awards to be made in 2016, taking into account internal and external performance expectations. 
The calibration of these targets has not been finalised at the date of this Annual Report. However, the proportion of an award 
vesting for threshold performance will remain at 30%, with 100% vesting for stretch performance. Given the significantly 
increased international nature of the Group following the combination with Cinema City, the Committee continues to believe 
that UK RPI is a less directly relevant factor and will therefore express the targets as absolute growth levels.
For PSP awards from 2016, in addition to the EPS performance condition, the Committee, in its absolute discretion, will need to 
be satisfied that an award holder has performed their duties at a satisfactory level over the three years from date of grant in order 
for awards to vest. The Committee therefore will retain the absolute discretion to apply ‘malus’ to unvested awards, by reducing 
or withholding vesting. Following vesting, the Committee will also retain the discretion to claw back PSP shares in the case 
of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
Incorporation by Reference
The sections “The Remuneration Committee and its Role” and “Remuneration Committee Advisers” also form part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement, and are incorporated into that statement by reference. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 67
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Set out below in full is the Policy Report which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 8 May 2014. The Policy Report 
has been included for reference purposes and has been printed verbatim from the 2013 Annual Report. The information 
contained in it is therefore accurate as at 6 March 2014. The Committee’s intention is to put its Policy to a binding vote 
every three years, unless there are any changes requiring shareholder approval.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
Executive Directors
Policy Effective Date
This section describes the Committee’s policy on the 
remuneration of Directors. The policy will be put to 
shareholders for approval at our AGM in May 2014 and will 
come into effect from the date of the AGM. The Committee 
intends that this policy will remain in effect for a period of 
three years unless there are changes requiring shareholder 
approval. Following approval at the AGM, remuneration 
payments and payment for loss of office to Directors can only 
be made if they are consistent with this policy or otherwise 
approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
Current Policy on Remuneration 
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is that 
Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration 
for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience. 
Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group 
to attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are 
remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they are 
motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance 
in line with the best interests of shareholders. They are also 
structured with due regard of risk so no Director is encouraged 
to take inappropriate risks because of the level of potential 
variable rewards.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration 
appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee 
considers benchmark remuneration data for selected 
comparable companies and seeks to ensure that an 
appropriately significant proportion of potential pay 
is performance related and that total pay opportunity 
is consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay 
for superior performance.
The policy of the Committee is to set performance 
conditions for annual bonuses and long-term incentives 
which are appropriately stretching but fair given the 
environment in which the Group operates and internal 
and external expectations.
While the Board’s normal practice is to operate within 
the above parameters, it will take account of individual 
circumstances and tailor remuneration packages 
accordingly. In cases of material variance, it would seek 
to take account of major shareholders’ views.
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an 
annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based 
long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and 
other benefits as explained below.
The table summarises the policy for each element of pay:
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Basic Salary
To provide a core level of 
remuneration to enable the 
Company to attract and retain 
skilled, high-calibre executives 
to deliver its strategy.
Salaries may be adjusted and 
any increase will ordinarily be 
(in percentage terms) in line 
with those across the Group.
Percentage increases beyond 
those granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded 
in certain circumstances such 
as where there is a change 
in responsibility, progression 
in the role, experience or a 
significant increase in the 
scale of the role and/or size, 
value and/or complexity 
of the Group.
Executive Directors’ salary levels are agreed on joining and 
thereafter reviewed annually on 1 July each year
(1)
.
The Committee considers both the nature and the status 
of the Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, 
experience and performance of each Executive Director. 
The Committee compares the Group’s remuneration 
packages for its Executive Directors and employees with 
those for Directors and employees of similar seniority 
in companies whose activities are comparable with the 
Group. The Committee also takes into account the progress 
made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary 
increases across the rest of the Group (which for 2013 
were generally around 3%)
(2)
.
(1) Given the new arrangements put in place for Executive Directors in relation to the combination with Cinema City International, no salary increases 
will be made in July 2014.
(2) Stephen Wiener has a contractual right to an annual salary increase in line with RPI, which was in place prior to the Company’s listing in 2007. 
Going forward, and in respect of new appointments, it is the Committee’s policy not to agree any guaranteed minimum increases. GOVERNANCE
68
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Pension
To provide market-
competitive retirement 
benefits.
Monthly employer 
contribution of 20% of basic 
salary or in the form of 
a pension allowance.
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited 
to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is 
a money purchase plan. The Company contribution for 
Executive Directors is 20% of base salary. Bonuses are 
not pensionable.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group 
scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance 
equivalent to 20% of base salary.
The Company’s pension contribution may be conditional 
on the Executive Director contributing up to 5% of his 
base salary to the pension scheme. Executives may make 
pension contributions under “salary sacrifice” arrangement. 
Savings as a result of such an arrangement may be shared 
with the Executive Director in the form of an additional 
pension contribution.
Other Benefits
To provide market-
competitive benefits and 
support the health and safety 
of individuals.
The cost to the Group of 
providing such benefits will 
vary from year to year in 
accordance with the cost 
of insuring such benefits.
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include the 
provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, 
life insurance, permanent health insurance, private medical 
cover and, for the Chief Executive Officer only, a driver.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of 
Directors to ensure that overall packages are attractive and 
additional benefits may be introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all 
employees (including Directors) and the intention 
is to expand it over a period of time. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 69
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Annual Bonus
To incentivise the annual 
delivery of financial and 
operational targets.
Maximum opportunity for 
Executive Directors of 100% 
of salary.
The level of bonus is based primarily on overall Group 
performance in meeting its primary financial objectives 
in EBITDA for the financial period. The level of bonus is 
determined by a matrix of budgeted EBITDA and personal 
performance levels. The weighting of measures is circa 80% 
budgeted EBITDA and 20% personal performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the budget is challenging 
and so there is a clear link between the short-term Group 
performance and payout under the arrangements.
• No bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% 
(2012: 95%) of budgeted EBITDA is not achieved. At this 
level (assuming “good” performance against individual 
objectives), a bonus of 30% of maximum opportunity 
would be payable.
• The maximum bonus level is only payable if both 110% of 
budgeted EBITDA and exceptional performance against 
individual objectives was achieved.
The personal element is determined by the achievement 
of individual strategic objectives, which vary year from year 
to ensure that objectives are aligned with the business plan. 
Individual objectives vary from year to year but our policy is 
to set goals which relate to the achievement of the business 
strategy. Examples include ensuring a strong pipeline of 
new cinema sites and maintaining good financial controls.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committee’s belief 
that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the 
overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the 
business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed 
annually to ensure alignment to strategy.
Bonuses are paid in cash following the approval of the 
Group Annual Report. 
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, 
he will be paid on the usual payment date a proportion 
of any bonus entitlement, which would have otherwise 
accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus period which 
was actually worked. GOVERNANCE
70
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
The Cineworld Group 
Performance Share 
Plan (“PSP”)
To encourage sustainable 
profitability over a period of 
time aligned to the overall 
objective of achieving 
sustainable growth.
The maximum award to an 
individual in any year under 
the plan rules is 200% of 
base salary. 
However, the Remuneration 
Committee does not currently 
intend that awards to Executive 
Directors should exceed 150% 
of their base salary
(3)
.
If it is considering changing 
this approach, it will consult 
with key shareholders before 
doing so.
Annual awards of conditional shares or nil-cost options are 
made to Executive Directors and members of the Senior 
Management Team at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards may vest after three years subject to continuing 
employment and the achievement of stretching three-year 
EPS growth performance conditions which are aligned with 
the Group’s strategy of delivering long-term growth.
The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth 
targets on an annual basis for each award to ensure they 
are sufficiently stretching in light of both internal and 
external performance expectations. Threshold performance 
is generally intended to align to the performance of the 
relevant market and/or our competitors’ level. If the stretch 
performance level is achieved, we would expect to have 
significantly out-performed the relevant market and for 
term and against our competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 30% of an award will 
vest. At the stretch level of performance, 100% of an award 
will vest. Between these levels, vesting will be determined 
on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares 
or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have 
been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend 
record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant in 
the PSP may have a proportional part of their PSP award 
replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted 
under the Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan 
(“CSOP”), up to the maximum value of options permitted 
by legislation (currently £30,000). Such awards are subject 
to identical performance vesting conditions as the PSP 
shares they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied 
in exceptional circumstances following the grant of an 
award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so 
as to make their achievement any more or less difficult to 
satisfy. Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate 
events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holder’s position, 
but not so as to enhance it.
It is the Committee’s intention to settle awards in shares, 
but the plan rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if 
required. Where vesting of any award granted would result 
in the Greidinger family (the family of the new CEO and 
COO) controlling shares carrying 30% or more of the voting 
rights of the Company then the Committee may instead 
make a cash payment equal to the market value of the 
shares comprised in the vested award.
(3) As a result of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City International N.V. and in recognition of the increased size and international 
complexity of the combined business, the Committee has determined to increase the annual award level under the PSP for Executive Directors from 
100% to 150% of salary. Major shareholders have been consulted in relation to the adjustment of PSP award levels. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 71
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
The Cineworld Group 
Sharesave Scheme
To enable Group employees 
to become Cineworld 
shareholders, encouraging 
alignment and rewarding 
for Group performance.
The maximum saving level 
is £250 a month over a three-
year term.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the 
Sharesave Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customs 
approved scheme open to all employees of nominated 
Group companies.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to 
acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% 
of the market value at grant if they agree to enter into a 
savings contract for a three-year period. Consistent with 
the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, 
such as rights issues, to maintain a holder’s position, 
but not so as to enhance it.
Share Ownership Guidelines
To provide alignment 
between Executive Directors 
and shareholders.
N/A Each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period 
of time, a holding in shares equal to 100% of their base salary.
In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive 
Directors are expected to retain 50% of any shares they 
acquire under the PSP or on the exercise of options, 
after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other 
deductions, until such time as they have built up such 
a holding. For the purposes of these guidelines, only 
beneficially owned shares will count towards the holding.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards
Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP 
described in the table above can be satisfied using new issue 
shares, shares held in treasury or shares purchased in the 
market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee 
Benefit Trust (the “Trust”), established by the Company on 
24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey.
If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed:
• In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any other executive share 
or option scheme established by the Company may not
 exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company from time to time.
• In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may 
be issued under the PSP and under any employees’ 
share or option scheme established by the Company 
may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company from time to time. 
Resulting Total Pay Levels Under Different Scenarios
The chart below illustrates how the potential future 
compensation of each of the Executive Directors may vary 
at different levels of performance and the percentage each 
element may form together with the possible total value. 
CEO COO CFO
Fixed Elements
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum
£2.0m
£1.5m
£2.5m
£0.5m
£0m
£1.0m
Short-Term Variable Element
£2,098,215
£510,162
£1,337,382
£723,215
Long-Term Variable Element
100%
100% 55% 35%
27%
26%
18%
39%
100% 53% 33%
28%
27%
19%
40%
54%
27%
35%
26%
19%
39%
£928,912
£1,447,662
£470,162
£888,912
£1,407,662 GOVERNANCE
72
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have 
been made:
• The base salary, bonus opportunity and PSP award levels 
are those for the Executive Directors following completion 
of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema 
City International N.V. as set out on page 58 of the 2013 
Annual Report.
• Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and 
other benefits.
• Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2013.
• For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout 
of 67% of maximum and threshold vesting (30%) for 
PSP have been made.
• No share price increase has been assumed.
Recruitment Remuneration Policy
New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on 
remuneration packages with the same structure and elements 
as described in the policy table above. On appointment, base 
salary level will be set taking into account a range of factors 
including market levels, experience, internal relativities and 
cost. Annual bonus opportunity will be no greater than 100% 
of salary and the normal maximum award under the PSP 
will be 150% of salary.
For external appointments, although we have no plans 
to offer additional benefits, cash and/or share-based 
elements on recruitment, the Committee reserves the 
right to do so when it considers this to be in the best 
interests of the Company and shareholders. Such payments 
will take account of remuneration relinquished when 
leaving the former employer and, to the extent possible, 
would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance 
requirements attaching to that remuneration. If it is 
necessary in the circumstances, the Committee reserves 
the right to offer a longer initial notice period than one 
year. In such a circumstance, this would reduce to a 
notice period of no greater than 12 months after the initial 
period. The Committee may agree that the Company will 
meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate or pay 
a disturbance allowance.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay 
out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment 
may continue.
Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment 
and the individual’s remuneration arrangements as soon as 
practicable following the appointment via an announcement 
to the regulatory news services and on our website.
Service Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts 
with Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of 
high-quality executives and to obtain protection from their 
sudden departure, whether or not to competitor companies. 
In addition, service contracts are an important element 
in maintaining protection for the Group’s business and 
its commercially sensitive information.
A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts is set out below:
Stephen Wiener
(1)
Philip Bowcock Moshe Greidinger
(2)
Israel Greidinger
(2)
Date of Contract 23 April 2007 16 November 2011 27 February 2014 27 February 2014
Notice Period
(3)
12 months 6 months 12 months 6 months
Remuneration • Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car 
and driver
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
• Base Salary
• Cash in lieu of 
pension contribution
• Car allowance
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
• Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or car 
allowance
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Disturbance 
allowance
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
• Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or car 
allowance
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Disturbance 
allowance
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
Termination Company has right to 
terminate on payment 
on pre-agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment 
on pre-agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment 
on pre-agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment 
on pre-agreed basis
Non-Competition During employment and 
for 12 months thereafter
During employment and 
for 6 months thereafter
During employment and 
for 12 months thereafter
During employment and 
for 6 months thereafter
(1) Stephen Wiener resigned as CEO and a Director on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N.V. 
on 27 February 2014.
(2) Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N.V. on 27 February 2014.
(3) The Group’s policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each year. 
In the case of Stephen Wiener, a minimum increase in line with RPI had to be made. GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 73
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Loss of Office Policy
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any 
payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation 
of any loss where possible. To allow the Company to 
terminate an Executive Director’s employment contract 
legally so it would not face a claim for wrongful termination 
(although a claim for unfair dismissal could still exist), 
its policy is to pre-agree arrangements which would apply 
on termination. Only the Company has the right to trigger 
such arrangements and it has complete discretion as to 
whether it does.
Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, 
in lieu of giving notice, terminate an Executive Director’s 
service contract by making a payment equivalent to 95% 
(in the case of Stephen Wiener) and 100% (in the case of 
the other Executive Directors) of base salary and contractual 
benefits for the notice period. In this event, the Executive 
Director would not be entitled to any bonus for the unworked 
portion of his notice period, but would be eligible for a pro 
rata bonus for the period up to the date of the termination 
of his contract.
Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, 
benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up 
until the date of the termination. Any bonus entitlement 
will be paid as normal on a pro-rated basis.
Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option 
Schemes vary:
A. Under the PSP:
An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving 
the employment of the Group unless the Remuneration 
Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines. 
Any such discretion would only be applied by the Committee 
to “good leavers” where it considers that continued 
participation is justified by reference to past performance to 
the date of leaving or because of the prevailing circumstances. 
In such cases, the award would become exercisable on the 
original vesting date on a reduced basis taking into account 
only that part of the three-year performance period which 
has elapsed and subject to the satisfaction of performance 
conditions unless the Remuneration Committee determines 
other arrangements are justified.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, 
may be exercised during the period of one month after 
which, to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse. 
Alternatively, with the agreement of the acquiring company, 
the participants may exchange their awards for equivalent 
options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its 
parent company.
B. Under the CSOP:
An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving 
the employment of the Group. However, if a participant 
leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement (as at or after reaching 
55 years under Part A of the CSOP) or any other reason 
as determined by the Remuneration Committee or if the 
company or business for which he works ceases to be part 
of the Group, then unless the Remuneration Committee 
in its absolute discretion otherwise determines, his option 
will become exercisable when he leaves on a reduced 
basis taking into account only that part of the three-year 
performance period which has elapsed. An option, to the 
extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the 
period of six months after which, to the extent unexercised, 
the option shall lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. Such options become exercisable for a limited 
period of time. Alternatively in the case of a takeover, with 
the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants 
may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire 
shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
C. Under the Sharesave Scheme:
An option granted may normally not be exercised until the 
option holder has completed their savings contract and then 
not more than six months thereafter. However, if a participant 
leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement (on reaching 60 years or 
any other contractual retirement age) or if the company or 
business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, 
the option will become exercisable. An option, to the extent 
it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period 
of six months (12 months in the case of death) after which, 
to the extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
and/or a winding-up of the Company, options may be 
exercised for a limited period of time. Alternatively in the 
case of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring 
company, the participants may exchange their options 
for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring 
company or its parent company. GOVERNANCE
74
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Non-Executive Directors
Letters of Appointment
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and their notice periods are as follows:
Director Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom (Chairman) 7 October 2004 1 month
Martina King 2 July 2010 1 month
David Maloney 22 May 2006 1 month
Thomas McGrath 16 May 2005 1 month
Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month
Peter Williams 22 May 2006 1 month
Scott Rosenblum
(1)
27 February 2014 1 month
Arni Samuelsson
(1)
27 February 2014 1 month
(1) Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N.V. on 27 February 2014.
By order of the Board
Martina King
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
10 March 2016
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do 
not have service contracts with the Company. The terms and 
conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors 
are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the 
provisions of the Articles of Association.
It is the Board’s policy that the appointment of each 
Non-Executive Director is terminable on a short notice 
unless their appointment is terminated by a resolution 
of the shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to 
be re-elected by shareholders in general meeting when 
it aims to ensure no notice is necessary.
The Company’s policy is that Non-Executive Directors 
receive a fixed fee for their services as members of the 
Board and its Committees. Non-Executive Directors 
do not participate in the Company’s share incentives or 
otherwise receive performance-related pay but may receive 
reimbursement for travel and incidental costs incurred 
in furtherance of Company business.
The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking 
into account appropriate advice (except in the case of 
the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee), in line with prevailing market 
conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with 
the necessary experience and ability to make a significant 
contribution to the Company’s affairs. No Director 
participates in discussions relating to the setting of his 
or her own remuneration. Fee levels are reviewed on 
an annual basis.
Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end 
of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro-rata 
to the date of cessation.
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere 
in the Company
When considering salary increases for the Executive Directors, 
the Committee takes into account average levels of increase 
awarded to employees generally. Salary increases will 
normally be broadly in line with those for other employees.
The Committee does not formally consult employees in 
relation to remuneration policy for the Executive Directors. 
However, the Company regularly carries out engagement 
surveys which enable employees to share their views 
with management.
Consideration of Shareholder Views in Developing Policy
The Committee is grateful that shareholders have 
been supportive of its policy in the past. As appropriate, 
the Committee will continue to engage and communicate 
with shareholders regarding Cineworld’s remuneration 
policy and take suitable action when required.
In the last year, the Committee considered feedback from 
some shareholders in relation to the setting of performance 
targets for PSP awards. For awards in 2013, it was decided 
to increase the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting 
from those used for previous awards and to express targets 
in excess of RPI.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 75
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Annual Report and the 
audited financial statements for the 52 week period ended 
31 December 2015. The comparative period is the 53 week 
period ended 1 January 2015.
Management Report 
This Directors’ Report, together with the Strategic Report on 
pages 1 to 34, form the Management Report for the purposes 
of rule 4.1.8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Information Contained Elsewhere in the Annual Report 
Information required to be part of this Directors’ Report 
and certain other information can be found elsewhere 
in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below, 
and is incorporated into this Report by reference: 
Information Location in Annual Report
Audit Tendering Page 52
Corporate Governance Statement Pages 39 to 53
Corporate Social Responsibility Pages 33 to 34
Directors’ Biographies Pages 36 to 38
Financial instruments:  
Information on the Group’s financial 
risk management objectives and 
policies, and its exposure to credit 
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and 
foreign currency risk
Note 21, Page 121
Going Concern Statement Page 40
Key Performance Indicators Pages 14 to 15
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Financial 
Statements
Page 80
Viability Statement Page 40
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements in these sections are forward looking 
and so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events, and depend upon circumstances that will occur in 
the future. Therefore results and developments can differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available 
at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward 
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should 
be construed as a profit forecast.
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the 52 week period ended 
31 December 2015 are presented under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law. However, the Company has elected to prepare 
its financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards, including the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework. The results for the period are set out in the 
Group Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on page 84. 
An interim dividend of 5p per share was paid on 2 October 
2015. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 
12.5p per share which, if approved by the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 7 July 2016 
to shareholders on the register on 10 June 2016.
Events Affecting the Company Since Year End
There have been no significant events affecting the Company 
since the end of the period.
Financial Risk Management 
The Board of Cineworld Group plc regularly reviews the 
financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated 
therewith. Full details are set out at Note 21 to the financial 
statements, and are incorporated into this Directors’ Report 
by reference.
Funding and Liquidity 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in 
the Financial Review on pages 29 to 32. In addition, Note 21 
to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity 
risk. Such sections are incorporated into this Directors’ Report 
by reference.
International Operations
At the financial year end, the Group had operations in the 
UK, Jersey, Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, 
Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 31 December 2015, the Group had been notified, pursuant 
to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following 
interests in the voting rights of the Company. Notifications 
confirming a party’s interest has gone below the threshold 
notification level have not been included:
Shareholder
Voting
 rights
% of total  
voting 
rights
(1)
Nature of holding
Global City Holdings N.V.
(2)
76,626,344 29.0 Direct
Mawer Investment Management Limited 21,140,961 7.98 Direct
BlackRock, Inc 17,626,511
(3)
6.64
(3)
Indirect
Aviva plc 10,698,450 4.06 Direct and Indirect
Royal London Asset Management Limited 10,596,114 3.99 Direct
(1) Percentages are stated as at the time of notification. The total number of voting rights at 31 December 2015 was 265,232,321.
(2) Global City Holdings N.V. is majority owned by the Greidinger Family and family trusts. Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V.(GCH), a connected 
person of both Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger. Israel Greidinger transferred his entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children 
on 6 September 2015.
(3) 1,345,761 (0.5%) of this figure represents qualifying financial instruments and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying 
financial instruments. GOVERNANCE
76
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Report continued
No notifications were received in the period from 1 January 
2016 up to 10 March 2016 (the last practicable date to include 
such notifications).
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”) is interested in aggregate 
in 29% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the 
Company. The Company and GCH entered into a relationship 
agreement dated 10 January 2014 to regulate the relationship 
between them. Under the relationship agreement, the 
parties acknowledge that the Group is capable of carrying 
on business independently, and that all arrangements 
between the Company and GCH will be on arm’s length 
terms. The restriction on the disposal of ordinary shares in the 
Company by GCH has now expired, but there is a requirement 
(where reasonably practical) to consult with and consider 
the reasonable views of the Chairman or Senior Independent 
Director of the Company prior to a disposal of ordinary 
shares in the Company.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed 
of ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary 
share capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. 
Details of the share capital, and changes in it over the period, 
are shown in Note 20 to the financial statements.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
Company reports and accounts, to attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and 
to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement 
of any prior approval of any transfers other than those which 
may be applicable from time to time under existing laws or 
regulation or if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued 
share capital held in certificated form has been served with 
a disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required 
information concerning interests in that share capital.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard 
to control of the Company. Except as set out in the Major 
Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above, there are 
no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary 
shares and the Company is not aware of any known 
agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer 
of voting rights attached to ordinary shares. No treasury 
shares are held by the Company and no shares are held 
by any trustee in connection with any Share Scheme 
operated by the Group.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association (“Articles”) set out 
the rules governing the appointment and replacement of 
Directors. In addition the Articles, together with English law, 
define the Board’s powers. Changes to the Articles must be 
approved by shareholders in accordance with the Articles 
themselves and legislation in force at the relevant time.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change 
of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early 
repayment of all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to 
compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a 
change in control; however, provisions in the Company’s share 
schemes may cause options or awards granted to employees 
to vest on a change of control.
Issue of New Shares and Authority to Purchase Shares
At the AGM held on 26 May 2015, shareholders gave authority 
for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value 
of £1,761,900 subject to certain conditions. This authority will 
expire at the 2016 AGM of the Company or on 25 August 2016, 
whichever is earlier.
Between 2 January 2015 and 31 December 2015, a total of 
1,371,656 shares were issued. Further details of the 1,371,656 
ordinary shares issued in the period in this respect are set 
out in Note 20 to the financial statements.
At the AGM held on 26 May 2015, shareholders gave authority 
for the purchase of up to 39,616,000 ordinary shares in the 
Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares 
have been acquired under this authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the 
AGM to renew both the Company’s authority to issue new 
shares and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares 
for cancellation or placing in treasury. Details of the proposed 
resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM (the “AGM 
circular”) dispatched to shareholders with the Annual Report 
and Accounts (or on notification of their availability).  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 77
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period 
had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the 
beginning and end of the year under review as set out above.
Under the Articles of Association (the “Articles”), one third 
of the Directors must retire by rotation at the AGM and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election each year. A Director 
(excluding as Chairman of the Board) must retire (and will 
be counted in the one third to retire) if he was last appointed 
or reappointed three years or more prior to the AGM or has 
served more than eight years as a Non-Executive Director. 
In addition any Director appointed during the year must stand 
for election as well. In accordance with best practice, however, 
all the Directors are retiring and are offering themselves for 
re-election this year at the AGM.
Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in 
November 2015, the Board is satisfied that each Director 
standing for re-election continues to show the necessary 
commitment and to be an effective member of the Board 
due to their skills, expertise and business acumen. 
Under the terms of the relationship agreement between 
the Company and GCH (described further in the Major 
Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above), GCH has 
the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director (but only 
if none of Mooky Greidinger, Israel Greidinger and Scott 
Rosenblum are on the Board) for so long as it holds at 
least 10% of the voting rights in the Company.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration, and information on their 
service contracts, are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 54 to 74.
Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company 
arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes are set 
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 66. No rights 
to subscribe for shares in or debentures of other Group 
companies were granted to any of the Directors or their 
immediate families, or exercised by them, during the financial 
period. None of the Directors had any disclosable interest 
in the shares of Group companies other than the Company 
and there have been no changes to Directors’ share interests 
between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
Conflicts of Interest
The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees 
fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest 
that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests 
of the Company. There is in place a formal system for the 
Board to consider authorising such conflicts whereby the 
Directors who have no interest in the matter decide whether 
to authorise the conflict. In deciding whether to authorise the 
conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the 
way which they consider would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and 
they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such 
authorisations. The Board believes that the arrangements for 
reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
Directors’ Interests in Contracts
The Group has a number of property lease agreements in 
place with Global City Holdings N.V. (and or its subsidiary 
undertakings) of which Mooky and Israel Greidinger are 
Non-Executive Directors. Further details of the amounts 
paid under these agreements can be found in Note 24 to 
the financial statements.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract 
of significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a 
party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, 
in their service contracts or letters of appointment described 
on pages 55 and 72 to 74 and in Note 24 to the financial 
statements, Related Parties. 
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnity
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers. 
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under 
which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors 
as permitted by law and by the Articles against liabilities 
they may incur in the execution of their duties as Directors 
of the Company. 
Directors’ Interests
Ordinary shares held directly
Ordinary shares held by companies in which a Director 
has a beneficial interest or is a connected party
Director 2 January 2015 31 December 2015 2 January 2015 31 December 2015
Anthony Bloom 2,158,006 2,208,006
(1)
Israel Greidinger 76,626,344 76,626,344
(2)
Mooky Greidinger 76,626,344 76,626,344
Martina King 2,563 2,563
Alicja Kornasiewicz – –
Scott Rosenblum 10,377 10,377
Arni Samuelsson – –
Rick Senat 26,937 53,874
Julie Southern – –
(1) Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey based discretional trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
(2) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V.(GCH), a connected person of both Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger. Israel Greidinger transferred his 
entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015, following which he ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary 
shares in the Company. GOVERNANCE
78
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Directors’ Report continued
Political Donations
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make 
no donations to political parties. 
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the 
basis of the suitability of their qualifications and experience, 
regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual 
orientation or religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment from disabled 
people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes. 
Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of 
staff who become disabled, including considering them for 
other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s 
employees remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, 
recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld 
maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit 
of its employees, which can be accessed by employees via the 
Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human 
Resources manual on the Company’s intranet. Continuing 
education, training and development are important to ensure 
the future success of the Group and employee development 
is encouraged through appropriate training. The Group 
supports individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further 
education qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up 
to a specified level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings 
are held regularly to provide updates on the Group’s business 
and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback. The 
Company also maintains both an internet website which is 
freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head 
office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its 
performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme 
in the UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
Environmental Matters and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Information on the Group’s environmental policies are 
summarised in the Corporate Responsibility section on 
pages 33 to 34. This section provides the greenhouse gas 
(“GHG”) emission data and supporting information required 
by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013.
Organisational Boundary
The organisational boundary used for the Company’s GHG 
reporting is operational control. 
Reporting Scope
The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes 
1 and 2 (comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas 
emissions) from global operations.
As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional “outside 
of scope” emissions are included for owned transport to 
account for biofuel additions. Scope 3 well-to-tank (for all 
fuels) and transmission and distribution (from electricity) 
emissions are also included.
Emissions Included 
Mandatory emissions sources as specified by the 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (“Defra”) 
have been included in this report (see also ‘Estimates and 
Exclusions’ below). 
Table 1 shows Defra’s stated mandatory areas for reporting 
and how the stated categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements
Ref Defra requirement Relevance
A1 Fuel combustion (stationary) Natural gas (heating)
A2 Fuel combustion (mobile) Owned transport (fleet)
B Facility operation: process emissions N/A
B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration & aircon 
C Purchased electricity, heat, steam, cooling Electricity only GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 79
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Estimates and Exclusions
A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity 
and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2015. 
This affects under 0.1% of total emissions.
Data on fugitive emissions from CCI jurisdictions other 
than Czech Republic and Poland were not available and 
are excluded from the emissions figures given above. 
These combined omissions are estimated to represent 
less than 1% of total group emissions.
Emissions Intensity
The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover. 
This was chosen due to ready availability of the data. The value 
for the period was 220.0 tonnes CO
2
e per £m turnover. 
For comparison, 2014’s emissions were 139,153 tonnes CO
2
e 
at an intensity of 224.7 tCO
2
e/£m. 
Methodology and Emissions Factors
This report was calculated using the methodology set 
out in Defra’s updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ref. PB 13944), issued 
by Defra in June 2013. Emissions factors are taken from 
DECC/Defra 2015 update. 
Emissions factors for fuels use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream 
additions to account for emissions from sourcing and 
processing fuel. Owned transport emissions include outside-
of-scope additions for biogenic additions. Electricity emissions 
include transmission and distribution losses.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at Picturehouse 
Central, Corner of Great Windmill Street and Shaftesbury 
Avenue, Piccadilly, London W1D 7DH at 10.30am on 19 May 
2016 is contained in the AGM circular. Details of all the 
resolutions to be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
Auditor and Tender
At the date of this Annual Report, a tender process is 
underway in respect of the Company’s 2016 audit (“Tender”). 
If KPMG LLP “KPMG” is re-selected pursuant to the Tender, 
or if the Tender does not complete prior to the posting of the 
Company’s Notice of AGM, KPMG have confirmed that they 
are willing to continue in office, and resolutions proposing 
their reappointment and authorising the Audit Committee 
to agree their fees, will be proposed at the AGM. KPMG 
will subsequently resign if not re-selected pursuant to the 
Tender. If the Tender does complete prior to the posting of 
the Company’s Notice of AGM, and the selected Auditor 
is not KPMG, then such resolutions will relate to the newly 
selected Auditor. 
Disclosure of Information to Auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and each Director has taken all steps that 
he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
F Smith
Company Secretary
Cineworld Group plc
10 March 2016
Registered Office:
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick, London W4 5PY 
Registered: England No: 5212407
GHG Emissions Data
The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2015 are shown in Table 2 below in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (tCO
2
e).
Table 2: 2015 GHG Emissions
Ref Category tCO
2
e 2014 tCO
2
e 2015
A1 Fuel combustion (stationary) 16,506 18,330
A2 Fuel combustion (mobile) 745 922
B Facility operation 4,893 3,242
C Purchased electricity 117,009 132,798
Total 139,153 155,292 GOVERNANCE
80
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the group 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and 
parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
• for the group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU; 
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent company financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group 
and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the 
annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the directors’ report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Israel Greidinger
Deputy Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2016 GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 81
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group 
plc (“Cineworld” or “Group”) for the 52 week period ended 
31 December 2015 set out on pages 84 to 135. In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the 
52 week period then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, 
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Onerous lease provisions (£5.6m)
Refer to page 49 (Audit committee report), page 95 
(accounting policy) and page 120 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: The Group provides for an onerous lease when it 
considers that the unavoidable cost of the lease obligation 
from operating a cinema is in excess of the expected 
economic benefits, but where continuing to operate the 
cinema is rational because it contributes towards mitigating 
the impact of that unavoidable cost. There is a risk that the 
provision may be misstated if inappropriate estimates and 
assumptions are applied in the valuation model.
• The onerous lease provision is revisited annually using a 
valuation model to determine whether any further provision 
or release is required. Estimating future operating cash 
flows at a cinema level requires consideration of current 
and expected market conditions both nationally and locally. 
The value of the provision is particularly sensitive to the 
assumptions used in relation to the discount rate and to 
forecast revenues. The latter is mainly because: the Group 
has no direct control over the films released for distribution; 
there is limited visibility over the release schedule more 
than 12 months into the future; and there can be variation 
in performance of the films over the diverse geographic 
footprint of the Group. 
• Our response: Our principal audit procedures included 
challenging the operating cash flow forecast of each 
cinema for which a provision has been made by considering 
the forecast cash flows against historical cash flow trends 
and assessing the basis for and impact of both expected 
changes in market conditions and the future plans of the 
business. We also considered the appropriateness and 
accuracy of the valuation model, including assessing the 
key assumptions driving revenue growth and the discount 
rate against our internal and external benchmark data; 
and considered likely sensitivities and their quantum by 
adjusting the input assumptions. We further considered 
the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure around the degree 
of estimation involved in arriving at the provision and 
the level of sensitivity of the provision to changes in the 
input assumptions.
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment 
(£345.4m) Refer to page 49 (Audit committee report), 
page 91 (accounting policy) and pages 103 to 104 
(financial disclosures).
• The risk: The carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment balances at an individual cinema level may not 
be recoverable through future cash flows as local factors, 
such as increased competition, can materially affect site 
performance. The key sensitivities in the calculation are 
the assumptions used in calculating the discount rate and 
the difficulties in accurately predicting the performance of 
sites operated by the Group. As explained in the Onerous 
lease provision risk above, there is inherent uncertainty 
involved in forecasting revenues. Given this uncertainty and 
the number of sites across the Group, this is deemed to be 
one of the Group’s key judgement areas.
• Our response: Our principal audit procedures included 
challenging the cinema cash flow forecasts by comparing 
them against historical performance trends, together 
with assessing the basis for and impact of both expected 
changes in market conditions and the future plans of the 
business. We considered the underlying assumptions within 
the forecasts, including comparing revenue growth and 
discount rates against our internal and external benchmark 
data. We assessed management’s sensitivity analysis and 
the resulting headroom on the value-in-use estimates 
across all cinemas and considered the appropriateness 
of the associated disclosures.
Recognition of Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) income (£11.1m) 
Refer to page 49 (Audit committee report), page 95 
(accounting policy).
• The risk: VPF income is recognised on an accruals basis, 
dependent on the number and type of screenings made 
using digital display equipment. The terms of the VPF 
contract in the UK that determine when revenue can be 
recognised include requirements regarding the number, 
type, timing and overlap of screenings; as such the 
calculation of the accrual is complex. This complexity is 
enhanced by the large volume of screening data and the 
limitations of the Group’s information systems, which require 
manual intervention to fully reflect the contract terms. 
 Further, a third party is involved in agreeing the level of 
income due to the Group. The need for clarification on 
interpretation, data mismatches and processing delays 
have historically led to differences between the third party 
and the Group’s income calculations. This results in a six 
month gap between the income being recognised and 
the balances being fully reconciled with the third party 
supplier. This delay means the size of the year end accrual 
is significant.
 There is an added complexity in this year as the maximum 
eligible amount that can be earned under the contract has 
almost been reached. This requires the Group to agree the 
final amount due by demonstrating both the total amount 
eligible to be reclaimed per screen under the terms of the 
agreement and the amount previously reclaimed. There is 
a risk that the amount recognised may differ from the final 
third party calculation. VPF income is therefore deemed to 
remain one of the Group’s key judgement areas.  GOVERNANCE
82
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 Our response: Our principal audit procedures included: 
testing the Group’s controls over the VPF data collection 
and recognition process; assessing, in comparison to 
information received from the third party supplier, the 
accuracy and detail of the Group’s screening information; 
and considering the accuracy of the prior period 
accrued income by reference to receipts during the 
year. We considered the appropriateness of the level of 
income recognised by reference to the terms of the VPF 
agreement and by calculating the expected income. 
 In relation to the finalisation of the contract, we inspected 
supporting documentation, including correspondence 
with the third party supplier and the terms of the original 
contract, to compare the amounts under discussion with 
the total revenue expected to be recognised over the life 
of the contract. As final agreement over the total amount 
due under the contract has not yet been reached, we also 
considered the adequacy of the disclosure over the degree 
of estimation involved in determining the income accrued 
pending final agreement and the period remaining revenue 
under the contract is expected to be recognised.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £3.5m (2014: £2.7m). This has been determined 
with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before 
taxation (of which it represents 3.5% (2014: 4% of Group 
profit before taxation)). 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and 
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £175,000 
(2014: £135,000), in addition to other identified misstatements 
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scoping and Coverage
Group Revenue (%)
Group audited 60%
Component audited 28%
Out of scope 12%
Group Proﬁt Before Taxation (%)
Group audited 69%
Component audited 12%
Out of scope 19%
Group Total Assets (%)
Group audited 73%
Component audited 20%
Out of scope 7%
The Group operates in nine countries across the UK and 
Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel, each of 
which is considered to be a reporting component. We 
performed audits for group reporting purposes on five of 
these components, resulting in coverage of 88% of total 
Group revenue; 81% of Group profit before taxation; and 
93% of Group total assets. For the remaining components, 
we performed analytical procedures at a group level to 
re-examine our assessment that there was no significant 
risk of material misstatement within these.
The work was performed by component auditors across 
four components in Poland; Israel; Hungary and Romania, 
and by the Group audit team for the UK. 
The Group team instructed the KPMG component auditors as 
to the significant areas to be covered (including the relevant 
risks detailed above) and set out the information required to 
be reported back to the Group audit team. The Group audit 
team approved component materiality, which was set at 
£2.6m (2014: £1.8m) for all components, having regard to the 
mix of size and risk profile of the businesses within the Group.
 
The Group audit team visited two component locations in 
Hungary and Romania to assess the audit risk and strategy 
and gain an understanding of the local finance environment. 
Meetings were held between the auditors of components and 
the Group audit team throughout the audit. At the planning 
stage these meetings focussed on the audit approach, while 
during the fieldwork and reporting stage they focused on the 
findings and observations reported to the Group audit team. 
All findings were discussed in more detail, and any further 
work deemed necessary by the Group audit team was then 
performed by the component auditor. 
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006;
• the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and 
• the information given in the Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages with respect to internal 
control and risk management systems in relation to 
financial reporting processes and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of 
principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the directors’ statement of long term viability on page 40, 
concerning the principal risks, their management, and, 
based on that, the directors’ assessment and expectations 
of the group’s continuing in operation over the three years 
to 31 December 2018; or 
• the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis 
of accounting. 
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only  GOVERNANCE
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 83
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you 
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have identified other information in the annual report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, 
or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our auditor 
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statements, set out on page 40, in relation 
to going concern and longer-term viability; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
35 to 53 relating to the company’s compliance with the 
eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities. 
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 80, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description 
of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.
org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely 
to the company’s members as a body and is subject to 
important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.
com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into 
this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide 
an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work 
we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Summerfield 
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London 
E14 5GL
10 March 2016   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
for the Period Ended 31 December 2015
Note
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January
2015
£m
Revenue 2 705.8 619.4
Cost of sales (504.3) (438.9)
Gross profit 201.5 180.5
Other operating income 3 8.7 2.0
Administrative expenses (107.1) (106.5)
Operating profit 4 103.1 76.0
Analysed between:
Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous leases and other 
non‑recurring charges, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction and 
reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets 155.3 126.6
• Depreciation and amortisation 4 (49.4) (46.6)
• Onerous leases and other non ‑ recurring charges 4 1.7 1.9
• Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 (9.0) 1.0
• Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 (1.9) (6.9)
• Profits on disposals of assets classified as held for sale 6.4 –
Finance income 7 8.7 6.6
Finance expenses 7 (12.1) (15.2)
Net finance costs (3.4) (8.6)
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax – (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 99.7 67.3
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 (18.4) (12.8)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 81.3 54.5
Basic earnings per share (pence) 5 30.7 22.1
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 5 30.4 21.9
The Notes on pages 89 to 135 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 85
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Other  
Comprehensive Income
for the Period Ended 31 December 2015
52 week 
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Group 81.3 54.5
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset 0.2 1.6
Tax recognised on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss – (0.4)
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge 1.1 0.8
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges recycled to profit or loss – 1.9
Foreign exchange translation loss (16.9) (34.1)
Tax recognised on income and expenses to be reclassified to profit or loss – 0.1
Other comprehensive loss for the period, net of income tax (15.6) (30.1)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the Group 65.7 24.4  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
86
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 31 December 2015
Note
31 December 2015 1 January 2015
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 345.4 297.6
Goodwill 10 539.3 552.8
Intangible assets 10 52.5 59.8
Investments in equity‑ accounted investee 11 0.6 0.5
Other receivables 14 6.1 6.0
Employee benefits 18 10.5 8.6
Deferred tax assets 12 – 13.5
Total non-current assets 954.4 938.8
Current assets
Inventories 13 9.2 7.7
Trade and other receivables 14 67.8 61.3
Assets classified as held for sale 15 – 1.5
Cash and cash equivalents 62.5 37.4
Total current assets 139.5 107.9
Total assets 1,093.9 1,046.7
Current liabilities
Interest‑ bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (15.7) (24.8)
Trade and other payables 17 (141.8) (110.7)
Current taxes payable (8.4) (8.5)
Bank overdraft – (2.1)
Provisions 19 (4.7) (6.6)
Total current liabilities (170.6) (152.7)
Non-current liabilities
Interest‑ bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (292.0) (292.4)
Other payables 17 (67.0) (57.1)
Government grants (1.8) (1.8)
Provisions 19 (18.5) (21.2)
Employee benefits 18 (1.3) (1.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 12 (8.0) (14.2)
Total non-current liabilities (388.6) (387.7)
Total liabilities (559.2) (540.4)
Net assets 534.7 506.3
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Group
Share capital 20 2.7 2.6
Share premium 295.7 294.9
Translation reserves 20 (49.3) (32.4)
Merger reserve 207.3 207.3
Hedging reserves 20 0.3 (0.8)
Retained earnings 78.0 34.7
Total equity 534.7 506.3
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mooky Greidinger     Israel Greidinger
Director       Director  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 87
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 31 December 2015
Issued 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
£m
Balance at 26 December 2013 1.5 188.2 – 1.7 (1.9) 4.4 193.9
Profit for the period – – – – – 54.5 54.5
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit and loss 
in respect of cash flow hedges – – – – 1.9 – 1.9
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset – – – – – 1.6 1.6
Tax recognised on items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss – – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit 
or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries – – – (34.1) – – (34.1)
Tax recognised on income and expenses 
recognised directly in equity – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – – (26.9) (26.9)
Movements due to share‑ based compensation – – – – – 1.4 1.4
Issue of shares 1.1 106.7 207.3 – – – 315.1
Balance at 1 January 2015 2.6 294.9 207.3 (32.4) (0.8) 34.7 506.3
Profit for the period – – – – – 81.3 81.3
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Tax recognised on items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss – – – – – – –
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit 
or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries – – – (16.9) – – (16.9)
Tax recognised on income and expenses 
recognised directly in equity – – – – – – –
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – – (39.0) (39.0)
Movements due to share‑ based compensation – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Issue of shares 0.1 0.8 – – – – 0.9
Balance at 31 December 2015 2.7 295.7 207.3 (49.3) 0.3 78.0 534.7  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the Period Ended 31 December 2015
Note
52 week 
period ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week 
period ended
1 January
2015 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit for the period 81.3 54.5
Adjustments for:
 Financial income 7 (8.7) (6.6)
 Financial expense 7 12.1 13.3
 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity 7 – 1.9
 Taxation 8 18.4 12.8
 Share of loss of equity‑ accounted investee – 0.1
Operating profit 103.1 76.0
Depreciation and amortisation 4 49.4 46.6
Non‑ cash property charges (5.7) (2.5)
Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 9.0 (1.0)
Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost 18 (1.6) (1.6)
Increase in trade and other receivables (8.3) (3.4)
Increase in inventories (1.5) (0.8)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 32.1 (7.0)
Decrease in provisions and employee benefit obligations (0.2) (8.1)
Cash generated from operations 176.3 98.2
Tax paid (10.4) (12.1)
Net cash flow from operating activities 165.9 86.1
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received 0.3 0.2
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of acquired cash – (278.5)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (88.6) (48.1)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.0 0.7
Net cash flow from investing activities (80.3) (325.7)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from share issue 0.9 107.4
Dividends paid to shareholders (39.0) (26.9)
Interest paid (9.4) (10.4)
Repayment of bank loans (98.6) (202.2)
Proceeds from bank loans 89.3 392.9
Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.9) (0.7)
Net cash from financing activities (57.7) 260.1
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 27.9 20.5
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (2.8) (2.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 37.4 19.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 62.5 37.4  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 89
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements)
1. Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
Cineworld Group plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and 
equity account the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The Parent Company financial statements present information 
about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK standards including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; these are presented 
on pages 129 to 135.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement on pages 8 to 9 and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 22 to 28. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review on pages 29 to 32. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern
At the period end the Group met its day‑ to‑ day working capital requirements through its bank loan, which consisted of a term 
loan and a revolving facility (see Note 16 to the financial statements).
As part of the combination with Cinema City, the Group entered into a five‑ year facility in January 2014 which was used to part 
finance the combination, repay the pre‑ combination facilities of both Cineworld and Cinema City and fund the general working capital 
requirements of the Group. The facility included term loans of £165.0m and €132.0m and revolving credit facilities of £75.0m and 
€60.0m. In June 2015, the first pre‑ payments were made to the term loans, reducing the liabilities to £157.5m and €126.0m. 
On 29 July 2015 Cineworld Group plc signed an amendment and extension to its existing banking facility which was effective 
immediately upon signing and extends the facility to June 2020. As a result, the term loans were reduced from £157.5m and 
€126.0m to £130.0m and €63.0m. The Group now has a single multi‑ currency revolving credit facility of £190.0m.
The facility remains subject to the existing two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre‑ rent 
EBITDA) to net finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility for at least 12 months from the 
approval date of the financial statements, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. The Group therefore continues 
to adopt the going concern basis.
Measurement Convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their 
fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as 
available for sale.
The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control 
commences until the date on which control ceases.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees)
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement and requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled 
entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s 
investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted 
investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses 
exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further 
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments 
on behalf of an investee.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation
Intra‑ group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra‑ group transactions, are 
eliminated. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity‑ accounted investees are eliminated against the investment 
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, 
but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Use of non-GAAP Profit and Loss Measures
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures:
• EBITDA
• Adjusted profit before tax
• Adjusted profit after tax
Provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period.
The Group defines EBITDA as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss as Operating profit before depreciation 
and amortisation, onerous leases and other non‑ recurring charges, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction and 
reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets.
Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets (excluding acquired movie distribution 
rights), and certain non‑ recurring, non cash items and foreign exchange as set out in Note 5. Adjusted profit before tax is an 
internal measure used by management, as they believe it better reflects the underlying performance of the Group. 
Adjusted profit after tax is arrived at by applying an effective tax rate to adjusted profit before tax.
Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non‑ monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate 
at the date of the transaction. Non‑ monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value 
are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average 
rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 (the date of incorporation) 
are taken directly to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant 
gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at 
the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value 
of the quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument 
is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement 
of comprehensive income.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 91
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement 
in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship 
but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is 
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected 
to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of other comprehensive 
income immediately.
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments
Non‑ derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, 
interest bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose 
only of the statement of cash flows.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings
Interest‑ bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest‑ bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption 
value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items 
of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as 
finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered 
separately from that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower 
of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
All other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s balance sheet.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight‑line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
• Land and buildings: freehold properties      50 years
• Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements  30 years or life of lease if shorter
• Plant and machinery        3 to 16 years
• Fixtures and fittings        3 to 16 years
No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
Business Combinations
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred 
(including the fair value of any previously‑ held equity interest in the acquire) and the recognised amount of any non‑ controlling 
interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement. Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the 
Group incurs in connection with business combinations are expensed as incurred.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash‑ generating units and is not 
amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Distribution rights that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight‑ line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible 
assets unless such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested 
for impairment at each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
Distribution rights are amortised by film title from the date of release of the film, at 50% in the first year of release and 25% 
in each of the two subsequent years. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
• Brands   10 to 20 years
• Distribution rights 3 years
• Other intangibles 5 to 10 years
Non-current Assets Held for Sale
A non‑ current asset or a group of assets containing a non‑ current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if its 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale 
and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non‑ current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss. The same applies to gains and losses on 
subsequent remeasurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. Any impairment loss 
on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except that no loss 
is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue 
to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment once 
classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First‑ In, First‑ Out 
(“FIFO”) principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location 
and condition, and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
selling costs.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet 
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For goodwill assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance 
sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash‑ generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash‑ generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to cash‑ generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other intangible assets in the unit 
on a pro rata basis. A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre‑ tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash‑ generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 93
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as 
a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Pension Plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value 
of any plan assets.
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic 
benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate 
the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets 
(excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in the Statement 
of Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit 
liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the 
annual period to the then‑ net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability 
(asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to 
defined benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service 
or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognises gains and losses on the 
settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the 
Black‑ Scholes model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture 
is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share 
appreciation rights is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised 
in the income statement.
Government Grants
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will 
be received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. They are then recognised in profit or loss 
as other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is 
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre‑ tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase 
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
94
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra‑ Group transactions. 
All the Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods and services:
• Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
• Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
• Advertising revenue is recognised over the period the advert is shown in cinemas.
• Distribution revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
• Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually 
in advance it is recognised on a straight‑ line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to 
which it relates.
• Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other Income
Other income represents rent receivable and profit on disposals of fixed assets. Rental income is recognised on a straight‑ line 
basis over the life of the lease.
Expenses
Operating Lease Payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight‑ line basis 
over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total 
lease expense. Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, 
the Group recognises the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight‑ line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on property provisions, 
finance lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign 
exchange gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets 
concerned have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount 
are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and the 
associated finance lease liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets 
concerned have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount 
is recognised in the income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been 
completed at fair value.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary 
differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither 
accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to 
the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 95
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues 
and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. 
An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources 
to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key 
estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Onerous Leases
Provision is made for onerous leases on acquisition of a cinema as part of a business, where it is considered that the unavoidable 
costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable 
costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of 
continuing to operating the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it.
When calculating the provision for an onerous lease the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash 
flows to be generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. 
The resulting provision is sensitive to the assumptions in respect of future cash flows. However, the Directors consider that 
the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the 
discount rate used is appropriate given the risks associated with these cash flows. Management has applied sensitivity analysis 
to the estimate (see Note 19).
Virtual Print Fees
A Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) is recognised as a discount from the cost the Group pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving 
to the studios of the move to digital. The income recognition criteria in respect of the VPF received in the UK is complex as 
it includes the number, type and timing of screenings.
A VPF is receivable the first time a film is played in a digital format on a screen rather than using 35mm film. A VPF is recognised 
on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and is included in cost of sales as a reduction of the film hire costs. 
VPFs in the UK will not be received from 2017 onwards. 
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use of 
the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate 
of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate 
the present value of those cash flows.
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however management 
has also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates (see Note 10).
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist. This requires an estimate 
of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated. Estimating the value in use 
requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units that holds the tangible 
fixed assets at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to 
be generated from the individual cinema sites. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. 
The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in respect of future cash flows. However, the Directors consider that the 
assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount 
rate used is appropriate given the risks associated with these cash flows. Management has applied sensitivity analysis to the 
estimates (see Note 9).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
96
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and represent 
the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial valuations 
include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions vary from 
time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used are provided in Note 18.
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability 
is very sensitive to these assumptions.
Deferred Tax Assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date. The Group applies 
estimates when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient 
to ensure their recoverability.
Judgements
In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Group’s accounting policies described 
above. The key judgements are:
Finance and Operating Leases
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset. The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 “Leases” when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, 
and in most cases the outcome is clear.
Hedging Arrangements
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements. 
In order to apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments”, the Group must consider the effectiveness 
of its hedging arrangements when deciding whether it can hedge account.
New Standards and Interpretations
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. The following standards, amendments 
and interpretations were adopted for the period ended 31 December 2015 and have not had a material impact on the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
• Annual improvements to IFRSs
• Amendment to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’
• IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following standards and interpretations which have been issued but which 
are not effective at 31 for the period ended 31 December 2015. These standards and interpretations have not been adopted early. 
• IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’
• IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ 
• IFRS 16, ‘Leasing’  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 97
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Operating Segments
In 2014 the combination with Cinema City Holdings B.V. led to the Group Board (the “CODM”) realigning its management 
information. This change gave rise to the inclusion of the additional operating segment, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel 
(“CEE & Israel”). During 2015, following the completion of the review by the Competition and Markets Authority on the acquisition 
of Picturehouse, Picturehouse has now been integrated into the wider UK business. As such the performance of Cineworld and 
Picturehouse is now reported together as “UK & Ireland”. The Group now has therefore determined that is has two operating 
segments: UK and Ireland and Central and Eastern Europe and Israel (CEE & I). 
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
CEE & I
£m
Total
£m
52 weeks to 31 December 2015
Total revenues
(1)
465.9 239.9 705.8
EBITDA 95.7 59.6 155.3
Segmental operating profit 71.3 31.8 103.1
Net finance costs (3.0) (0.4) (3.4)
Depreciation and amortisation 25.6 23.8 49.4
Profit before tax 68.3 31.4 99.7
Non‑ current asset additions – property, plant and equipment 57.7 41.9 99.6
Non‑ current asset additions – intangible assets – 5.0 5.0
Investment in equity accounted investee 0.6 – 0.6
Non‑ current asset – goodwill 236.2 303.1 539.3
Onerous leases and other non‑ recurring charges (1.6) (0.1) (1.7)
Impairments and reversals of impairments 6.3 2.7 9.0
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.7 0.2 1.9
Segmental total assets 519.4 574.5 1,093.9
53 weeks to 1 January 2015
Total revenues
(1)
425.3 194.1 619.4
EBITDA 78.8 47.8 126.6
Segmental operating profit 47.4 28.6 76.0
Net finance costs (7.6) (1.0) (8.6)
Depreciation and amortisation 25.0 21.6 46.6
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity method, net of tax (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit before tax 39.7 27.6 67.3
Non‑ current asset additions – property, plant and equipment 29.5 155.4 184.9
Non‑ current asset additions – goodwill – 336.3 336.3
Non‑ current asset additions – intangible assets – 57.1 57.1
Investment in equity accounted investee 0.5 – 0.5
Non‑ current asset – goodwill 236.2 316.6 552.8
Onerous leases and other non‑ recurring charges (1.5) (0.4) (1.9)
Impairments and reversals of impairments (1.0) – (1.0)
Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 – 6.9
Segmental total assets 489.7 557.0 1,046.7
(1) All revenues were received from third parties.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
98
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
2. Operating Segments continued
Entity Wide Disclosures
Revenue by country
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
Total 
£m
53 week 
period ended
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
United Kingdom & Ireland 465.9 425.5
Israel 52.0 36.4
Poland 78.0 70.8
Bulgaria 11.0 9.1
Romania 30.3 23.1
Hungary 39.0 30.6
Slovakia 6.7 6.2
Czech Republic 22.9 17.7
Total revenue 705.8 619.4
UK & Ireland
Revenue by product and service provided
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
Total 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
Box office 311.9 288.7
Retail 107.2 99.2
Other 46.8 37.6
Total revenue 465.9 425.5
CEE & Israel
Revenue by product and service provided
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
Total 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
Box office 139.7 110.5
Retail 55.5 42.7
Other 44.7 40.7
Total revenue 239.9 193.9
3. Other Operating Income
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
Total 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
Rental income 2.3 1.8
Other income – 0.2
Profits on disposals of assets classified as held for sale 6.4 –
Total other operating income 8.7 2.0  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 99
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. Operating Profit
Included in operating profit for the period are the following:
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
Total 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
Depreciation (see Note 9) 38.4
(1)
37.3
(1)
Impairments (see Notes 9 and 10) 9.0
(1)
0.3
(1)
Reversals of impairments (see Notes 9 and 10) – (1.3)
(1)
Amortisation of intangibles (see Note 10) 11.0
(1)
9.3
(1)
Onerous leases and other non‑ recurring charges (1.7)
(1)
(1.9)
(1)
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.9
(1)
6.9
(1)
Hire of other assets – operating leases 80.8
(2)
77.2
(2)
(1) Included in administrative expenses.
(2) £0.9m (2014: £0.4m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
In 2015 there is a gain of £2.0m (2014: £4.6m) on onerous leases following changes in trading assumptions, net of other 
non‑recurring charges made related to provisions of £0.3m (2014: these related to provisions of £2.0m and development 
costs incurred of £0.7m).
In 2015 transaction and reorganisation costs include £1.9m relating the integration of head office functions and redundancy costs. 
In 2014 transactions and reorganisation costs include £5.5m relating to the acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B.V. and £1.4m 
of reorganisation and redundancy costs.
 
The total remuneration of the Group auditor, KPMG LLP, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015
Total
£m
53 week 
period ended 
 1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
Auditor’s remuneration:
Group – audit 753 591
Company – audit 6 6
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 759 597
– Audit related assurance services 86 86
– Tax compliance services 90 57
– Tax advisory services 464 206
– Other assurance services – 75
– All other services 20 55
5. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non‑ vested 
ordinary shares held by the employee ownership trust. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that 
the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, 
the impact of foreign exchange gains and losses recognised on the translation of results generated in currencies other than the 
Group’s reporting currency and other one‑ off income or expense and then adjusting for the tax impact on those items which is 
calculated at the effective tax rate for the current period. The performance of adjusted earnings per share is used to determine 
awards to Executive Directors under the Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”). Diluted earnings per share is calculated by 
dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by weighted average number of any non‑ vested ordinary 
shares held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
100
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
5. Earnings Per Share continued
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week  
period ended  
1 January  
2015
£m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 81.3 54.5
Adjustments:
Amortisation of intangible assets
(1)
4.2 5.4
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.9 6.9
Impairments and reversals of impairments 9.0 (1.0)
Onerous lease cost and other non‑ recurring charges (1.7) (1.9)
Exceptional finance charges
(2)
– 2.6
Impact of foreign exchange translation gains and losses
(3)
(3.9) (4.3)
Profit on disposal of assets classified as held for sale (6.4) –
Adjusted earnings 84.4 62.2
Tax effect of above items (0.6) (1.0)
Adjusted profit after tax 83.8 61.2
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015 
Number of 
shares (m)
53 week  
period ended  
1 January 
2015 
Number of 
shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue 264.7 246.3
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator 264.7 246.3
Dilutive options 2.5 2.4
Diluted earnings per share denominator 267.2 248.7
Shares in issue at period end 267.2 263.9
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 30.7 22.1
Diluted earnings per share 30.4 21.9
Adjusted basic earnings per share (rights adjusted)
(4)
31.7 24.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (rights adjusted)
(4)
31.4 24.4
(1) Amortisation of intangible assets includes amortisation of the fair value placed on brands, customer lists, distribution relationships, and advertising 
relationships as a result of the Picturehouse acquisition and Cinema City business combination. It does not include amortisation of purchased distribution 
rights (which totalled £6.5m (2014: £3.9m). 
(2) Exceptional finance charges of £2.6m in 2014 included £1.9m in respect of the net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity 
and the write off of £0.7m prepaid finance costs in respect of the Group’s old debt facilities, no such charges were incurred in 2015.
(3) Net foreign exchange gain included within earnings comprises of £7.7m foreign exchange gain recognised on translation of the Euro term loan 
at 31 December 2015 and £3.8m foreign exchange losses recognised on translating overseas operations into the reporting currency of the Group.
(4) The 2014 adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share have been adjusted for the first 48 days of the period to take into account of the rights issue 
of 8 for 25 shares on 14 February 2014. 
6. Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period, analysed by category, 
was as follows:
Number of staff
2015 2014
Head office 624 636
Cinemas 8,682 8,043
9,306 8,679
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part‑ time employees. No distinction is made between 
full‑ time and part‑ time employees in the analysis above.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 101
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Staff Numbers and Costs continued
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
52 week  
period ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week  
period ended
1 January  
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 88.6 82.6
Social security costs 7.8 6.7
Other pension costs – defined contribution 0.6 0.8
Share‑ based payments (see Note 18) 1.8 1.6
98.8 91.7
See pages 54 to 74 for details of Directors’ remuneration.
7. Finance Income and Expense
52 week  
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
Interest income 0.3 0.3
Net foreign exchange gain 8.0 6.0
Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income (Note 18) 0.4 0.3
Finance income 8.7 6.6
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 9.3 10.2
Amortisation of financing costs 1.3 1.8
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 0.8 1.2
Unwind of discount on market rent provision 0.4 (0.7)
Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions – (0.1)
Other financial costs 0.3 0.9
Finance expense 12.1 13.3
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit or loss in respect settled of cash flow hedges – 1.9
Total finance expenses 12.1 15.2
Net finance costs 3.4 8.6
Recognised Within Other Comprehensive Income
52 week  
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended  
1 January  
2015
£m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap 1.1 0.8
Foreign exchange translation (loss) (16.9) (34.1)
Finance expense (15.8) (33.3)
8. Taxation
Recognised in the Income Statement
52 week 
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 11.2 13.7
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (0.1)
Total current tax expense 11.2 13.6
Deferred tax expense
Current year 7.2 –
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (0.8)
Total tax charge in income statement 18.4 12.8
Effective tax rate 18.5% 19.0%
Current year effective tax rate 18.5% 20.3%  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
102
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
8. Taxation continued
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
52 week 
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
Profit before tax 99.7 67.3
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 20.2 14.5
Differences in overseas tax rates (2.2) (2.2)
Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.9 1.1
Other permanent differences (1.5) 0.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (0.9)
Increase in unrecognised deferred tax assets – 0.1
Effect of change in statutory rate to 20% (2014: 20%) on deferred tax – –
Total tax charge in income statement 18.4 12.8
During the period there was a deferred tax debit of £Nil (2014: £0.4m) recognised directly in other comprehensive income. 
In the prior year this related to the actuarial loss on the defined benefit scheme and the movement in the fair value of the cash 
flow hedge on part of the Group’s bank loans; see Note 12.
Factors that May Affect Future Tax Charges
As at 31 December 2015 the Group had potential UK tax assets relating to the following:
• Capital losses of approximately £8.7m (2014: £8.7m).
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of UK and capital losses carried forward as it is not considered probable 
that future non‑ trading income or capital gains will be realised in the UK against which the losses may be utilised. 
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) 
were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. Further reductions to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective 1 April 
2020) were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. 
The UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2015 have been calculated based on these rates.
 
As at 31 December 2015 the Group had potential overseas tax assets relating to the following:
• Trading losses of approximately £7.1m.
• Other temporary differences of approximately £10.2m.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised on these temporary differences as it is not considered probable that future trading 
income or capital gains will be realised in these countries against which the assets can be utilised. 
The Group operates in nine countries and is subject to a wide range of tax laws and regulations. At any point in time it is 
normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local tax authorities. 
The group considers estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which can 
take years to resolve. The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the 
financial statements.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 103
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and 
buildings  
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Assets 
in the
course of
construction
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 26 December 2013 116.6 61.2 66.5 1.8 246.1
Additions due to acquisition 11.9 52.7 60.4 8.5 133.5
Additions 5.2 10.4 13.8 20.1 49.5
Disposals – (6.7) (1.4) – (8.1)
Transfers 4.0 0.6 1.8 (6.4) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (3.1) (9.4) (8.0) (0.6) (21.1)
Balance at 1 January 2015 134.6 108.8 133.1 23.4 399.9
Additions 21.0 15.5 24.1 39.0 99.6
Disposals (2.2) (4.4) (6.9) – (13.5)
Transfers 37.1 5.0 10.1 (52.2) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (2.3) (3.1) (1.3) 0.4 (6.3)
Balance at 31 December 2015 188.2 121.8 159.1 10.6 479.7
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance at 26 December 2013 30.2 23.5 30.3 – 84.0
Charge for the period 6.8 15.0 15.5 – 37.3
Disposals – (4.4) (1.3) – (5.7)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (2.1) (5.7) (4.5) – (12.3)
Impairments 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
Reversals of impairments (1.2) – (0.1) – (1.3)
Balance at 1 January 2015 33.8 28.6 39.9 – 102.3
Charge for the period 7.3 15.5 15.6 – 38.4
Disposals (0.3) (2.6) (7.5) – (10.4)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (1.4) (1.9) (1.7) – (5.0)
Impairments 4.7 1.8 2.5 – 9.0
Balance at 31 December 2015 44.1 41.4 48.8 – 134.3
Net book value
At 26 December 2013 86.4 37.7 36.2 1.8 162.1
At 1 January 2015 100.8 80.2 93.2 23.4 297.6
At 31 December 2015 144.1 80.4 110.3 10.6 345.4
Land and buildings are made up of short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements and freehold properties.
The net book value of assets held under a finance lease is:
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
The net book value of assets held under finance leases comprised
Opening net book value 7.1 5.0
Depreciation charge (0.3) (0.2)
Closing net book value 6.8 4.8
The above assets held under finance leases relate to two cinema sites, one cinema site which is included within land and buildings 
and equipment at another site which is held in plant and machinery. Interest of £1,209,000 (2014: £89,000) has been capitalised 
during the period which relates to the construction of new sites.
With respect to the tangible fixed asset disposals, no proceeds were receivable in the period.
Impairment
The Group considers each Cinema site to be a cash generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators 
of impairment. In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any 
information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use. The Group estimates value 
in use using a discounted cash flow model, which applies a pre‑ tax discount rate for the relevant territory, a table summarising 
the rates used is set out below.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
104
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
9. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
United Kingdom 11.36% 11.12%
Israel 17.28% 16.53%
Poland 13.10% 11.70%
Bulgaria 15.27% 15.98%
Romania 16.69% 17.31%
Hungary 17.78% 16.54%
Slovakia 15.66% 16.21%
Czech Republic 15.48% 15.01%
The future cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one‑ year period. Cash flows beyond 
the first period have been extrapolated using the assumptions used in the impairment model. The £2.7m impairment loss, 
recognised in the CEE & Israel operating segment, was caused by trading not reaching expectations for the foreseeable future in 
relation to three cinema sites. Of the £6.3m impairment loss recognised in the UK and Ireland operating segment, £5.6m relates 
to development costs incurred on a site for which an onerous lease provision is in place, the remaining £0.7m was caused by 
trading not reaching expectations for the foreseeable future in relation to one cinema site.
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections for the purpose of the impairment review are as follows:
UK & Ireland CEE & Israel
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015
%
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
%
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015
%
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
%
Discount rate 11.36 11.12 (N/ A)
(1)
(N/A)
(1)
EBITDAR growth rate
(2)
3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00
Property cost growth rate 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00
(1) Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used, a summary is disclosed above.
(2) Flat growth rate assumptions are used for projections on established sites. For new sites, where a flat growth would not accurately reflect market 
conditions, more detailed growth assumptions are used for the first five years.
2016 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation. This is adjusted to add 
back rent (EBITDAR). In line with long‑ term industry growth rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 2.0% per annum from 
year 3 onwards. 
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 3.0% per annum over the life of the model. Cash flows are 
projected over the shorter of the life of the property lease or the intangible assets to which the cash flow relates
Impairment Reversals
A review of future cashflows for previously impaired cinema sites did not identify improvement in trading performance sufficient 
to recognise a reversal of impairment.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon forecasting future performance as well as the judgements used 
in arriving at future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the impairment charge 
of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the first five years and in the discount rates would be as follows:
£m
Potential impairment if business plan growth rates reached 75% assumptions used above 5.3
Potential impairment if property cost growth rates were increased by 1% for first five years 0.6
Potential impairment if discount rate was increased by 1% 2.1  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 105
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. Intangible Assets
Goodwill 
£m
Brand  
£m
Distribution 
rights 
£m
Other 
intangibles 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 26 December 2013 244.6 16.5 – – 261.1
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 336.3 24.3 17.2 11.5 389.3
Additions  – – 5.2 – 5.2
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (19.7) (1.4) (2.7) (0.8) (24.6)
Balance at 1 January 2015 561.2 39.4 19.7 10.7 631.0
Additions – – 4.9 0.1 5.0
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (13.5) (0.7) (0.5) (0.7) (15.4)
Balance at 31 December 2015 547.7 38.7 24.1 10.1 620.6
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
Balance at 26 December 2013 8.4 2.7 – – 11.1
Amortisation – 2.7 5.1 1.5 9.3
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – (1.6) (0.4) (2.0)
Balance at 1 January 2015 8.4 5.4 3.5 1.1 18.4
Amortisation – 2.7 6.5 1.8 11.0
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – (0.3) (0.3) (0.6)
Balance at 31 December 2015 8.4 8.1 9.7 2.6 28.8
Net book value
At 26 December 2013 236.2 13.8 – – 250.0
At 1 January 2015 552.8 34.0 16.2 9.6 612.6
At 31 December 2015 539.3 30.6 14.4 7.5 591.8
Impairment Testing
Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable 
under IAS 36 to group CGUs, in order to reflect the level at which it is monitored by management.
The ex‑ Cine‑ UK and ex‑ UGC (including Dublin) businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that goodwill is now monitored 
on a Cineworld wide level. The Picturehouse and Cinema City CGUs are considered as separate groups and have been tested for 
goodwill impairment on this basis, the Cinema City CGUs are considered on a territory basis, the territories being Poland (2015: 
£85.3m, 2014: £90.4m), Israel (2015: £52.6m, 2014: £50.3m), Hungary (2015: £40.3m, 2014: £43.0m), Romania (2015: £85.8m, 
2014: £91.9m), Bulgaria (2015: £13.1m, 2014: £13.9m), Czech (2015: £22.8m, 2014: £23.7m) and Slovakia (2015: £3.2m, 2014: £3.4m). 
The recoverable amount of Cineworld, Picturehouse and Cinema City CGU’s have been determined based on a value in 
use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering 
a five‑year period. Cash flows beyond the first year period have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth 
rate does not exceed the long‑ term average growth rate for the market in which the CGU operates.
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections for the purpose of the impairment review are as follows:
UK & Ireland CEE & Israel
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2015
%
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
%
52 week
period ended
31 December
2015
%
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
%
Discount rate 11.36 11.12 (N/ A)
(1)
(N/ A)
(1)
EBITDA growth rate 2.00 3.00 2.00 3.00
(1) Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used, a summary is disclosed in Note 9.
2016 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation. 
Cineworld and Picturehouse have discounted forecast flows using a pre‑ tax discount rate of 11.36% (2014: 11.12%) being a market 
participant’s discount rate. Cinema City have discounted forecast flows using a pre‑ tax discount rates relevant to the operating 
territory of each territory CGU (see note 10), being a market participant’s discount rate. This is considered to reflect the risks 
associated with the relevant cash flows each CGU.
Management have sensitised the key assumptions in the goodwill impairment tests including the discount rate and under both 
the base case and sensitised cases no indicators of impairment exist. Management believe that any reasonably possible change 
in the key assumptions on which recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable 
amount for any CGU’s assessed.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
106
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
10. Intangible Assets continued
Amortisation Charge
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
52 week
period ended
31 December
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Administrative expenses 11.0 9.3
11. Investment in Equity Accounted Investee
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity:
Country of Incorporation
Class of shares 
held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50%
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited 
(“Odeon”). On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office 
and existing contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require 
the unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management 
control of DCM, therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Cost 0.9 0.9
Share of post acquisition reserves (0.3) (0.3)
0.6 0.6
Share of post tax loss – (0.1)
Carrying value 0.6 0.5
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100%:
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Current assets 31.5 20.0
Non‑ current assets 1.7 2.0
Current liabilities (22.8) (16.4)
Non‑ current liabilities (11.0) (6.1)
Net liabilities (0.6) (0.5)
Income 65.3 52.8
Expenses (65.3) (52.9)
Net loss – (0.1)
Screen advertising represents an important part of the Group’s revenue streams and the joint venture partners recognise the 
importance of protecting this revenue stream. The joint venture partners are able to reduce their share of the advertising income 
if deemed necessary to support DCM.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 107
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 2.4 (2.1) (4.7) (1.8) (2.3)
Intangible assets – – (6.8) (7.8) (6.8) (7.8)
Employee benefits 1.0 1.0 (2.1) (1.7) (1.1) (0.7)
Reverse premiums – 1.8 – – – 1.8
Effect of straight‑ lining operating lease accruals – 5.5 – – – 5.5
Onerous lease 0.2 0.7 – – 0.2 0.7
Market rent 0.6 0.2 – – 0.6 0.2
Interest rate swap 0.5 0.5 – – 0.5 0.5
Tax losses 0.4 1.4 – – 0.4 1.4
Tax assets/(liabilities) 3.0 13.5 (11.0) (14.2) (8.0) (0.7)
Set off tax (3.0) (11.5) 3.0 11.5 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) – 2.0 (8.0) (2.7) (8.0) (0.7)
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at the local tax rates on the 
above items. 
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any 
key assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
1 January
2015
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
Forex
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment (2.3) 0.6 – (0.1) (1.8)
Intangible assets (7.7) 0.9 – – (6.8)
Employee benefits (0.7) (0.4) – – (1.1)
Reverse premiums 1.8 (1.8) – – –
Effect of straight‑ lining operating lease accruals 5.4 (5.4) – – –
Onerous lease 0.7 (0.5) – – 0.2
Market rent 0.2 0.4 – – 0.6
Interest rate swap 0.5 – – – 0.5
Tax losses 1.4 (1.0) – – 0.4
Tax liabilities (0.7) (7.2) – (0.1) (8.0)
13. Inventories
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Goods for resale 9.2 7.7
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to £45.5m (2014: £40.0m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
108
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
14. Trade and Other Receivables
Current
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Trade receivables 23.5 22.6
Other receivables 7.5 3.4
Other property receivables – 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 36.8 35.2
 67.8 61.3
Non-current
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Other property receivables 4.6 4.6
Land lease premiums 0.9 0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.6 0.5
6.1 6.0
Other property receivables represent the fair value asset of leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B.V. The fair value 
liabilities of leases acquired are presented in Note 25.
The Virtual Print Fee accrued income balance recognised at the year end of £3.5m (2014: £4.0m) is included within the 
prepayments and accrued income. The balance is accrued based on the number of relevant film screenings during the period.
15. Non-Current Assets Held For Sale
The Competition Commission ruled on 31 January 2014 that as a result of Cineworld Group plc acquiring City Screen Limited and 
its subsidiaries (“Picturehouse”) there was a substantial lessening of competition in three local geographical areas and that the 
divestment of either a Cineworld or Picturehouse cinema in each of the affected cities was required. As a result, the Group has 
divested itself of assets in Aberdeen and Bury St Edmunds in 2014 and divested assets in Cambridge on 29 January 2015. 
The values in the table below represent the net book value of property, plant and equipment and associated liabilities which are 
shown as current assets and liabilities held for sale. Since the fair value less costs to sell is expected to be in excess of the net 
book value of the property, plant and equipment no impairment of such assets is required.
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Assets classified as held for sale
Property, plant and equipment – 1.5
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest‑ bearing loans and borrowings.
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.6 1.8
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 285.3 283.9
Liabilities under finance leases 6.1 6.7
292.0 292.4
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1.0 0.9
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 14.0 23.2
Liabilities under finance leases 0.7 0.7
15.7 24.8
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 109
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
31 December 2015 1 January 2015
Currency Nominal interest rate
Year of 
maturity
Face
value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Face
value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Unsecured bank loan – 1 GBP LIBOR +1.65% 2020 256.2 252.4 209.0 206.0
Unsecured bank loan – 2 EURO EURIBOR +1.65% 2020 44.1 43.5 102.8 101.1
Unsecured bank loan – 3 NIS 2.6% 2020 3.4 3.4 – –
Finance lease liability – 1 GBP 7.2% 2029 6.2 6.2 6.4 6.4
Finance lease liability – 2 EURO 6.5% 2021 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.9
Total interest bearing liabilities 310.5 306.1 319.1 314.4
See Note 21 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Within one year 0.8 0.7
Between one and two years 0.8 0.6
In the second to fifth years 2.6 2.7
Over five years 6.4 7.4
10.6 11.4
Less future finance charges (3.8) (4.0)
6.8 7.4
Analysis of Net Debt
Cash at bank 
and in hand
£m
Bank 
overdraft
£m
Bank 
loans
£m
Finance
leases
£m
Interest rate
swap
£m
Net debt
£m
At 26 December 2013 19.0 – (122.7) (6.7) (1.9) (112.3)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 24.1 – – (0.7) – 23.4
Cash flows (3.6) (2.1) (188.6) 0.7 – (193.6)
Non‑ cash movement – – (1.8) (0.7) (0.8) (3.3)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates (2.1) – 6.0 – – 3.9
At 1 January 2015 37.4 (2.1) (307.1) (7.4) (2.7) (281.9)
Cash flows 27.9 2.1 1.9 1.0 – 32.9
Non‑ cash movement – – (1.8) (0.4) 1.1 (1.1)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates (2.8) – 7.7 – – 4.9
At 31 December 2015 62.5 – (299.3) (6.8) (1.6) (245.2)
The non‑ cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
110
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
17. Trade and Other Payables
31 December 
2015 
£m
1 January
2015 
£m
Current
Trade payables 33.9 28.3
Other payables 24.8 7.5
Accruals and deferred income 83.1 74.9
141.8 110.7
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income 67.0 57.1
67.0 57.1
Non‑ current accruals and deferred income include reverse‑ lease premiums and an accrual for straight‑ lining operating leases.
18. Employee Benefits
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension 
Scheme, and one in Ireland, the Adelphi‑ Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan
The Adelphi‑ Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil. 
The trustees of the Adelphi‑ Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded 
to the Company. Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised. The Scheme has a surplus of £0.6m as at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £0.5m).
Actuaries for Adelphi‑ Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2013. Based on this 
assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had 
accrued to members. In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 31 December 
2015. Total contributions for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2015 and 53 weeks ended 1 January 2015 were £nil and £nil, 
respectively. No contributions are expected for the year ended 31 December 2016.
MGM Scheme
The Scheme is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary. The Scheme 
closed to future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
The Group has engaged its actuary’s assistance in measuring the defined benefit asset for the purposes of IAS19 revised for the 
period ended 31 December 2015.
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2012. 
The present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured 
using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in the period in which they occur, but outside the Income Statement, through 
Other Comprehensive Income.
The Company made contributions of £1.6m during 2015 (2014: £1.6m).
The net surplus/(deficit) in the pension scheme is:
31 December 
2015 
£m
1 January
2015
£m
MGM Pension Scheme 10.5 8.6
Net surplus 10.5 8.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 111
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
MGM Pension Scheme
Profile of the Scheme
The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees, former employees and current pensioners.
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Analysis of defined benefit obligation by membership category
Total value of current employees benefits 2.9 2.8
Deferred members benefits 10.0 11.2
Pensioner member benefits 18.1 18.4
Total defined benefit obligation 31.0 32.4
The scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted–average time until benefit payments are made. For the Scheme as a whole, 
the duration is around 15 years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit obligation between current employees 
(duration of 26 years), deferred members (duration of 20 years) and current pensioners (duration of ten years).
Funding Requirements
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out 
by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2015 and showed a surplus of £1.7m. The Company is paying deficit contributions of £1.6m per 
annum to support the scheme, along with investment returns from return‑ seeking assets. The next funding valuation is due no 
later than 5 April 2018. 
Risks Associated With the Scheme
The Scheme exposes the Group to a number of risks, the most significant of which are:
Asset Volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond 
yields; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The Scheme holds a 
significant proportion of growth assets (equity diversified growth funds and global absolute 
return fund) which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long‑term, 
create volatility and risk in the short term. The allocation to growth assets is monitored to 
ensure it remains appropriate given the Scheme’s long‑term objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities 
for accounting purposes, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of 
the Scheme’s bond holdings.
Inflation Risk A significant proportion of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and 
higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of 
inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation). The majority of the 
assets are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an 
increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life Expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, 
so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (“GMP”). The UK Government intends 
to implement legislation which could result in an increase in the value of GMP for males. This would increase the defined benefit 
obligation of the plan. At this stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change.
The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are set out below:
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (31.0) (32.4)
Fair value of plan assets 41.5 41.0
Surplus in scheme 10.5 8.6
When the members’ benefits have been fully paid, the rules of the scheme permit any surplus to revert to the employer 
(the Group). Therefore the surplus on the scheme has been recognised as an asset.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
18. Employee Benefits continued
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
At beginning of period (32.4) (28.8)
Interest cost (1.1) (1.2)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1.4 (3.6)
Benefits paid 1.1 1.2
At end of period (31.0) (32.4)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
At start of period 41.0 34.1
Expected return on plan assets 1.4 1.5
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1.2) 5.2
Contributions by employer 1.6 1.6
Administration costs incurred (0.2) (0.2)
Benefits paid (1.1) (1.2)
At end of period 41.5 41.0
Income recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Operating cost
 Administration expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Net finance costs
 Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income 0.4 0.3
Other comprehensive income
 Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset 0.2 1.6
Total recognised in profit and loss and other comprehensive income 0.4 1.7
The income is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Administrative expenses (0.1) (0.2)
Finance income 0.4 0.3
Total 0.3 0.1
Analysis of amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Actuarial gains recognised in the period 0.2 1.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 113
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
The Scheme assets are invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market):
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Equities 8.3 6.8
Absolute return funds 16.1 14.5
Liability driven instruments 16.7 19.4
Other 0.4 0.3
Total 41.5 41.0
Cineworld Cinemas Limited employs a building block approach in determining the long‑ term rate of return on pension plan 
assets. Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with 
widely accepted capital market principles. The assumed long‑ term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this note. 
The overall expected rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the 
actual asset allocation for the Scheme at the accounting date.
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Expected return on scheme assets 1.4 1.5
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1.2) 5.2
Actual return on plan assets 0.2 6.7
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 are set out below:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015 
%
53 week
period ended
15 January
2015
%
RPI Inflation 3.1 3.1
CPI Inflation 2.0 2.0
Rate of general long‑ term increase in salaries 4.1 4.1
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 1.8–3.3 1.8–3.3
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.70 3.35
The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Scheme’s liabilities.
Main demographic assumptions
52 week period ended
31 December 2015
53 week period ended
1 January 2015
52 week period ended
26 December 2013
Mortality table adopted S1PXA base table with 
future improvements 
in line with CMI 2014 
core projections with 
long-term improvement 
rate of 1% per annum.
S1PXA base table with 
future improvements in 
line with CMI 2014 core 
projections with long‑term 
improvement rate of 1% per 
annum.
S1PXA base table with 
future improvements in 
line with CMI 2013 core 
projections with long‑term 
improvement rate of 1% per 
annum.
Life expectancy for male  
currently aged 65 22.1 22.1 22.0
Life expectancy for female  
currently aged 65 24.4 24.3 24.2
Cash commutation Members assumed to 
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump 
sum at retirement
Members assumed to 
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump 
sum at retirement
Members assumed to 
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump 
sum at retirement  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
18. Employee Benefits continued
The mortality assumptions are based on the recent actual mortality experience of scheme members, and allow for expected 
future improvement in mortality rates.
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance Sheet
52 week
period ended
1 December
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
52 week
period ended
26 December 
2013 
£m
52 week
period ended
27 December 
2012 
£m
53 week
period ended
29 December 
2011
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (31.0) (32.4) (28.8) (28.1) (28.4)
Fair value of plan assets 41.5 41.0 34.1 32.5 30.4
Surplus 10.5 8.6 5.3 4.4 2.0
Experience Adjustments
52 week
period ended
1 December
2015 
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
52 week
period ended
26 December 
2013
£m
52 week
period ended
27 December 
2012
£m
53 week
period ended
29 December 
2011
£m
Experience (loss)/gain on plan assets (1.2) 5.2 (0.1) 0.4 0.3
Experience (loss)/gain on plan liabilities (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 1.0 –
Sensitivity to Key Assumptions
The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are: discount rate, inflation and mortality. If different assumptions were used, this could have 
a material effect on the results disclosed. The sensitivity of the results to these assumptions is as follows:
Defined
Benefit 
Obligation
£m
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation (“DBO”) (31.0)
DBO following a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate (32.0)
DBO following a 0.25% increase in the discount rate (29.9)
DBO following a 0.25% decrease in the inflation assumption (30.3)
DBO following a 0.25% increase in the inflation assumption (31.7)
DBO following a Life Expectancy increase by 1 year (32.1)
The sensitivity information shown above has been prepared using the same method as adopted when adjusting the results of the 
latest funding valuation to the balance sheet date.
The Group expects to contribute approximately £1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period.
Defined Contribution Plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.6m (2014: £0.6m). There was £0.1m accruing to these pension 
schemes as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £0.1m).
Accrued Employee Retirement Rights
Local applicable labour laws and agreements in CEE require certain group companies to pay severance pay to dismissed 
or retiring employees (including those leaving their employment under certain other circumstances). The calculation of the 
severance pay liability has been made in accordance with labour agreements in force and based on salary components that, 
in management’s opinion, create entitlement to severance pay. 
Group companies’ severance pay liabilities to their employees are funded partially by regular deposits with recognised pension 
and severance pay funds in the employees’ names and by purchase of insurance policies. They are accounted for as if they were 
a defined contribution plan. The amounts funded as above are netted against the related liabilities and are not reflected in the 
statement of financial position since they are not under the control and management of the companies. 
The amounts of the liability for severance pay presented in the statement of financial position (see below) reflect that part of the 
liability not covered by the funds and the insurance policies mentioned above, as well as the liability that is funded by deposits 
with recognised central severance pay funds held under the name of the Company’s subsidiaries. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 115
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
The cost of severance provision is determined according to the projected unit credit method. It has been calculated using 
a discounted cash flow approach. The calculations are based on the following assumptions:
• Discount at 31 December 2015 1.73%. 
• Expected returns on plan assets at 31 December 2015 1.02%. 
The net provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement comprises:
31 December  
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Present value of unfunded obligation 2.4 2.8
Less: Fair value of plan assets (1.1) (1.8)
1.3 1.0
Movements in the provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement:
Gross  
amount 
£m
Amount 
deposited 
£m
Net  
amount 
£m
At start of period 2.8 (1.8) 1.0
Payments made upon retirement (0.4) 0.4 –
Net movement in provision – charged to net profit – 0.3 0.3
2.4 (1.1) 1.3
Share-Based Payments
As at 31 December 2015 there were three types of share option and share schemes:, the Cineworld Group 2007 Performance 
Share Plan, the Cineworld Group plc Company Share Option Plan and the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave Scheme. 
Details of each of the schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74. 
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The following share options have been granted under the PSP and were outstanding at 31 December 2015:
Date of grant Exercise period
2015
Number of 
shares 
’000
2014 
Number of 
shares 
’000
15 March 2013 3 years from 15 March 2013 420 464
6 June 2014 3 years from 6 June 2014 584 691
23 April 2015 3 years from 23 April 2015 414 –
30 June 2015 3 years from 30 June 2015 7 –
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years 
subject to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows:
15 March 2013
• 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 
2015) is not less than the annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 3% per annum compared and calculated for the 
same periods;
• 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015) is at least equivalent 
to the annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 8% per annum compared and calculated for the same periods; and
• where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 
2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest 
on a straight‑ line basis between 30% and 100%.
Under these grants, awards of 551,900 shares (pre the rights issue of 8 for 25 shares on 14 February 2014) were made in 
total. Awards over 317,228 shares were made with the performance conditions set out above. Further awards over 234,672 
shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance 
conditions attached.
EPS for the 2013 grant was defined as adjusted pro‑ forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
116
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
18. Employee Benefits continued
6 June 2014
• 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 
2016) is not less than the annual compound increase of 10% per annum;
• 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) is at least equivalent 
to the annual compound increase of 18% per annum; and
• Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 
and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a 
straight‑ line basis between 30% and 100%.Further awards over 142,305 shares were made which will vest after three years 
subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
Under these grants, awards of 705,515 shares were made in total. Awards of 563,210 shares were made with the performance 
conditions set out above. Further awards over 142,305 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued 
employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2014 grant was defined as adjusted pro‑ forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements.
23 April and 30 June 2015 
Under these grants, awards of 517,530 shares were made in total. Awards of 405,826 shares were made with the performance 
conditions set out below.
• 30% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ending 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017) 
is not less than 8.0%
• 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ending 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017) is at least 16.0%
• Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ending 1 January 2015 and 
the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017) is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight‑ line basis between 30% and 100%.
“EPS” means adjusted earnings per share calculated by dividing the profits for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders 
(adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets and other one‑ off income or expense adjusted pro‑ forma and 
applying a tax effect on all adjustments) by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the period, after excluding 
non‑ vested ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust at that time and adjusting for the effects of dilutive options
Further awards over 111,704 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no 
specified performance conditions attached.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options outstanding are as follows:
Date of grant
Share price
at grant
(£)
Exercise
price
(£)
Expected 
volatility
(%)
Expected life
(years)
Dividend
yield
(%)
Risk
free rate
(%) Fair value (£)
15 March 2013 2.79 – 42 3 4.7 0.51 2.43
6 June 2014 3.46 – 41 3 4.3 0.56 3.07
23 April 2015 4.81 – 39 3 4.3 0.59 4.22
30 June 2015 4.81 – 39 3 4.3 0.59 4.22
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 117
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
A reconciliation of option movements over the period to 31 December 2015 is shown below:
Number of 
options
2015 
Equity-
settled
’000
Number of 
options
2014 
Equity-
Settled
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,926 1,704
Adjustment due to rights issue – 188
Exercised in shares during the year (772) (299)
Granted during the year 518 705
Lapsed during the year (247) (372)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,425 1,926
A charge of £1.4m was recorded in the income statement for the four PSP schemes.
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
The following share options have been granted under the CSOP and were outstanding at 31 December 2015:
Date of grant Exercise period
2015
Number of 
shares
’000
2014
Number of 
shares
’000 Performance conditions
15 March 2013 3 years from 15 March 2013 23 25 Awards of 3,587 shares (pre the rights 
issue of 8 for 25 shares on 14 February 
2014) were made with the same 
conditions as the 2013 PSP grant.
Awards of 21,522 shares were made with 
no performance conditions attached.
6 June 2014 3 years from 6 June 2014 14 17 Awards of 2,891 shares were made 
with the same conditions as the 2014 
PSP grant.
Awards of 14,455 were made with no 
performance conditions attached.
23 April 2015 3 years from 23 April 2015 50 – All awards were made with no 
performance conditions attached. 
Assumptions relating to grants of share options outstanding are as follows:
Date of grant
Share price
at grant
(£)
Exercise
price
(£)
Expected 
volatility
(%)
Expected life
(years)
Dividend
yield
(%)
Risk
free rate
(%)
Fair value  
(£)
15 March 2013 2.79 2.79 42 3–10 years 4.7 0.51 0.58
6 June 2014 3.46 3.46 41 3–10 years 4.3 0.56 0.73
23 April 2015 4.81 4.81 39 3–10 years 4.3 0.59 0.94
A reconciliation of option movements over the period to 31 December 2015 is shown below:
Number of 
options
2015 
Equity-
settled
Number of 
options
2014 
Equity-
settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 104 151
Adjustment due to rights issue – 17
Exercised during the year (63) (70)
Granted during the year 50 17
Lapsed during the year (4) (11)
Outstanding at the end of the year 87 104
A charge of £0.1m was recorded in the income statement for the 4 CSOP schemes.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
18. Employee Benefits continued
Sharesave scheme
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options.
The following share options have been granted under the Sharesave scheme and were outstanding at 31 December 2015:
Date of grant
2015
Number of 
shares
’000
2014
Number of 
shares
’000
19 April 2012 1 547
8 May 2014 386 466
12 May 2015 406 –
Outstanding at the end of the year 792 1,013
A reconciliation of option movement over the period to 31 December 2015 is shown below:
Number of 
options
2015 
Equity-
settled
’000
Number of 
options
2014 
Equity-
Settled
’000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,013 567
Adjustment due to rights issue – 76
Exercised during the year (543) (15)
Granted during the year 430 491
Lapsed during the year (107) (106)
Outstanding at the end of the year 793 1,013
A charge of £0.3m was recorded in the income statement for the 3 Sharesave schemes. 
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share‑ based payments are as follows:
52 week
period ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
53 week
period ended  
1 January
2014
£m
Recognised in equity 0.8 1.4
Recognised in the income statement 1.0 0.2
1.8 1.6
The share‑ based payment expense recognised in creditors relates to dividends accrued by the option holders over the 
vesting period.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows:
Weighted 
average
exercise
price 2015
(£) 
Equity-
settled
Number of 
options
2015 
Equity-
settled
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 2014
(£) 
Equity-
settled
Number of 
options 
2014 
Equity-
settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 0.77 3,044 0.56 2,423
Adjustment due to rights issue – – – 281
Exercised in shares during the year 0.77 (1,378) 0.52 (385)
Granted during the year 1.90 998 1.03 1,214
Lapsed during the year 0.84 (359) 0.47 (489)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1.24 2,305 0.77 3,044
Exercisable at the end of the year 2.81 5 2.08 10
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 119
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
Single Total Figure Table (audited information)
The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
Financial 
Year
Base salary
and fees
(5)
(£000)
Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Executive Directors
Philip Bowcock
(4)
2015 375
(9)
20
(10)
248 4.5 535
(3)
15
(12)
550 75
(11)
1,273
2014 358 20 249 – 377
(7)
9
(7)
386 72 1,085
Mooky Greidinger
(4)
2015 550 77 476 – – – – 110 1,213
2014 459 66 349 – – – – 92 966
Israel Greidinger
(4)
2015 375 74 325 – – – – 75 849
2014 313 60 239 – – – – 63 675
Stephen Wiener
(4)
2015 – 1 – – 388
(3)
– 388 – 389
2014 122 12 85 – 462
(7)
5
(6)
467 25 711
Non-Executive  
Directors
Anthony Bloom 2015 175 – – – – – – – 175
2014 163 – – – – – – – 163
Martina King 2015 56 – – – – – – – 56
2014 48 – – – – – – – 48
Alicja 
Kornasiewicz
(8)
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
2014 – – – – – – – – –
David Maloney
(8)
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
2014 72 – – – – – – – 72
Scott Rosenblum 2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
Arni Samuelsson 2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
Rick Senat 2015 55 – – – – – – – 55
2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
Julie Southern
(8)
2015 39 – – – – – – – 39
2014 – – – – – – – – –
Peter Williams
(8)
2015 24 – – – – – – – 24
2014 59 – – – – – – – 59
(1) See page 58 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors. 
(2) Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures 
in this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3) The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.58, being the average price for the last three 
months of the period (as PSP will not vest until 15 March 2016), and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been 
paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener 
will amount to £23,370 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to £32,279.
(4) Philip Bowcock and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 October 2015 and 31 March 2014 respectively. Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger joined 
the Company on 27 February 2014.
(5) Base salaries and fees were increased on 27 February 2014 following completion of the combination with Cinema City and since then have remained 
the same.
(6) Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question. See page 55 of the 2014 Annual Report for details.
(7) Details of the actual gains made are set out on page 64. The actual figures differ from those in the table above (reflecting the 2014 Annual Report 
figures) as an estimated value was used of £3.57 a share to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards/option had not been exercised at that time.
(8) Alicja Kornasiewicz and Julie Southern joined the Board and David Maloney and Peter Williams left on 26 May 2015.
(9) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ salary paid in lieu of notice.
(10) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes the cost of two months’ benefits paid in lieu of notice. 
(11) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice.
(12) The gain on the CSOP options vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.52, being the share price on the date 
of vesting, as at 10 March 2016 they had not been exercised.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
120
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
18. Employee Benefits continued
Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan or alternatively 
may receive a pension allowance in cash. The Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive Directors is 20% of 
salary. All the Executive Directors (except Stephen Wiener) have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive 
a cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Share options were exercised by Stephen Wiener and Richard Jones during the year, details of the amounts exercised can 
be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 74.
19. Provisions
Property 
provisions 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
Total
provisions 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015
Current 1.5 5.1 6.6
Non‑ current 17.7 3.5 21.2
19.2 8.6 27.8
Provisions made 0.9 1.3 2.2
Provisions released to administrative expenses during the period (3.4) (1.7) (5.1)
Utilised against rent during the period (3.2) – (3.2)
Unwound against interest during the period 1.5 – 1.5
Balance at 31 December 2015 15.0 8.2 23.2
Current 1.5 3.2 4.7
Non‑ current 13.5 5.0 18.5
Total 15.0 8.2 23.2
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations, market rent adjustments and other property liabilities. Market rent 
provisions relate to the fair value of liabilities on leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B.V.
The majority of the property provision relates to onerous leases, which are made on the acquisition of a cinema as part of a 
business, being the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from 
operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the lease net cost of exiting from the contract and is measured as the 
lower of the net cost of continuing to operate the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it, measured on a discounted 
basis. The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the remaining lease life depending 
on the term of the lease. This is between one and 30 years (see further analysis below).
31 December 
2015 
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as:
Within one year 1.5 1.5
Between one and two years 1.4 1.7
In the second to fifth years 3.8 7.7
Over five years 8.3 8.3
15.0 19.2
The level of provision is dependent upon judgement in forecasting future cash flows and used in arriving at the discount rate 
applied to cash flow projections. Management have sensitised the key assumptions in assessing property provisions including 
the discount rate, management believe that under any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which provision 
is based they would not significantly change.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 121
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Capital and Reserves
Share Capital
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Cineworld Group plc
Allotted, called up and fully paid
265,232,321 (2014: 263,860,665) ordinary shares of £0.01 each 2.7 2.6
Translation Reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Merger Reserve
In accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium on ordinary shares issued in relation to acquisitions 
is recorded as a merger reserve.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swaps entered into, to hedge against variable interest 
payments on £119.0 (2014: £141.5m) of the total £300.3m (2014: £311.8m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been adopted 
the gains/losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to 
the income statement. During 2014 a £1.9m loss was recycled through the Profit or Loss account in respect of the fair value of 
cash flow hedges on loans settled during the year.
Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the period:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Interim 13.3 10.0
Final (for the preceding period) 25.7 16.9
39.0 26.9
An interim dividend of 5.0p per share was paid on 2 October 2015 to ordinary shareholders (2014: 2.8p). The Board has proposed 
a final dividend of 12.5p per share, which will result in total cash payable of approximately £33.2m on 7 July 2016. In accordance 
with IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2015.
21. Financial Instruments
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk.
• Liquidity risk.
• Market risk.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Group has in place a risk management programme and regular reports are made to the Audit Committee, which is tasked 
with general oversight.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk 
limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to 
reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and 
procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles 
and obligations.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain 
risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
122
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
21. Financial Instruments continued
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet 
its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, due to the nature of the Group’s business, 
trade receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 14. 
Of the total balance of £23.5m (2014: £22.6m) due 83% (2014: 68%) are within credit terms. The bad debt provision as at 2015 
is £306,000 (2014: £11,000), with a bad debt expense in the period of £Nil (2014: £nil). Based on past experience the Group 
believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due. The credit risk on 
liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit‑ ratings.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach 
to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of 
netting agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments 
calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on 
the balance sheet.
31 December 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months
or less 
£m
6–12
months 
£m
1–2
years 
£m
2–5
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 299.3 (303.8) (7.7) (7.7) (11.9) (276.5) –
Finance lease liabilities 6.8 (10.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.7) (2.1) (6.8)
Trade and other payables 33.9 (33.9) (33.9) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Interest rate swap 2 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Interest rate swap 3 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 4 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 5 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 6 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
341.6 (349.7) (42.7) (8.6) (13.0) (278.6) (6.8)
1 January 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months
or less 
£m
6–12
months 
£m
1–2
years 
£m
2–5
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 307.1 (311.8) (12.2) (12.2) (24.3) (263.1) –
Finance lease liabilities 7.4 (10.8) (0.4) (0.3) (0.7) (2.0) (7.4)
Trade and other payables 28.3 (28.3) (28.3) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.6 (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 2 0.6 (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 3 0.5 (0.7) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) (0.2) –
Interest rate swap 4 0.5 (0.7) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) (0.2) –
Interest rate swap 5 0.25 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) –
Interest rate swap 6 0.25 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) –
345.5 (353.9) (41.8) (13.2) (25.9) (265.6) (7.4)
As part of the combination with Cinema City, the Group entered into a five‑ year facility in January 2014 which was used to part 
finance the combination, repay the pre‑ combination facilities of both Cineworld and Cinema City and fund the general working 
capital requirements of the Group. The facility included term loans of £165.0m and €132.0m and revolving credit facilities of 
£75.0m and €60.0m. In June 2015, the first pre‑ payments were made to the term loans, reducing the liabilities to £157.5m and 
€126.0m. The total facility at the balance sheet date (translated at the applicable exchange rate) totalled £364.6m. On 29 July 
2015 Cineworld Group plc signed an amendment and extension to its existing banking facility which was effective immediately 
upon signing and extends the facility to June 2020. As a result, the term loans have reduced from £157.5m and €126.0m to 
£130.0m and €63.0m. The Group now has a single multi‑ currency revolving credit facility of £190m (2 July 2015: £75m and 
€60.0m). Based on the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, the revised facility totalled £364.7m. Whilst the overall level of 
facility has not materially changed since the balance sheet date, management believe that revised structure better reflects the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 123
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
financing and working capital needs of the Group. The facility remains subject to the existing two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA 
to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre‑ rent EBITDA) to net finance charges. A margin, determined by the results of the 
covenant tests at a given date is added to LIBOR or EURIBOR. The margin on the revised term loans can now range between 
0.95% and 2.65% (previously 1.65% and 3.15%) and the revised margin on the single revolving credit facility can range between 
0.70% and 2.40% (previously 1.40% and 2.90%). The margins currently applicable to Group are 1.65% on the term loan and 1.40% 
on the revolving credit facility. 
Cash Flow Hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow 
hedges are expected to occur.
31 December 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months
or less 
£m
6–12
months 
£m
1–2
years 
£m
2–5
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Swap 2 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Swap 3 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 4 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 5 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
Swap 6 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
1.6 (1.6) (0.7) (0.5) (0.4) – –
1 January 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months
or less 
£m
6–12
months 
£m
1–2
years 
£m
2–5
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 2 (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 3 (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) –
Swap 4 (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) –
Swap 5 (0.25) (0.25) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) (0.05) –
Swap 6 (0.25) (0.25) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) (0.05) –
(2.7) (2.7) (0.9) (0.7) (0.8) (0.3) –
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk
Following the acquisition of Cinema City the Group is subject to greater currency risk exposure. Wherever possible, overseas 
operations will fund their day‑ to‑ day working capital requirements in local currency with cash generated from operations, 
naturally hedging the currency risk exposure to the Group. Management will continually monitor the level of currency risk 
exposure, and consider hedging where appropriate. Currently the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of 
the assets and liabilities of its foreign entities to be of low materiality and no hedging has been undertaken.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed‑ rate interest‑ bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group 
to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed‑ rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt 
be restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have fixed interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates.
21. Financial Instruments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
124
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
21. Financial Instruments continued
The revolver loan, of which £130.0m (2014: £44.0m) was drawn down at the end of the period, is not hedged. At the period 
end the Group had six (2014 period end: six) interest rate swaps which hedged 100% (2014: 50%) of the Group’s variable 
rate unsecured Euro denominated term loan and 59% (2014: 50%) of the sterling denominated term loan. As a result, there 
is no impact on the income statement relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in interest rates.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest‑ bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying amount
2015 2014
Fixed rates instruments
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap) (1.6) (2.7)
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – hedged portion) (119.0) (135.0)
Finance lease liabilities (6.8) (7.4)
(127.4) (145.1)
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – unhedged portion) (180.3) (172.3)
£119.0m (2014: £135m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swaps with the balance attracting 
a variable interest rate. In 2015 the balance is the additional £50.3 term loan and the revolving facility. In 2014 the balance 
is the additional £128.3m term loan and the revolving facility.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group accounts for fixed‑ rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge accounting 
was adopted from the year ended 27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £1.9m (2014: £1.8m) or decreased equity by £1.9m 
(2014: £1.8m) for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2014: £nil). 
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss 
by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2014.
Profit or loss Equity
Effect in GBP thousands
100 bp
increase
100 bp
decrease
100 bp
increase
100 bp
decrease
31 December 2015
Variable rate instruments (3,300) 3,300 (3,300) 3,300
Interest rate swap 1,400 (1,400) 1,400 (1,400)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (1,900) 1,900 (1,900) 1,900
1 January 2015
Variable rate instruments (3,200) 3,200 (3,200) 3,200
Interest rate swap 1,400 (1,400) 1,400 (1,400)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (1,800) 1,800 (1,800) 1,800
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 125
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Financial Instruments continued
Fair Values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are 
carried in the financial statements.
Short‑ term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis 
that their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Carrying
amount 
31 December 
2015
£m
Fair value 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Carrying
amount 
1 January
2015 
£m
Fair value 
1 January
2015 
£m
Unsecured bank loans 299.3 303.8 307.1 311.8
Finance lease liabilities 6.8 6.8 6.5 6.5
Interest rate swaps 1.6 1.6 2.7 2.7
307.7 312.2 316.3 321.0
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates. The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross 
of debt issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the 
instruments based on valuations at 31 December 2015 and 1 January 2015. The volatile nature of the markets means that 
values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Fair Value Hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows:
• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
• Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
31 December 2015
Derivative financial instruments – 1.6 – 1.6
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 306.1 – 306.1
1 January 2015
Derivative financial instruments – 2.7 – 2.7
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 313.6 – 313.6
There have been no transfers between levels in 2015. No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 62.5 37.4
Bank loans 307.7 307.1
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 570.6 548.6
944.8 893.1
The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current 
gearing ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current circumstances. Ratios 
used in the monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre‑ rent EBITDA) 
to net finance charges.
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as 
the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
22. Operating Leases
Non‑ cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Less than one year 93.8 0.1 93.9 85.6 0.1 85.7
Between one and five years 352.3 0.2 352.5 324.3 0.3 324.6
More than five years 1,000.3 – 1,000.3 1,016.3 – 1,016.3
1,446.4 0.3 1,446.7 1,426.2 0.4 1,426.6
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £15.1m (2014: £5.4m).
Lease Arrangements
The Group enters into operating leases for sites in all territories in UK and Ireland and CEE and I. These leases are typically 
for 25‑35 years with rent increases and options to renew leases determined in line with local market practice in each territory. 
The key contractual terms of each lease are taken into consideration when calculating the rental charge over the lease term. 
There are no significant restrictions placed on the Group as a result of its leasing arrangements.
23. Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made:
31 December 
2015 
£m
1 January
 2015
£m
Contracted 35.0 31.9
Capital commitments at the end of the current and preceding financial period relate to new sites.
24. Related Parties
The compensation of the Directors is as follows:
Salary and
fees including 
bonus 
£000
Compensation 
for loss of
office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
52 weeks ended 31 December 2015
Total compensation for Directors 3,973 – 260 4,233
Salary and
fees including 
bonus 
£000
Compensation 
for loss of
office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
53 weeks ended 1 January 2015
Total compensation for Directors 2,341 89 252 2,682
Share‑ based compensation benefit charges for Directors was £0.9m in 2015 (2014: £0.4m). Details of the highest paid Director 
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 54.
Other Related Party Transactions
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 
10 July 2008. Revenue receivable from DCM in the 52 week period ending 31 December 2015 totalled £18.4m (2014: £15.6m) and 
as at 31 December 2015 £nil (2014: £nil) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In addition the Group has a working capital 
loan outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2014: £0.5m).
During the year the Group was charged expenses of £6.9m by companies under the ownership of Global City Holdings N.V. 
(“GCH”), considered a related party of Group as Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are Directors of both groups. 
Details of subsidiaries held by the Group can be found in Note 28.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 127
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. Business Combinations
On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc (the “Group”) announced the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City 
International N.V., which has since changed its name to Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”), by means of an acquisition of 100% 
of the shares, including all voting rights, in Cinema City Holdings B.V. (“CCH”), a subsidiary of GCH. 
Consideration Transferred
At the date of announcement, the headline consideration for the combination equated to £503m in cash and shares and 
€14.5m for the settlement of CCH bank debt. The combination was completed on 28 February 2014, at which point adjustments 
for certain provisions of the purchase agreement resulted in a fair value of consideration transferred of £510.6m.
Consideration for the transaction was settled with a mix of cash and shares. Final cash consideration of £302.6m was part 
funded by an 8 for 25 Rights Issue which completed on 14 February 2014, raising net funds of £107.2m with the residual cash 
consideration being funded within the Group’s new debt facility. The Group issued to GCH shares in Cineworld Group plc which 
were valued at £208.0m when the combination completed on 28 February 2014. The consideration shares represented 24.9% 
of the post rights issue share capital of the Group.
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred
 
£m
Cash consideration 302.6
Share consideration 208.0
Total fair value of consideration transferred 510.6
The fair value of the 65.6m ordinary shares issued to GCH as part of the consideration was based on the published share price 
of 317p at the close of business on 27 February 2014.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed
£m
Fair value of total net identifiable assets upon acquisition
Intangible assets 53.0
Property, plant and equipment: 132.8
Asset in respect of favourable lease contracts 5.2
Deferred tax assets 5.0
Other non‑ current assets 0.4
Inventory 3.5
Trade and other receivables 23.1
Cash and cash equivalents 24.1
Provision in respect of unfavourable lease contracts (10.9)
Other provisions in respect of properties and leases (5.4)
Other long‑ term liabilities (1.7)
Deferred tax liabilities (7.2)
Trade and other payables (47.7)
Total net identifiable assets 174.2
Goodwill 336.4
Consideration transferred 510.6
Property and Leases
The fair value of property, plant and equipment of £132.8m included a number of adjustments. Old cinema equipment and assets 
from non‑ trading sites which were previously held at their residual value of £10.8m were fully depreciated as the residual value 
is not expected to be realised. Assets with a net book value of £7.1m at the date of acquisition were provided for due to the fact 
that they related to loss‑ making cinemas. A further £9.9m (£10.7m stated previously on a provisional basis, based on certain 
assumptions until all the information was available) fair value write down was recognised where the site‑ specific forecasted 
cash flows (discounted by applying a country specific market participant discount rate) did not support the net book value 
of the sites’ assets at the date of acquisition.
As well as considering the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment, management also considered the lease contract 
for each of the cinemas. A provision of £3.6m was made in respect of onerous lease contracts. The provision reflects the present 
value of the future lease payments under these contracts at the date of acquisition to the extent that the contract results in the 
site becoming loss making. A smaller number of leases were identified with future contractual fixed increases in rent. A provision 
of £1.8m was recognised in respect of these contractual increases in line with IAS 17’s: “Leases” requirement to recognise the 
future minimum payments on a straight‑ line basis over the life of the lease. An exercise was conducted to compare the current 
rentals of each of the sites to the current assumed average market rental rate. Accordingly, a net provision of £5.7m was 
recognised in respect of a number of sites where the current rental rate is either above or below the assumed average market 
rental rate. An asset in respect of future deduction against rent payments in Poland of £2.4m was written‑ down by £2.0m, 
as its full recovery was doubtful.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
25. Business Combinations continued
Tax
The acquired deferred tax asset of £5.0m is stated after a fair value reduction of £0.9m of deferred tax assets which were not 
expected to be recoverable following the acquisition, and included additional tax assets of £3.5m resulting from temporary 
tax differences arising on the fair value adjustments made to acquired assets and liabilities. The deferred tax liabilities of £7.2m 
also include £5.4m in respect of temporary tax differences arising on the fair value adjustments made to acquired assets 
and liabilities.
Included within trade and other payables is an income tax liability of £3.4m recognised on acquisition. The liability reflects 
expected future tax charges in respect of tax positions open at the date of acquisition.
Other Fair Value Adjustments
Other fair value adjustments include £3.1m accelerated amortisation of distribution rights and intellectual property where 
full recovery is considered doubtful.
Prepaid debt arrangement fees in respect of Cinema City’s old financing totalling £4.8m were released following the 
extinguishment of the loans at the date of acquisition.
A provision of £5.5m was recognised in respect of open litigation and termination payments to employees for which obligations 
were in place at the date of acquisition.
Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £10.4m, of which £10.2m were expected to be collectable at the 
acquisition date and the fair value of the trade receivables recognised reflected this position.
Identifiable Intangible Assets
Acquired identifiable intangible assets include £24.4m in respect of brands, £10.3m relating to distribution relationships and 
£11.4m in respect of advertising relationships.
Management consider the residual of £337.6m to represent a number of factors including the skills and industry knowledge of 
Cinema City’s management and workforce, synergies expected to be realised post acquisition and the future value expected 
to be generated by the Group from Cinema City’s pipeline of new sites and entry into new territories. None of the goodwill 
is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss since 28 February 2014 contributed by Cinema City was 
£431.9m. Cinema City also contributed £57.2m profit before tax over the same period.
Acquisition related costs of £5.5m were charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss for the 
period ended 1 January 2015. In addition, acquisition costs of £6.1m in respect of the transaction were charged to administrative 
expenses in the income statement for the year ended 26 December 2013.
Following the business combination, GCH and its subsidiary companies (“GCH Group”) are considered to be related parties of the 
Cineworld Group as Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are directors of both groups. Transactions with related parties have 
been disclosed in Note 24.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 129
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2015
Note
31 December 
2015
£m
1 December 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 28 646.9 646.9
Current assets
Debtors 29 296.5 274.4
Cash at bank 0.1 –
296.6 274.4
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest‑ bearing loans, borrowings and other financial 
liabilities 30 (11.1) (23.2)
Other payables 31 (48.1) (53.1)
Bank overdraft (27.3) (12.5)
(86.5) (88.8)
Net current assets 210.1 185.6
Total assets less current liabilities 857.0 832.5
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest‑ bearing loans 30 (286.4) (283.9)
Net assets 570.6 548.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 32 2.7 2.6
Share premium account 32 295.7 294.9
Merger reserve 32 207.3 207.3
Profit and loss account 32 63.8 43.8
Hedging reserve 1.1 – 
Shareholders’ funds – equity 570.6 548.6
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mooky Greidinger  Israel Greidinger
Director    Director  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 31 December 2015
Note
52 week 
period ended 
31 December
2015
£m
53 week
period ended
1 January
2015
£m
Profit for the period 57.2 23.2
Dividends paid during the period 31 (39.0) (26.9)
Movements due to share‑ based compensation 31 1.8 1.4
Equity instruments issued 0.9 315.1
Movements in fair value of cashflow hedge 1.1 –
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 22.0 312.8
Opening shareholders’ funds 548.6 235.8
Closing shareholders’ funds 570.6 548.6  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 131
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
26. Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers’ Review on pages 18 to 25 and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 26 and 29. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Chief Executive Officers’ Review on pages 18 to 25. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured 
in compliance with FRS 101. An explanation of how the transition to FRS 101 has affected the reported financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows of the Company is provided in note 33.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The following exemptions 
have been taken in these financial statements:
• Business combinations – Business combinations that took place prior to transition date have not been restated.
• Share based payments – IFRS 2 is being applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that 
had not vested by first day of comparative period.
In these financial statements, the company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: 
• a Cash Flow Statement and related notes; 
• Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets; 
• Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries; 
• Disclosures in respect of capital management; 
• The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs;
• An additional balance sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective change 
in accounting policy,; and 
• Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel. 
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any 
impairment in value.
Impairment
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
of such assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds 
its recoverable value, an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by IAS 12.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an addition to fixed asset investments with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of 
the options granted is measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options 
were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except 
where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share 
appreciation rights is measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes 
in fair value recognised in profit and loss spread equally over the vesting period.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
132
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
continued
26. Accounting Policies continued
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the 
cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity‑ settled share‑ based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s 
financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed 
by the subsidiary are recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase 
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
27. Staff Numbers and Costs
The Company pays no employees. Salaries of the Directors of the Company, including Non‑ Executive Directors, as well 
as the Company Secretary are recharged to the Company from its subsidiary Cineworld Cinemas Ltd. Total salaries paid to 
Non‑Executive Directors were £509,000 (2014: £478,000). See pages 54 to 74 for further details of Directors’ emoluments.
28. Fixed Asset Investments
Company
Shares in Group 
undertakings  
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 646.9
Additions –
Balance at 31 December 2015 646.9
Net book value
At 1 January 2015 646.9
At 31 December 2015 646.9
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class % of shares held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Holding B.V. The Netherlands Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 1 Limited Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 3 Limited Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 4 Limited Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held 
Augustus 2 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine‑ UK Limited England and Wales Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company and 
cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Finance Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited England and Wales Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Exhibition Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Slough Movie Centre Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi‑ Carlton Limited Eire Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited England and Wales Property company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Elite Pictures Theatre 
(Nottingham) Limited England and Wales Non‑ trading Ordinary 100
Classic Cinemas Limited England and Wales Retail services company Ordinary 100
Computicket Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 133
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class % of shares held
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Screen Advertising Ordinary 50
Picturehouse Cinemas Limited  
(formerly City Screen Limited) England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Aberdeen) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Bath) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Brighton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Brixton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Cambridge) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Clapham) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen Developments Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Exeter) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Greenwich) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Liverpool) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Norwich) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Newman Online Limited
England and Wales
Software development and 
provider Ordinary 100
City Screen (Oxford) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Southampton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (SOA) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Stratford) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Bookings Limited England and Wales Ticket booking operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Virtual) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (York) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Entertainment Limited England and Wales Film distribution Ordinary 100
City Screen (3D) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen No. 2 Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Our Screen Ltd England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 60
Cinema Finco 2 Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Holdco (Hungary) K.F.T. Hungary Financing company Ordinary 100
I.T. Planet Advertising Ltd Israel Dormant Ordinary 100
Norma Film Limited Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema Theatres Limited Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema‑ Phone Ltd Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Limited Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
IT Magyar Cinema Moziüzemeltető és 
Filmforgalmazó K.F.T. Hungary Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Palace Cinemas Hungary K.F.T. Hungary Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Hungary K.F.T. Hungary Cinema operations Ordinary 100
New Age Cinema K.F.T. Hungary Advertising Ordinary 100
Seracus Limited Cyprus Holding company Ordinary 100
Forum 40 Fundusz Inwestycjny 
Zamkniety Poland Holding company Ordinary 100
All Job CC sp. Zoo. SJ Poland Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CC Sp. Zoo Poland Fund general partner Ordinary 100
Cinema City Poland CC sp. Zoo SJ Poland Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema City Poland spolka 
komandytowa sp. Zoo (Poland) Poland Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Poland CC Sp. Zoo SJ Poland Film distribution Ordinary 100
28. Fixed Asset Investments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
134
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
continued
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class % of shares held
I.T. Poland Development 2003 CC sp. 
Zoo SJ Poland Cinema operations Ordinary 100
New Age Media CC sp. Zoo SJ Poland Advertising Ordinary 100
Entertainment SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Film SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Hollywood SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Star SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Studio SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic Film distribution Ordinary 100
Forum Home Entertainment  
Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Romania SRL Romania Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Romania SRL Romania Film distribution Ordinary 100
New Age Media Romania SRL Romania Advertising Ordinary 100
29. Debtors
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 296.5 274.4
30. Interest-Bearing Loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities
31 December
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 285.4 283.9
Interest rate swaps 1.0 –
286.4 283.9
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 10.5 23.2
Interest rate swaps 0.6 –
11.1 23.2
For details of interest bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities see Note 17.
 
31. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
31 December 
2015
£m
1 January
2015
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 46.5 48.9
Accruals 1.6 4.2
48.1 53.1
Fair Values
Fair value disclosures for debtors and creditors have not been prepared on the basis that their carrying amount is a reasonable 
approximation to fair value.
28. Fixed Asset Investments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 135
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. Share Capital and Reserves
Share 
capital  
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2015 2.6 294.9 – 207.3 43.8 548.6
Profit for the period – – – – 57.2 57.2
Dividends paid during the period – – – – (39.0) (39.0)
Movements due to share‑ based compensation – – – – 1.8 1.8
Equity instruments issued 0.1 0.8 – – 0.9
Movements in fair value of cashflow hedge – – 1.1 – – 1.1
At 31 December 2015 2.7 295.7 1.1 207.3 63.8 570.6
For details of share issue see Note 20.
Share premium is stated net of share issue costs.
Equity instruments granted of £1.4m represents the £1.6m fair value of share options granted to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings less £0.2m in respect of cash dividends paid to option holders during the year. This element of the profit and 
loss reserve is not distributable.
33. Share-Based Payments
See Note 18 to the Group financial statements.
34. Explanation of transition to FRS 101 from UK GAAP
As stated in note 1, these are the Company’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with FRS 101. The accounting 
policies set out in note 25 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 1 January 2015 and in the preparation 
of an opening FRS 101 balance sheet at 27 December 2014 (the Company’s date of transition).
In preparing its FRS 101 balance sheet, the Company has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements prepared 
in accordance with its old basis of accounting (UK GAAP). An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to FRS 101 has 
affected the Company’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows is set out in the following tables and the notes 
that accompany the tables.
31 December 2015  
£m
1 January 2015  
£m
UK GAAP
Effect of 
transition FRS 101 UK GAAP
Effect of 
transition FRS 101
Fixed assets
Investments 646.9 – 646.9 646.9 – 646.9
Current assets
Debtors 296.5 – 296.5 274.4 – 274.4
Cash at bank 0.1 – 0.1 – – –
296.6 – 296.6 274.4 – 274.4
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest‑ bearing loans, borrowings and other financial 
liabilities (11.1) – (11.1) (23.2) – (23.2)
Other payables (48.1) – (48.1) (53.1) – (53.1)
Bank overdraft (27.3) – (27.3) (12.5) – (12.5)
(86.5) – (86.5) (88.8) – (88.8)
Net current assets 210.1 – 210.1 185.6 – 185.6
Total assets less current liabilities 857.0 – 857.0 832.5 – 832.5
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest‑ bearing loans (286.4) – (286.4) (283.9) – (283.9)
Net assets 570.6 – 570.6 548.6 – 548.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 2.6 – 2.6 2.6 – 2.6
Share premium account 295.8 – 295.8 294.9 – 294.9
Merger reserve 207.3 – 207.3 207.3 – 207.3
Profit and loss account 63.8 – 63.8 43.8 – 43.8
Hedging reserve 1.1 – 1.1 – – –
Shareholders’ funds – equity 570.6 – 570.6 548.6 – 548.6
There were no material adjustments arising from the transition to FRS 101.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
136
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Shareholder Information
as at 31 December 2015
Directors
A H Bloom (Non‑ Executive Director and Chairman)
M Greidinger (Chief Executive Officer)
I Greidinger (Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Interim Chief Financial Officer)
R Senat  (Non‑ Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
J Southern (Non‑ Executive Director)
M King  (Non‑ Executive Director)
S Rosenblum (Non‑ Executive Director)
A Samuelsson (Non‑ Executive Director)
A Kornasiewicz (Non‑ Executive Director)
Head Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Telephone Number
020 8987 5000
Website
www.cineworldplc.com
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registered Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Final Dividend – 2015
Announcement 10 March 2016
Ex Dividend 9 June 2016
Record Date 10 June 2016
Payment Date 7 July 2016
Auditor
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Joint Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Legal Advisers to the Company
Slaughter and May
1 Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY Upcoming blockbusters
for 2016
Star Wars: Rogue One
December
Star Trek: Beyond
July
Alice Through  
The Looking Glass 
May
Batman V Superman: 
Dawn of Justice
March
Independence Day: 
Resurgence
June
Zootropolis 
March
Captain America: Civil War
April
Warcraft
June
X-Men: Apocalypse
July
Suicide Squad
August
The Jungle Book
April
Finding Dory
July
Ice Age: Collision Course 
July
The Secret Life Of Pets
July
Fantastic Beasts & Where  
To Find Them
August
The BFG
July Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworldplc.com
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
