 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Clarkson PLC
Annual Report 2015 Clarksons is the world’s 
leading provider of integrated 
shipping services.
Through our ‘best in class’ service offer we 
bring unique industry connections and expertise 
to our ever-wider and increasingly diverse client 
base across all sectors of the shipping and 
offshore industries, providing unrivalled 
professionalism and support in the markets  
in which they operate.
Integrity
Clarksons is a business built  
on long-term relationships and 
trust. Our clients and other 
stakeholders have always 
known that we will ‘do the right 
thing’. We say what we mean 
and stand by those words, 
taking responsibility for our 
actions at all times.
Our values are: 
Excellence
Second best has no place  
at Clarksons. We aim to excel 
in every way – helping our 
clients achieve their objectives, 
no matter how challenging,  
by applying our unrivalled 
breadth, reach, experience  
and expertise to each project. 
We deliver innovative solutions 
to complex problems and  
our challenge is to exceed  
our clients’ expectations at  
all times, on every aspect  
of every project.
Fairness
Every person and business  
we encounter is treated equally. 
We are fair to our clients, in  
the terms we propose and  
the level of service each party 
can expect, and fair to our  
own people. As a PLC, we 
consistently reinvest profits  
in training and development, 
even through the downturns, 
supporting every member  
of Clarksons to fulfil  
their potential.
Transparency
Like many of our clients,  
we are a publicly listed 
company and we share  
many of the same drivers, 
challenges and concerns.  
Our PLC status requires us  
to adhere to high standards  
of governance throughout  
the company.
Please visit  
www.clarksons.com  
for more information www.clarksons.com 1
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Strategic report
2  Overview
3  Group at a glance
4  Financial highlights and chairman’s review 
6  Our strategy
8  Our business model
10  Chief executive’s review
14  Business review 
30  Financial review
32  Risk management
34  Corporate and social responsibility
Governance
38 Board of directors
40 Corporate governance statement
43 Directors’ remuneration report
58 Audit committee report
60 Directors’ report
61 Directors’ responsibilities statement
62 Independent auditors’ report (consolidated)
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement
68 Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income
69 Consolidated balance sheet
70 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
71 Consolidated cash flow statement
72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
105 Independent auditors’ report (parent company)
107 Parent company balance sheet
108 Parent company statement of changes in equity
109 Parent company cash flow statement
110 Notes to the parent company financial statements
Other information
125 Glossary
128 Five year financial summary
 IBC Principal trading offices
Clarksons’ 164 year heritage 
means that we’ve seen 
challenging markets before – 
indeed we’ve survived and 
thrived, investing in the 
opportunities that these  
markets present to support  
long-term growth
Challenge Opportunity
Please see  
our financial 
highlights  
for more 
information
Revenue
£301.8m
2014: £237.9m
Underlying profit before taxation
£50.5m
2014: £33.8m
Reported profit before taxation
£31.8m
2014: £25.2m
Dividend per share
62p
2014: 60p
Contents 2 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Major dry cargo
Minor dry cargo
Crude oil
Oil products
Chemicals
Liqueed gas
Containers
Other dry cargo
World population
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
Billion people / billion tonnes
0
Strategic report
Shipping powers the 
global economy
Ships transport raw materials and finished goods into 
homes, plants and factories worldwide. Around 85% 
of world trade is carried by sea – equivalent to more 
than a tonne of cargo for every individual on the 
planet, every year.
200%
expected increase 
in US LPG export 
capacity between 
2013-2017
4.2bn
tonnes of dry  
cargo seaborne 
trade in 2015
1.7bn
tonnes of 
containerised 
cargo moved  
in 2015
140m
tonnes of 
production under 
construction, LNG 
trade to increase 
by 50% by 2020
2.9bn
tonnes of oil  
and oil products 
transported  
in 2015 by deep 
sea tankers
2,500
different grades  
of cargo 
transported  
by chemical  
tankers globally
World trade and population 
growth 1990 – 2015
Our global  
reach www.clarksons.com 3
Please see  
our business 
review on 
pages 14-27 
for more 
information
As the world’s leading provider 
of integrated shipping services, 
we work with our clients to 
achieve their business objectives 
across all aspects of this 
complex and dynamic industry.
6
continents
46
offices
20
countries
1,379
employees
164
years
We are an integral part in the 
transport of world trade...
The strategic report on pages 2 to 37 was approved  
by the board on 4 March 2016, and signed on its behalf by: 
 
Jeff Woyda  
Chief financial officer and chief operating officer  With an industry-leading range of products and services  
that spans the maritime, offshore and financial markets, we 
are uniquely placed to deliver the best, bespoke commercial 
solutions to all our clients – large or small. We are the ‘best  
in class’ intermediary across all aspects of the shipping and 
offshore sectors.
Clarksons’ shipbroking  
services are unrivalled –  
in terms of the number and  
calibre of our brokers, our 
breadth of market coverage, 
geographical spread and  
depth of intelligence resources.
Containers
Tankers
Dry cargo
Gas
LNG
Offshore
Petrochemical gas
Securities
Project finance
Debt and leasing 
solutions
Port and agency 
services
Freight forwarding
Tools and supplies
Property services
Offshore and energy
Shipping and trade
Valuations
Our services What we do Revenue Sector
From full investment banking 
services to project finance and 
tailored debt solutions, we help 
our clients fund transactions and 
conclude deals that would often 
be impossible via other, more 
traditional routes.
Our teams provide the highest 
levels of support with 24/7 
attendance at a wide range  
of strategically located ports  
in the UK and Egypt, offering 
port services support, agency, 
freight forwarding, supplies  
and tools for the marine and 
offshore industries.
Sale and purchase
Shortsea
Specialised 
products
Market analysis
Futures*
Broking
Financial
Support
Research
Clarksons Research is the market 
leader in providing timely and 
authoritative information on all 
aspects of shipping. We provide 
data on over 100,000 vessels  
and 6,000 offshore fields, 20,000 
companies and 600 shipyards  
as well as extensive trade and 
commercial data and over 
100,000 time series.
US$365.3m (£239.5m)
2015 2014 2013 2012
80% of 2015 revenue
238.8
259.4
313.2
365.3
US$43.8m (£28.7m)
2015 2014 2013 2012
10% of 2015 revenue
1.8 9.7
14.3
43.8
£22.5m
2015 2014 2013 2012
7% of 2015 revenue
16.0 16.4
28.6
22.5
£11.1m
2015 2014 2013 2012
3% of 2015 revenue
9.2
9.7
10.4
11.1
...with unique breadth
*   Futures is now reported under broking, having previously been included  
under financial. Comparatives have been restated to reflect this. Strategic report
Financial highlights
Revenue 
US$460.4m
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
313.3
280.7
310.0
391.7
460.4
Proﬁt before taxation* 
£50.5m
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
32.2
20.0
25.1
33.8
50.5
Earnings per share* 
121.9p
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
121.5
74.8
98.0
134.2
121.9
Revenue 
£301.8m
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
194.6
176.2
198.0
237.9
301.8
Proﬁt before taxation** 
£31.8m
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
35.4
22.9
22.0
25.2
31.8
Dividend per share 
62p
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
50
51
56
60
62
* before exceptional items and acquisition costs
** after exceptional items and acquisition costs
Revenue
£301.8m
Underlying profit before 
taxation
£50.5m
Reported profit before 
taxation
£31.8m
Underlying earnings  
per share
121.9p
Reported earnings  
per share
68.2p
Dividend per share
62p 4 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report
Through the acquisition we have 
combined two leading businesses  
and highly experienced and proven 
management teams to create a fully 
integrated offer across shipping and 
offshore, broking and banking.
Chairman’s review www.clarksons.com 5
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
People
The most important core strength of the group is the quality 
of our people, who constitute the heart of everything we do, 
and I am delighted to confirm that the integration process 
has gone well. The combined team now fields experts 
across the globe in every part of our business: shipping  
and offshore, banking and broking, research and support. 
Board
Following completion of the Platou acquisition, and as 
highlighted in my report last year, Peter M. Anker and Birger 
Nergaard joined the board. Their contribution and breadth  
of experience has been of great value.
During the course of the year we were delighted to 
announce the appointment of Jeff Woyda as chief operating 
officer of the group in addition to his role as chief financial 
officer. Jeff joined Clarksons in 2006 and has played a major 
role in the growth and development of the business in the 
last nine years. The board believes this appointment better 
reflects Jeff’s remit and role within the business. 
Outlook
The challenges witnessed across the global shipping 
markets have continued into 2016. The macro-economic 
environment remains very uncertain and as such we do  
not anticipate any changes to our markets in the near term.
Despite this backdrop, growth remains a central plank  
of our strategy. Market turbulence continues to drive a flight 
to quality which, as the market leader, we have benefited 
from. It has also encouraged the consolidation we have 
seen in the industry in recent years and of which we have 
been at the forefront. Over the course of 2015 we have 
taken significant strides to strengthen the fully integrated 
Clarksons’ offer with the very best people supported by 
valued research and unique technology, positioning our 
business for the long-term.
Overview
Whilst shipping and offshore markets have seen some  
good opportunities during 2015, overall there have  
been unprecedented challenges, so we are very pleased 
Clarksons has once again delivered a robust performance. 
Key to this has been sticking to our strategy of ‘best in 
class’ service offer, underpinned by unique breadth, global 
reach and the expertise of our people. Without losing sight 
of the really important day-to-day service, difficult times 
often require new solutions. The integrated tool box now 
available to clients, combined with real execution expertise, 
has been key to these results and is also essential for the 
way forward. 
On 2 February 2015 we completed the acquisition of  
RS Platou ASA (Platou), a leading international broker and 
investment bank, focused on the offshore and shipping 
markets. Through this acquisition we have combined two 
leading businesses and highly experienced and proven 
management teams to create a fully integrated offer across 
shipping and offshore, broking and banking. The board 
firmly believes that this deal sets new standards in the 
broking industry. The integration of our two businesses has 
continued at great pace over the course of the year and  
is now effectively complete. On behalf of the board I would 
like to congratulate the entire team across the business  
on this significant achievement. 
Results
The results in 2015 include 11 months’ contribution  
from Platou. 
Underlying profit before taxation was £50.5m (2014: 
£33.8m). Profit before taxation was £31.8m (2014: £25.2m). 
Underlying earnings per share was 121.9p (2014: 134.2p) 
resulting in basic earnings per share of 68.2p (2014: 91.9p).
Dividend
Clarksons has increased the dividend every year since  
2002 in line with its progressive dividend policy, and in 2015 
again Clarksons intends to raise the dividend paid to our 
shareholders. The board is recommending a final dividend of 
40p (2014: 39p). The interim dividend was 22p (2014: 21p), 
resulting in a 3% increase in the total dividend for the year  
to 62p (2014: 60p). The dividend will be payable on 3 June 
2016 to shareholders on the register at 20 May 2016, 
subject to shareholder approval.
Please see our business review on 
pages 14-27 for more information 6 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Our strategy
Breadth
We provide a wide  
range of integrated 
services
With an industry-leading range of 
products and services that spans  
the maritime and financial markets, 
we are uniquely placed to deliver the 
best, bespoke commercial solutions 
to all our clients – large or small.
We are the ‘best in class’ intermediary 
across every sector of maritime trade 
– and no single company is our lead 
competitor in more than one market.
Reach
We support our clients  
in all the world’s  
key regions
Ours is a global presence, enabling  
us to meet client needs wherever  
and whenever they arise. With  
46 offices in 20 countries, we share 
understanding, culture, IT platforms 
and high standards of corporate 
governance across our business –  
a fine example of how joined-up 
thinking can deliver a truly local 
service, worldwide.
Our mission is to grow value for 
our shareholders, building on  
our strong financial performance 
and supporting our progressive 
dividend policy by maintaining 
and developing our position as 
the world’s leading shipping 
services group.
Our purpose  
to maintain and 
extend our industry 
leadership...
...is underpinned by 
our key drivers...
...and reinforced by 
our values
Integrity Excellence www.clarksons.com 7
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Understanding
We build long-term 
relationships with  
clients
From oil majors, raw material 
producers and other multinationals  
to long-established shipowning 
families, our client base is second  
to none. We have worked with  
many of these clients for generations, 
building a deep understanding of their 
businesses and providing the services 
that have helped them to prosper.
Trust
We are the trusted 
source of essential 
shipping information
The industry’s leading providers  
of data and market intelligence on  
the shipping and offshore industries, 
our research team is the largest 
commercially-led unit in the maritime 
world. Our databases track over 
100,000 ships and 6,000 offshore 
fields and our Shipping Intelligence 
Network is viewed more than three 
million times per year.
People
We empower everybody  
at Clarksons to fulfil 
their potential
We want Clarksons to be recognised 
as the place where the best people 
are empowered to do their best work. 
We hire the brightest talents and give 
them the tools to shine – including 
leading edge IT systems, high quality 
training and development as well as 
financial reward.
Our proven and robust strategy is focused  
on the development of our ‘best in class’ fully 
integrated service offer across the global shipping 
and offshore, broking and banking, research and 
support markets. We have delivered a consistently 
profitable and cash generative performance which 
bears comparison, not only in the shipping sector 
but across the FTSE.
See inside 
front cover  
for more 
information  
on our values
Fairness Transparency 8 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Our business model
Clarksons’ business model provides an unrivalled  
level of service and information that creates value  
from being the heart of global shipping…  
...to enabling global trade.
Financial 
We aim to reward 
shareholders with 
dividends whilst 
maintaining a good 
financial standing and 
strong balance sheet.
Financial 
We have no bank 
borrowings and have 
cash available to  
fund the growth of  
the business.
Intellectual 
By ensuring that our 
clients receive the best 
information through  
a range of innovative 
technological solutions, 
we provide them with the 
tools they need to make 
key business decisions.
Intellectual 
Our research team  
is acknowledged as  
the market leader in 
providing validated and 
accurate data across  
all shipping sectors.  
We continually invest in 
both research staff and 
the technology we use  
to capture and deliver  
our market intelligence.
People 
Our skills and knowledge 
ensure that world trade 
continues to flow in the 
most effective manner, 
that countries receive  
the raw materials to build 
and develop and people 
have the food and goods 
they need.
People 
We aim to recruit and 
retain the best in the 
industry. Our people  
are one of our most 
important assets across 
all parts of the business 
from information 
providers to those  
who deal with clients.
Client relationships
We encourage a responsible 
approach to business,  
and foster close long-term  
mutually beneficial 
relationships with our 
customers.
Client relationships
We work ethically and build 
strong client relationships 
where our knowledge  
builds trust.
Trade 
We enable global trade.  
An essential part of the 
supply chain, we have  
the necessary skills and 
information at our fingertips 
to ensure we know what 
commodities need moving 
to where and when and  
the best solutions for this.
Trade 
The world relies upon  
the movement of trade – 
from raw materials, 
foodstuffs and household 
goods. It’s simply what 
keeps the world moving 
and developing.
Our outputs
Our key inputs
62p
dividend  
per share
1,379
employees
14,000
vessel positions 
updated every 
minute
5,234
multinational 
companies  
as clients
100,000+
vessels in the 
world fleet www.clarksons.com 9
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Assets
Freight
Cargo
Owners
Financial Support
Research
Global trade
Broking shipping 
Broking offshore 10 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Chief executive’s review
Challenge and opportunity have been our watchwords  
in 2015. The global shipping and offshore markets have 
faced severe challenges throughout the course of the year 
as the shift in oil and other commodity prices, coupled  
with the macro-economic environment, gave rise to a 
consequential change in the demand/supply balance in 
many market sub-sectors. Whilst these dynamics have 
regularly made global news headlines in 2015 and their 
impact has undoubtedly been felt by all connected to the 
sector, we must remember that ours is an industry which 
has experienced unparalleled market volatility over the 
years. At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus on 
developing ‘best in class’ client service, coupled with our 
unique product breadth and global reach, has allowed  
us to face these headwinds again and continue to invest  
in our business, ensuring we are positioned for future 
opportunity in whichever marine market it shows.
Despite the turbulent market environment, we have 
remained focused on our strategy for long-term growth  
and at the start of 2015 we were delighted to announce  
the completion of the transformational acquisition of  
RS Platou ASA (Platou) which has taken our capability and 
client offer to a new level. Both businesses are incredibly 
complementary with very little overlap in terms of service 
offer and geographic reach. The pace of integration has 
been good and over the course of the year we have 
successfully integrated our two businesses. Where each 
company had operations in the same city; Oslo, New York, 
Singapore and Dubai, we have brought together our teams 
into one office. We now have international reach across  
20 countries through 46 offices, underpinning our ability  
to provide clients with invaluable global reach and insight  
at a local level. 
As our business stands today our truly integrated service 
spans broking, financial, support and research in all the  
key global shipping and offshore sectors and across all 
areas of financing; public equity, private equity, debt capital 
markets, M&A, restructuring project finance and bank debt 
advisory. During the year we completed the rebranding of 
our broking and financial services operations as Clarksons 
Platou to reflect the strength of both brands in their 
respective marketplaces. This has further enhanced our 
‘best in class’ position as we are now a market leader  
in each of our operations. 
In the multi-cyclical shipping markets, this breadth of 
product offer is vital as our performance in 2015 has shown. 
The dry cargo markets have remained severely depressed, 
reflecting the slowdown in Chinese economic output, and 
the low oil price continues to put offshore operators under 
significant pressure. However, in contrast, the tankers, 
specialised products and gas markets have all performed 
well and the Clarksons teams have been at the forefront of 
market activity, once again taking increased market share. 
As we highlighted over the course of the year, activity  
levels in the maritime capital markets have been negatively 
impacted. These markets became increasingly difficult in the 
second half of 2015 and volumes across Clarksons Platou 
Securities were substantially down on 2014. However, our 
teams have worked hard to maintain their leading positions 
for capital raising in the energy and maritime industries and 
completed a significant proportion of the corporate activity 
which took place in the sector. It is encouraging to see that 
even in these very difficult markets we have still been able to 
leverage our product portfolio and work closely with clients 
from our broking and support businesses, supporting them 
on the execution of their overall strategies. 
Our strong client relationships have been built through  
many years of being the market-leading provider. In tighter, 
more difficult markets there is often a move to work with the 
teams who have the expertise, market understanding and 
placing power to execute in the most difficult of markets and 
can fully support clients across all their service requirements. 
Research and analysis continue to play a crucial role  
in underpinning our full service client offer. We are the 
industry’s leading provider of data and market intelligence 
on the shipping and offshore industries and our trusted 
research team is by far the largest commercially-led unit  
in the maritime world. Despite the challenging markets,  
the increasing strength of our research business reflects  
the importance we and our clients place on this valuable 
market insight. 
Our long-standing focus and investment in technology  
has also ensured that the wealth of information across  
our business can be shared globally, further strengthening 
the quality of the offer and services that we can provide  
to our clients on a local basis. This is evident throughout  
all of our offices where open plan design and technology 
infrastructure is designed to facilitate the sharing of 
knowledge and expertise across both our different business 
divisions and global network to ensure a totally integrated 
and consistent global offer. 
We are a people business. The quality of the people in  
our business is exceptional and the integration of the  
Platou team has strengthened that further. The ‘Can Do’ 
attitude of our combined team, their professionalism, 
dedication, commitment and sheer determination has been 
remarkable and allowed us to seize opportunities even in 
difficult markets and I would like to thank each and every 
one of them for their hard work over the course of the year. 
As we look forward to 2016, the market outlook remains 
suppressed and the challenges in the dry cargo and 
offshore markets continue to dominate overall sentiment. 
However, our business model has proven to be robust  
and the strategic advances and investments we have 
continued to make ensure that we are ‘fit for the future’.  
As we continue to see building blocks for the creation  
of healthier shipping markets, we feel best placed to 
capitalise on new opportunities.
Strategic report www.clarksons.com 11
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic 
focus on developing ‘best in class’ client 
service, coupled with our unique product 
breadth and global reach, has allowed us  
to face these headwinds again and continue 
to invest in our business, ensuring we are 
positioned for future opportunity. Breadth Depth We offer a truly integrated service spanning 
broking, financial, support and research in all 
the key global shipping and offshore sectors  
and across all areas of financing; public equity, 
private equity, debt capital markets, project 
finance and bank debt advisory. We are the  
‘best in class’ intermediary across every sector 
of maritime trade and no single company is our 
lead competitor in more than one market.
Darin Wong
Sale and purchase broker  
Singapore 14 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Dry cargo
The dry cargo market endured one of its most difficult years 
in 2015, experiencing lows not seen since the mid-1980s. 
The Baltic Dry Index (BDI) established a new all-time low  
in February 2015 which has since dropped further in 2016. 
Charter rates across all four main vessel segments hovered 
around cash operating costs, causing a substantial decline 
in fleet valuations and exerting pressure on shipowner 
balance sheets. 
The main cause of the weakness has been the slowdown in 
industrial activity within China, which has had a pronounced 
impact on the seaborne trade of dry commodities. China 
represents nearly 40% of the major bulk trade of iron ore, 
coal and grain and accounts for two-thirds of the iron ore 
trade alone. In 2015 total global dry cargo trade is estimated 
to have remained flat with levels from 2014, a material 
change from the 5-7% growth rate seen during the previous 
four years. 
The dry cargo fleet grew by a net 3% in 2015 after taking 
into account a relatively high 4-5% of scrapping. Charter 
rates remained at low levels, irrespective of this scrapping, 
as the lack of any demand growth meant additional 
newbuilding tonnage could not be absorbed. 
Against incredibly challenging trading conditions, the 
Clarksons Platou dry cargo team have worked hard to 
increase fixture volumes and build market share. Following 
the smooth and successful integration, we have further 
strengthened our combined team to ensure we have  
the right people to compete in what is a very challenging 
marketplace. Encouragingly we have also seen greater 
interaction between our teams across our expanded office 
network and this has been evidenced by the increasing 
number of deals co-broked between offices.
Revenue
US$365.3m
2014: US$313.2m
Revenue
£239.5m
2014: £190.2m
Segment result
£49.1m
2014: £34.6m
Forward order 
book for 2016
US$151m*
At 31 December 2014 
for 2015: US$110m*
Dry cargo ships on the water 
> 10,600
*  Directors’ best estimate of deliverable FOB
Business review
Broking www.clarksons.com 15
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Containers
2015 was another difficult year for the container shipping 
market, with volumes growing 2-3% compared to over  
5% growth during 2014. Although boxship charter market 
earnings registered increases in the first half of the year, the 
second half saw earnings trend back down to historically 
low levels.
In early 2015, the more positive charter market was driven 
by limited supply side growth in the small and medium  
sized containership fleets. The key driver of the deterioration 
in the charter rate environment in the second half of 2015, 
however, was the significant slowdown in demand growth. 
In addition, sentiment weakened with regard to charterers’ 
vessel demand, and idle capacity increased once again, 
reaching around 7% of the fleet late in the year. 
The box freight market across 2015 was not only volatile  
but also subject to severe downward pressure, significantly 
impacting liner company performance. At the end of 
December 2015, the spot freight rate on the key Far 
East-Europe trade stood at US$313/TEU, 73% lower  
than the 2014 full year average, with rates having hit levels 
around historical lows on more than one occasion during 
the year. 
On the demand side, the outlook has softened considerably. 
Global container trade growth is estimated at 2.5% in 2015, 
significantly down on original expectations. Volumes on the 
key Far East-Europe trade have contracted on the back of 
weak European economic performance, reduced Russian 
volumes and cutbacks in inventory stocking. Meanwhile, 
growth in intra-Asian volumes has slowed to around 3%  
due to slowing economic expansion in China and weaker 
economic progress elsewhere in Asia. Global container 
trade is expected to expand by around 4% in 2016, but  
this is clearly subject to downside risk.
On the supply side, the fully cellular fleet stood at 19.7 
million TEU at the end of 2015 having grown by 8.1% in  
the full year. The order book of 3.8 million TEU represented 
19% of fleet capacity at the end of 2015.
In this challenging trading environment the Clarksons Platou 
container team leveraged its truly global network to drive 
fixing volumes. Following the integration with our colleagues 
from Platou, we have seen greater interaction with our 
expanded securities business which has broadened our 
offer to our corporate clients. We have also strengthened 
the team further and expanded into Japan.
Tankers
The tanker market in 2015 had its best year since 2008. 
VLCC spot earnings averaged US$60,000/day, above the 
2009-2014 average of US$23,000/day, and comparable  
to the 2003-2008 ‘bull market’ average of US$68,000/day. 
There are several key drivers behind this market strength, 
some of which are expected to continue for 2016. Lower oil 
prices have catalysed demand with global oil consumption 
growing at an estimated 2% compared to 1% on average 
annually during the previous 10 years. Oil consumption in 
China is estimated to have grown over 5% in 2015, despite 
the general slowdown in its economy, as lower oil prices 
appear to have had a positive impact on demand. 
Other key factors supporting the tanker market have been 
higher refining margins, increased long-haul trade from the 
Middle East and Atlantic Basin, a persistent contango in the 
oil futures curve supporting inventory-building and a lack of 
meaningful tonnage additions. 
Crude tanker demand is estimated to have grown by  
4-5% during 2015 compared to fleet growth of just 1-2%, 
causing a substantial increase in fleet utilisation. The clean 
products market saw demand increase by an estimated 6%, 
in line with the 6% supply growth. The combination of higher 
refining margins worldwide and new refinery capacity in the 
Middle East and Asia supported product carrier earnings. 
Stronger crude tanker rates helped drive product carrier 
rates higher—especially considering the switching capability 
between the crude aframax and clean aframax LR2 classes. 
LR2s averaged US$30,000/day in 2015, double the 
earnings average seen since the financial crisis while MRs 
earned US$21,500/day (also double the annual averages 
since 2008).
Global containership capacity 
expansion in 2015
Growth in crude tanker fleet
>8% 2.2% 16 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Specialised products
Despite volatile commodity markets and an uncertain 
economic outlook, we have seen overall improvements  
in seaborne cargo volumes within the specialised  
products industry. 
Whilst the Clarksons Platou specialised products Spot 
Chemicals Index recorded an average decrease of 2% 
year-on-year and the Spot Edible Oils Index posted a  
gain over the same period of just 5%, the average price  
of 380 CST fuel oil has also fallen by 49%. The drop in the 
price of crude oil and the effect on marine fuel pricing has 
significantly reduced the cost base for our industry, with 
those owners operating predominantly on the spot charter 
markets gaining the most immediate benefit. The interlinked 
period charter markets experienced an increased appetite 
from market participants as they sought to gain access to 
the improved returns on offer. As a result, average one year 
time charter rates for benchmark units increased by 11%  
in 2015 when compared to 2014. 
The fall in crude oil price has had numerous ramifications  
for chemical producers around the globe. Those producers 
using naphtha as a feedstock, primarily in Europe and Asia, 
have experienced lower feedstock costs but also lower 
end-product prices and therefore typically maintained their 
margins. Other key regions, such as the US, have seen their 
competitive advantage eroded somewhat as input costs  
for shale gas fed crackers have remained largely unchanged 
over the period. Whilst these shifts have resulted in some 
projects stalling in the planning phase, the region remains 
extremely competitive on a global scale and there have been 
a number of new project announcements in recent times. 
The fleet of available specialised products tankers has  
seen moderate growth in 2015 of 4% to 47.9m dwt when 
compared to 2014. The end of year scheduled order book 
has now reduced from 14.6% of the in-service fleet by  
dwt in 2014 to 12.3% at the end of 2015. There have been 
pockets of fresh contracting activity, but in many cases  
this is now for vessels which are part of strategic tonnage 
replacement programmes by established operators, rather 
than new entrants into the marketplace. 
The Clarksons Platou specialised products team has had  
a busy year and 2015 has seen us develop and expand  
our service offer in this market. The integration of the  
Platou team has played a key role in this with their strong 
relationships bringing new growth opportunities. Over the 
course of the year we also strengthened the team further 
with key hires.
New investment in US chemical 
projects as a result of shale gas
US$145bn
Business review continued 
Broking continued
Tankers continued
There has been a sizable increase in long-haul trade  
as OPEC has publicly sought to maintain and increase  
its market presence. Looking ahead there are signs of 
production risk in the US, with non-OPEC supply in 2016 
projected to decline for the first time since 2008. This is 
supportive of continued long-haul movements on both 
crude tankers and product carriers. Potential output 
declines also position the US as a growing importer  
of oil after several years of declining imports. 
Crude vessel additions are projected to increase 
meaningfully in 2016 as the fleet is expected to grow by 
5-6% compared to 1-2% for 2015. Product carrier fleet 
growth is expected at 5%, below the 6% for 2015. While 
crude tanker supply growth increases in 2016, demand is 
projected to maintain pace with 2015 and thus the market 
outlook remains positive. 
International agreements allowing for potentially higher Iran 
oil volumes are expected to lend some support while there 
are increasing geo-political risks particularly within the 
Middle East following the recent tensions between Saudi 
Arabia and Iran. It is early to provide a proper assessment 
but this is a development requiring close attention.
The Clarksons Platou tanker team has been at the forefront 
of all activity across the sector, leveraging its leading market 
position, unrivalled global market coverage and scale. www.clarksons.com 17
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Gas
The biggest factor underpinning the strength of the  
market was the continued growth in US export volumes 
which ran at very close to terminal capacity levels to hit 
20.8m mt from a base of 14.7m mt in 2014. Throughput  
of existing facilities was expanded as new terminal  
capacity commenced production. 
Having broken previous market highs in 2014, the VLGC 
sector enjoyed another strong year. The continued fall in  
oil prices and bunkers served to further boost earnings  
with time charter equivalent earnings averaging over 
US$2.7m a month compared with US$2.3m last year. 
Despite the addition of 35 newbuildings during the course  
of the year, strong growth in LPG trade volumes combined 
with an increase in the percentage share of US exports 
headed for Asia (most notably China) continued to support 
tonne-mile demand growth. This strength was largely 
mirrored in the sizes below, particularly the LGCs.
The midsizes continued to benefit from the growth in LPG 
export volumes despite trade growth in ammonia proving 
fairly unsensational in 2015. The combination of minimal 
deliveries (three in the year), rising US exports and growing 
import demand in the Med and South America helped 
continue to underpin midsize requirements. The handysize 
sector, however, did not fare so well as there have been 
more additions, both in number and cubic size, to the fleet. 
Smaller sized gas carriers have not performed as well as the 
larger units as the sector has been hit by the dual effects of 
fleet growth and a slowdown in trade. The exception to this 
has been the smaller semi-refrigerated and ethylene sectors 
which have performed better. 
The Clarksons Platou gas team continued to grow and 
increase market share during 2015.
LNG
The expectation at the start of 2015 was for global LNG 
demand to grow by around 6% on the back of the new 
supply coming from Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
However, a decline in production from Yemen and Algeria 
resulted in a modest growth of approximately 2%. This 
meant that trade volume remained almost unchanged  
since 2011 in the range of 240-250 mt of LNG.
With the northern hemisphere experiencing its third 
consecutive mild winter, the consumer demand for heating 
and power generation remained low, adversely impacting 
LNG imports to key markets in the Far East. Japan and 
Korea, by far the largest importers of LNG, maintained very 
high inventories throughout the year and have therefore 
been all but absent from the spot market. 
Nevertheless, the market has by no means been static.  
A number of new importing markets emerged in 2015 which 
were actively seeking new supply and thus impacted the 
dynamics in the spot shipping and trading marketplaces. 
Floating storage and regasification units played a major role 
in unlocking these new markets, which proved the centres 
for demand growth in 2015.
The spot market once again saw increased activity of 
approximately 30% from 2014 levels and 80% from 2013 
levels. The decline in LNG imports in the Far East and the 
lower tonne-mile demand due to the closer proximity of  
new supply to the consumers, combined with the tonnage 
oversupply, pushed charter rates down. The spot market for 
modern tri-fuel carriers averaged approximately US$36,000/
day, while steam powered LNG carriers on average earned 
approximately US$26,000/day (decline of approximately 
50% from 2014 average in both segments). Modern 
tonnage dominated the spot market, with approximately 
75% of fixtures concluded with modern tri-fuel tonnage, 
whilst steam turbine ships competed in a limited number  
of trades. 
In 2015, the fleet expanded by approximately 7% with 
around a third of this expansion being speculative, adding 
pressure on the charter market. However, most of the 
speculative tonnage ordered in the 2011/2012 period has 
now been delivered, which should start easing pressure  
on rates going forward. Around 35 vessels are scheduled  
for delivery in 2016, of which only three remain without  
a charter.
Against this backdrop, the Clarksons Platou LNG team  
have worked hard to significantly increase volumes,  
despite the poor freight rates, and have taken market share 
in the sector.
Seaborne trade in 2015 
c.79m mt
Spot fixtures concluded in 2015
30% 18 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Newbuilding
The Clarksons Platou newbuilding team performed well  
in 2015. Integration post-merger brought a number of key 
opportunities and the enlarged team delivered growth in 
new market sectors whilst at the same time continuing  
to drive heritage relationships.
Ordering volume globally fell year-on-year by some 30%. 
This was partly in response to an incredibly challenging dry 
cargo market but also a reduced appetite from the capital 
markets backed players that were responsible for driving 
significant volume into the global order book over the past 
two years.
Key industrial and end user relationships within the group 
were, however, capitalised upon and a number of notable 
projects were concluded. Clarksons Platou placed 25%  
of the global LPG order book in 2015, by capitalising on 
established project structures with major participants, and 
the continuing development of key private relationships. 
Similarly in the tanker segments, the group was the major 
service provider to the prominent Korean builders.
Looking forward, we expect that 2016 will continue to be 
challenging as regulatory shifts put pressure on shipyards  
to manage their cost base in an environment that is 
becoming increasingly price sensitive. It is likely that the 
market will need some time to adjust and re-establish 
fundamentals, but the team is well positioned to capitalise 
on all opportunities that present themselves.
Sale and purchase
Secondhand
With dry cargo freight rates in the doldrums and the  
tanker markets (both crude and clean) continuing at firm 
levels, the secondhand sale and purchase markets were 
challenging for wet and dry over the course of 2015 but  
for differing reasons. 
The complete disconnect between the performance of  
the wet and dry sale and purchase markets in all sizes is 
historically very unusual. Tonnage oversupply caused pain  
in dry cargo whilst at the same time the collapsing price  
of crude oil drove tanker rates back to historic highs.
Surprisingly this has translated into more sale and purchase 
activity within dry cargo than perhaps we might have 
expected. Poor charter rates coincided with traditional 
shipping banks coming under increased pressure to reduce 
their loan books and private equity seemingly unwilling to 
continue to plug the gap. The result in some instances has 
been forced decisions, as so-called ‘distressed sellers’ have 
had to exit their investments at any price or risk having their 
vessels taken by their lenders, who are becoming more 
active as the weeks go by.
Some of our more traditional, private family-owned clients 
have seen this as an opportunity to purchase modern 
assets at knockdown prices and so volatility has produced 
liquidity and those with cash reserves have been leveraging 
their strength at the expense of those without. We have 
been able to conclude a good number of transactions, albeit 
at reduced price levels, and have enjoyed growth in market 
share. There is no doubt that the increased level of 
information we have enjoyed from our new merged team 
has supported this. 
In addition, 2015 saw a dramatic increase in the levels of 
tonnage being scrapped. Our market share in this sector 
has increased due to our specialist demolition desk where 
revenues have doubled.
For the tanker markets it has been more difficult as the  
lack of pressure on sellers, due to improved earnings,  
has resulted in them asking for higher prices throughout  
the year. These have become ever harder to achieve,  
with buyers questioning how long they might be able to 
enjoy these very positive earnings. Long-term uncertainty 
has had a negative effect on activity levels as buyers  
found themselves unable to find period employment  
beyond two years at anything close to the spot market. 
Nevertheless, we have once again concluded some  
very high value transactions.
Shipyard deliveries in 2015 
96.8m dwt
Reported value of secondhand vessel 
sales in 2015
US$23.6bn
Business review continued 
Broking continued www.clarksons.com 19
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Offshore
2015 was a challenging year for the offshore market  
as charter and spot rates continued to fall. 
The year started with falling utilisation and increasing 
availability of vessels as contracts came to an end.  
This trend continued and was exacerbated as contracts 
were terminated and renegotiated. Oil companies were 
aiming for 20-30% cost reduction across the board and 
continue to be relentless in their pursuit of these cost 
savings. Those national oil companies that are managing  
to maintain activity levels are more than offset by those 
state-owned companies which are struggling and super 
majors who are cutting back.
Towards the end of the year, the reduced oil price increased 
demand and this trend is expected to continue for 2016. 
Whilst much of the growth is being met by increased 
onshore and shallow water offshore production by Saudi 
Arabia and US shale gas, it is not clear how much further 
this can continue. If Iran becomes a significant supplier, it 
may create further demand for replacement offshore assets.
On the supply side, utilisation rates fell as increasing 
numbers of rigs and OSVs have been stacked up.  
As a result, we saw multiple bidders and as many as  
30 rigs being offered for one job, implying further downward 
pressure on rates. The subsequent financial cost of not 
having regular revenues on assets is resulting in rig and  
OSV players having to restructure, to the potential benefit  
of the securities team. There are also some signs that 
owners are being more realistic about asset prices which 
may create opportunities for sale and purchase transactions.
Although not immune to the challenging markets, the 
Clarksons Platou offshore team has fared comparatively 
well. We have worked hard to further build and strengthen 
our significant share of the OSV chartering market and  
have seen good sale and purchase activity levels, albeit  
at comparatively low values. The strength of our teams 
coupled with our high quality analysis and research has 
positioned us to take advantage of the flight to quality in  
our markets and wherever there have been signs of activity 
the scale of our team and placing power has meant we  
have been at the forefront. 
Futures
2015 started with levels very close to historic lows.  
The cape index opened at US$3,580 and, despite a brief 
move upwards in late January, maintained an average over 
the first half of the year below US$5,000. The panamaxes 
similarly averaged below US$5,000 for the same period 
whilst the supramaxes provided the only surprise in 
performing best over the first six months of all sizes at  
close to US$6,600. 
Q3 provided some relief from the negativity of the first half 
and values on capes rose to nearly US$19,500 in August, 
whilst panamaxes peaked at US$9,403 and supramaxes at 
US$9,770. The anticipated spike in Q4 failed to materialise 
and the cape Q4 index declined steadily to end the year  
at US$4,028. Average value for the year on capes was 
US$6,996 whilst panamaxes averaged US$5,560 and 
supramaxes averaged US$6,965.
Volumes on freight swaps were generally similar to  
2014 but the options market proved more interesting  
with volumes growing 68%.
Disappointing though the market was in 2015, we  
continued to build market share in the options market and 
offset some of the difficulties in the swaps market, where  
we continue to have a strong market share in all sizes.
Iron ore market volumes grew and ended the year at 
844,119,300 mt (up 70.32% on 2014). Values deteriorated 
steadily with the year starting at US$71.20 for TSI 62%  
and ending the year at US$42.90. By comparison, 2014 
values fell from an open of US$135 to a close of US$71.20. 
Our swaps volume in this growing area has improved and 
we have recently entered the iron ore options market where 
we expect further growth.
In these challenging markets we continue to see a  
flight to quality as clients want reassurance that they  
are working with expert teams at highly credible and 
sustainable brokerages. 
Offshore proportion of the world’s  
oil production
Freight options growth in 2015
25% 68% Our team boasts some of  
the most experienced and 
knowledgeable people in the 
industry. We have invested 
heavily in research and 
technology to ensure they have 
the best tools at hand to enable 
them to offer the best client 
service, wherever they may  
be across our global network. Experts Expertise
Hans Lund
Securities credit analyst –  
Clarksons Platou Securities AS 
Oslo 22 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Revenue
US$43.8m
2014: US$14.3m
Revenue
£28.7m
2014: £8.7m
Segment result
£1.2m profit
2014: £1.9m loss
Securities
The global stock markets have been severely depressed 
over the course of 2015 reflecting the tumbling oil price and 
broader global economic uncertainty. Investors’ confidence 
by the end of 2015 was drained. Developments across 
various asset classes in the US and European financial 
markets were largely influenced by international factors, 
including a weakening global growth outlook and falling 
commodity prices. 
The first half of 2015 was dedicated to integrating the  
former Clarkson Capital Markets (CCM) with the Platou 
markets group, establishing the Clarksons Platou securities 
group located in Oslo, New York and Houston. Our enlarged 
team has a strong sales force covering investors globally 
focused on energy and maritime industries, in addition to  
a strong research team providing industry leading research 
to our customers. 
Corporate finance revenues in 2015 were driven by equity 
capital markets transactions, however the markets became 
increasingly difficult during the second half. Although 
volumes were substantially down from 2014, the securities 
group has strong market share in our core segments. We 
have maintained our leading position in raising capital for the 
energy and maritime industries, raising a total of US$1bn for 
companies within our core sectors. We have also continued 
to hold a very strong position in global shipping transactions 
working with the most active issuers listed in the US. On  
the fixed income side, securities has been one of the most 
active restructuring and divestment advisors, a position 
maintained during 2015. Commission from the secondary 
trading of equities has also increased compared to 2014.
Companies covered globally  
within maritime sectors
Business review continued
Financial 
180 www.clarksons.com 23
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Debt and leasing solutions
2015 started with a wave of optimism from the debt and 
leasing markets. Many of the financial institutions that had 
slowed their lending in the wake of the financial crisis and 
enhanced regulatory pressure were showing signs of using 
their balance sheets with renewed vigour. However, as the 
year moved on, the traditional debt and leasing structures 
began to slow again and by the third quarter there was a 
very noticeable caution around the market. By the end of 
the year the traditional lenders were essentially inactive and 
looking into 2016, the outlook remains tight. 
Against this challenging trading environment, we delivered  
a satisfactory trading performance, whilst rebranding our 
business as Clarksons Platou Debt and Leasing Solutions. 
The enlarged team focused on continuing the development 
of our excellent relations with alternative shipping lenders 
and Asia Pacific banks (in particular China). The new and 
enhanced relationships are allowing the desk to provide 
viable funding solutions to our clients and add further  
value to the Clarksons Platou platform.
Project finance
The first half of 2015 was an active year in shipping project 
finance, with special focus on the tanker and feeder 
container segments. In the dry cargo market, the recent 
drop in secondhand and vessel resale values has once 
again created interesting opportunities for asset play 
projects that can be financed using 100% equity, as today’s 
charter rates are not high enough to cover debt servicing  
as well as operating expenses.
The traditional shipping banks’ appetite to look at new 
transactions has slowed down noticeably, as their exposure 
in offshore, container and dry cargo is challenging loan-to-
values and earnings in the spot market are only enough  
to cover operating costs. In projects with newer vessels, 
long underlying time charters or bareboat charters to large 
owners, debt financing for projects is still available. 
Over the course of 2015 we have grown our team with a 
new project sales desk designated to focus on increasing 
both our investor base and the liquidity of shares in the 
secondhand market within shipping/offshore and real estate. 
Our real estate team had a very busy year in 2015 and 
delivered a strong performance. The Nordic real estate 
market reached all-time highs in the first half of the year, and 
yields on prime assets are under pressure from institutional 
funds seeking stable dividends in stable macro-economies 
like the Nordic. 
Foreign investors have had an increasing appetite for  
the Norwegian market over recent years, and we saw this 
trend continue in 2015 with the year ending with record high 
transaction volumes. For the first time the Norwegian market 
outperformed the Swedish market, that has traditionally 
been one of the top five in Europe.
Marine finance loans in 2015 
US$104.7bn
2015 total KS market transaction 
volume (shipping)
US$462m Our extensive geographic 
coverage spans 20 countries 
through 46 offices, underpinning 
our ability to provide clients  
with invaluable global support  
at a local level. Global Local
Innes Cameron
Director – Port Services 
Aberdeen 26 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
We have seen a growing confidence in offshore renewables, 
and an increased level of activity in preparation for new wind 
farm projects. CPS is well positioned for securing contracts 
in this sector during 2016.
Our newest acquisition in Belfast had an excellent year, 
performing well above expectations and supporting  
several oil rig and offshore projects in conjunction with their 
traditional bulk business. For 2016, we anticipate several 
opportunities for this success to continue.
Gibb Tools and Opex Industrial Supplies (Opex)
Gibb Tools and Opex had a weaker year than originally 
anticipated due to the low oil price and a market reluctance 
to invest, which affected our supply business. 
However, our team has focused on preparations for the 
merger of these two supply-based businesses into a single 
headquarters in Aberdeen. 
Stevedoring
Our stevedoring operation in Ipswich had a slow start to  
the year caused by markedly reduced grain export volumes. 
This was exacerbated by the weak euro making shortsea 
destinations unattractive. In contrast, the second half of the 
year saw much higher volumes giving us strong results for 
the year overall. 
We won further customer support over the course of 2015, 
allowing us to expand our operations and take additional 
storage from the Ipswich Port Authority. We now have 
storage capacity for approximately 40,000 mt of bulk cargo.
Freight forwarding
Despite a good start to the year, our freight forwarding 
operation in Great Yarmouth suffered from lower volumes  
in the second half, primarily caused by lower activity  
levels from our major oil rig owners. As with other areas  
of our business, this is linked to reduced operations in  
the North Sea. 
Property services
Included within the support segment are the revenues  
and profits derived from property services. 
In 2014, the group signed a 15 year lease for a new  
flagship head office at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine 
Docks, commencing from the last quarter of 2014. The 
group moved into this new head office on 20 July 2015. 
During the year, our teams in Oslo and Singapore moved 
into new premises, having signed leases for 12 and 5  
years respectively.
The group also owns a number of freehold properties which 
are either owner-occupied or let on a full commercial rent.
Revenue
£22.5m
2014: £28.6m
Segment result
£3.3m
2014: £4.0m
East Anglian grain shipping  
exporters using Clarksons’  
stevedoring facilities in 2015
Port services
2015 was a good year for all our port services activities 
linked to conventional bulk shipping, although this has  
been heavily tempered by the downturn in the oil and  
gas market, which has negatively impacted the overall 
performance for the year. We continue to explore avenues 
away from oil and gas, whilst ensuring we are in a strong 
position to react when this market shows signs of recovery. 
Agency
The southern Clarkson Port Services (CPS) offices 
performed well in 2015. Although shipments of grain were 
slow in the first half, they increased significantly in the 
second half, giving a strong result for the year. We have 
seen a return to our traditional mix of short and deep sea 
activity, and have benefited from taking over grain export 
agency business at the Tilbury grain terminal. Imports of 
animal feed have remained steady, supporting our Ipswich 
and west coast UK offices.
In contrast, the performance of our northern CPS offices 
has continued to be impacted by the weak oil price  
which has depressed industry activity in this region.
Coal import volumes have remained low, and the  
indication is that they will continue at this level in 2016  
due to the closure or reduced operations of several coal 
fired power stations. Biomass has now largely replaced  
our coal volumes, with a notable new contract being 
awarded in Liverpool.
Business review continued 
Support
<90% www.clarksons.com 27
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Research
The majority of Clarksons Research sales are derived from 
annuity revenue, with high customer retention levels. The 
client base is broad and diversified with excellent market 
penetration across the financial, asset owning, insurance, 
equipment supplier, governmental, private equity, energy, 
commodity, shipyard, fabrication and oil service sectors. 
There is also broad geographical spread and a strong 
position in expanding markets, with sales to the Asia Pacific 
region growing by over 24% in 2015. We continue to 
broaden our geographic footprint, with the expansion of 
operations in both Shanghai and Singapore during 2015.
Research derived its income from the following  
principal areas:
Digital
Sales from digital products increased by an encouraging  
9% during the year. Our flagship maritime commercial 
database, Shipping Intelligence Network, has benefited from 
the roll out of a major upgrade during 2015 which has been 
well received by our client base. There was robust growth from 
our market-leading online vessel register, World Fleet Register, 
with further innovations to the system planned for 2016.  
Our digital offering across offshore, including World Offshore 
Register, continues to gain traction and our position as the 
leading provider of offshore data to the insurance market has 
been consolidated. Clarksons Research continues to develop 
new proprietary data areas within their offering including the 
utilisation of AIS data, additional company information, trade 
and commodity flows, the tracking of capital market activity, 
machinery and environmental packages on board ships and 
subsea and pipeline infrastructure.
Publications
Clarksons Research produces weekly, monthly, quarterly  
and annual publications, registers and maps, available both in 
print and within our digital offering. In 2015 our well-established 
shipping range was supplemented by new publications 
covering global trade and the capital markets. Our 
comprehensive offshore offering, including Offshore Drilling  
Rig Monthly and Offshore Support Vessel Monthly, continues  
to gain traction. Publications remain an important aspect  
of our overall offering, besides generating important 
provenance and profile. 
Services
Clarkson Research continues to expand its provision of 
customer service contracts to a range of large corporate 
and institutional clients in both the shipping and offshore 
industries. A specialist team concentrates on managing 
retainers and providing bespoke research, consultancy, 
valuations and data for banks, shipyards, fabricators, 
engineering companies, insurers, governments, asset 
owners and other corporates. Clarkson Research continues 
to be a leading provider of data to clients, producing capital 
market prospectuses across a range of issuance types and 
exchanges. Clarksons Valuations has been expanded and 
remains the leading provider of asset valuation services to 
the industry, including to many of the world’s leading ship 
finance banks and public listed shipping companies, and 
performed particularly strongly across 2015. 
Revenue
£11.1m
2014: £10.4m
Segment result
£3.4m
2014: £3.5m
Research revenues grew strongly in 2015, reaching  
£11.1m (2014: £10.4m) and continuing a consistent 
long-term growth profile. 
Despite challenging markets, underlying sales grew by 7% 
during the year, supported by demand for our market-leading 
shipping products, growth of offshore digital sales and a strong 
performance by our service contract and valuation business. 
Across 2015 there has also been a trend towards annuity 
based digital and service contract business, which has 
increased the amount of overall revenue being deferred. 
Clarksons Research is respected worldwide as a market-
leading provider of authoritative intelligence across shipping, 
trade, offshore and energy. Activities focus primarily on the 
collection, validation, management and analysis of integrated 
data about the shipping and offshore markets. Including wide 
ranging technical and commercial information in a fully 
integrated and relational format, the coverage and depth of  
the shipping research and trade database continues to expand 
and now includes coverage on over 100,000 vessels, over 
40,000 companies, over 25,000 machinery models, over 600 
active shipyards and fabricators, over 600,000 fixtures and 
over 100,000 time series. 
The offshore and energy database provides comprehensive 
coverage of all offshore fields, projects, platforms, subsea 
infrastructure, rigs, support vessels and construction vessels, 
wholly integrated within a Geographical Information System. 
Clarksons Research continues to invest heavily to expand its 
wide ranging proprietary database, to develop and enhance  
its product offering and to support and promote the Clarksons 
group across the global shipping and offshore industries.  
The provision of data to the expanded Clarksons group was 
also enhanced during 2015. Clarkson Research Services  
is the largest commercially-led 
research unit in the maritime 
world, providing historical 
intelligence through registers, 
databases, periodicals and on  
a more bespoke level through 
validation and consulting.  
Not only do we have a research 
team dedicated to publishing and 
consulting, but also dedicated 
analysts within every commercial 
team across the enlarged group. 
This quality and depth of 
research is unique and central  
to the group’s strategy. Ideas Insights
Henriette van Niekerk
Director – Dry cargo analysis 
London 30 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Financial review
The group has delivered revenue growth 
of 27% to £301.8m and reported profit 
before taxation growth of 26% for 2015. 
We remain strongly cash generative and 
the balance sheet quality continues to 
improve, supporting long-term growth 
and investment in our business.
Results
The increase in group revenue of 27% to £301.8m  
(2014: £237.9m) reflects a consistent performance within 
the underlying business from higher transactional volumes, 
and is augmented by the inclusion of 11 months of trading 
from Platou, following completion of the acquisition in 
February 2015. Administrative expenses increased by 27% 
to £242.0m (2014: £191.3m), however post-acquisition  
cost synergies arising from integration will amount to an 
annualised benefit of some £4.0m. An additional interim 
dividend of £1.4m was received from The Baltic Exchange  
in December 2015. Underlying profit before taxation was 
£50.5m (2014: £33.8m), which, after acquisition costs of 
£16.2m (2014: £7.0m) and £2.5m (2014: £1.6m) of 
exceptional items, resulted in a reported profit before 
taxation of £31.8m (2014: £25.2m).
Please see our financial highlights  
for more information www.clarksons.com 31
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Balance sheet effects of the  
Platou acquisition
The acquisition of the Platou group was completed  
during the first quarter. The balance sheet now combines 
the assets and liabilities of both Clarksons and Platou.  
The purchase price allocation has confirmed that a major 
proportion of the acquisition price, adjusted to the fair value 
at closing, relates to goodwill. A number of specifically 
identifiable intangible assets amounting to £21.9m were 
recognised on acquisition and are subject to amortisation 
over a two to four year period. Long-term interest-bearing 
bank loans and all bank overdrafts held by Platou have  
been repaid. Deferred consideration, in the form of vendor 
loan notes, is held on the balance sheet, repayable in two 
instalments in June 2016 and June 2017. Overall, the net 
assets of the group have increased by £173.6m. Merger 
relief was applied to the new shares issued by Clarkson 
PLC, resulting in an increase in other reserves.
Acquisition costs
Acquisition costs of £16.2m (2014: £7.0m) are shown in  
the income statement. The increase over 2014 reflects the 
costs incurred in respect of the acquisition of Platou and 
amortisation of the separately identifiable intangible assets. 
Estimated acquisition costs for 2016 will amount to £8.2m.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise the additional rent and 
associated costs for Commodity Quay in London and  
the onerous lease provision for an office in Singapore.  
Also included are costs associated with the restructuring 
and integration of the two businesses. The release of the 
unutilised portion of the St. Magnus House dilapidation 
provision has been treated as exceptional other income. 
Taxation
The group’s effective tax rate, before exceptional  
items and acquisition costs, was 24.9% (2014: 25.9%).  
After exceptional items and acquisition costs, the rate  
was 29.8% (2014: 32.0%), which reflects the disallowable 
nature of certain acquisition costs.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Underlying basic EPS was 121.9p (2014: 134.2p).  
After exceptional items and acquisition costs, the basic  
EPS was 68.2p (2014: 91.9p).
Dividends
The board is recommending a final dividend of 40p  
(2014: 39p), which will be paid on 3 June 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
20 May 2016. The interim dividend was 22p (2014: 21p) 
which, subject to shareholder approval, would give a  
total dividend of 62p (2014: 60p). In taking its decision,  
the board took into consideration the 2015 performance, 
the strength of the group’s balance sheet and its ability to 
generate cash and the forward order book. The dividend  
is covered 1.1 times by basic EPS (2014: 1.5 times).
Foreign exchange
The average sterling exchange rate during 2015 was 
US$1.53 (2014: US$1.65). At 31 December 2015 the  
spot rate was US$1.47 (2014: US$1.56).
Cash and borrowings
The group remains cash generative, ending the year with 
cash balances of £168.4m (2014: £152.9m). A further 
£5.4m (2014: £25.3m) was held in short-term deposit 
accounts, classified as current investments on the balance 
sheet. After deducting amounts accrued for performance-
related bonuses, which are generally paid during the first half 
of 2016, net cash and available funds amounted to £91.6m 
(2014: £92.3m).
Balance sheet
Net assets at 31 December 2015 were £340.9m  
(2014: £167.3m). The balance sheet remains strong with  
net current assets and investments exceeding non-current 
liabilities (excluding pension provisions) by £36.2m  
(2014: £113.8m). The overall provision for impairment  
of trade receivables was £12.3m (2014: £9.9m) and the 
underlying US dollar balance increased by US$2.7m. The 
group’s pension schemes have a combined liability before 
deferred tax of £4.1m (2014: £10.3m). This decrease is a 
result of the discount rate increasing from 3.4% to 3.8%, 
which is partially offset by the addition of the Stewarts 
scheme in the year.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The KPIs used in the management of the business are  
all financial in nature and included on pages 3, 4 and 14. 
These include revenue, profit before taxation, earnings per 
share and the forward order book.
Net assets 
£340.9m
2015 2014 2013
137.7
167.3
340.9
Dividend per share 
62p
2015 2014 2013
56
60
62
Underlying proﬁt before taxation
£50.5m
2015 2014 2013
25.1
33.8
50.5 32 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Risk management
As the world’s leading provider of integrated shipping 
services, we have a clear strategy to maintain and extend 
our industry leadership. It is imperative that the integrity  
and reputation of the Clarksons brand is preserved through 
effective risk management, which underpins the successful 
delivery of this strategy. The breadth of products and 
services that we offer to our clients all over the world span 
the maritime and financial markets and has the potential  
to expose us to a number of business specific risks.
Details of the board and audit committee’s responsibilities 
are shown on pages 40 to 42. 
Risk management approach
Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of  
the company’s business activities, and is undertaken using a 
practical and flexible framework which provides a consistent 
and sustained approach to risk evaluation.
Our risk assessment is formed in stages:
1. Identify the risks facing the group, analysed by  
business sector;
2. Assess the likelihood of each risk;
3. Evaluate the impact on the group over different aspects  
of the business;
4. Determine the strength and adequacy of the controls 
operating over the risk;
5. Assess the effect of any mitigating procedures;
6. Monitor the above periodically.
Our objective is to maintain an embedded control  
approach which is instilled in our employees from induction. 
This is done through an integration of culture and 
compliance where our objectives and values are clearly 
communicated and our training, systems, processes and 
internal controls are developed in accordance with our risk 
management model. 
Principal risk How we manage risk Commentary
Strategic – Our priority is to ensure strategic decisions achieve our objectives
Failure to achieve  
strategic objectives
Our decisions are founded on experience,  
due diligence and external expert advisors  
where necessary.
The strategic moves we have made have been  
into core business areas where we have a good level  
of understanding and built up knowledge.
The Platou acquisition was a transformational deal, a 
unique opportunity to combine two leading businesses, 
generating significant organic revenue and margin 
growth potential and creating shareholder value over 
the medium-term.
Our strong balance sheet ensures we are well placed  
to make further investments as and when they arise.
Our robust risk management assessment process is 
dynamic, incorporating changes in our strategies and  
the external risk drivers in the global market in which we 
operate. It continues to be enhanced and developed to 
ensure it meets the needs of the group.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the 
board has assessed the prospects of the group over a longer period than 
the 12 months that has been the focus of the ‘going concern’ provision. 
In carrying out their assessment, the directors have considered the resilience 
of the group (with reference to its current position, prospects and strategy), 
the board’s risk appetite and the group’s principal risks and the effectiveness 
of mitigating actions. This robust assessment considers the potential impact 
of the group’s principal risks on its strategy, business model, future 
operational and financial performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
In determining the period over which to provide its viability statement, the 
board took into consideration revenues, cash flows, funding requirements, 
profits, long-term time charters, the average construction period of 
newbuilding contracts, triennial valuations of pension schemes and the 
majority of the forward order book. The board concluded that a period  
of three years was appropriate.
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, the directors confirm 
that they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three 
year period ending 31 December 2018.
Going concern
The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on the going concern basis, as explained in note 2.1.
Please see our audit committee report  
on pages 58 to 59 for more information
Review of principal risks
The following risks are not exhaustive, but rather a  
summary of those principal risks which have the potential  
to materially affect the achievement of the group’s strategic 
objectives and impact its financial performance, reputation 
and brand integrity. www.clarksons.com 33
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Principal risk How we manage risk Commentary
Reputational – We remain focused on maintaining and constantly strengthening our relationships with stakeholders
Negative perception  
of the group as a result  
of employee conduct
Our commitment to training and an ethical work 
environment continues to promote high standards, 
consistency and a unified approach.
Investment in compliance, quality assurance and  
legal functions act to ensure that best practices  
are applied throughout the group.
The group has built an enviable reputation over the  
past 164 years, and the protection of the Clarksons 
name is fundamental to our position as a market leader.
No events arose during the year which adversely 
affected the reputation of the group.
Operational – Our reputation is built on strong execution of service
Loss of regulatory licence Suitably trained and qualified management  
across all regulated businesses are supported by 
compliance officers in London, New York and Oslo. 
Additionally we have an internal audit function for  
our securities business in Norway. External advisors  
are regularly consulted.
The proportion of the business covered by regulation 
has increased and we have entered new jurisdictions  
in our regulatory reporting requirements.
All licences were maintained throughout the year.
Financial loss or 
operational disruption 
caused by a cyber event
The group’s IT processes include penetration  
testing, a variety of security access controls and 
business continuity planning.
Continued investment in physical controls and 
increased awareness through regular internal 
communications has enabled us to identify and  
avoid actual cyber events.
We have identified a number of attempts to  
access or compromise our systems during the  
year. None of these attempts have been successful.
Challenging market 
conditions
We are well diversified in the breadth of our global 
offering across multi-cyclical shipping markets  
putting us in the best possible position to mitigate 
downturns in specific markets.
Our results show the effectiveness of our strategy  
and business model against a backdrop of volatility  
in our markets, particularly those affected by falling 
commodity prices.
People – Our people are the assets of our business and are essential to our success
Loss of key personnel Competitive remuneration, extensive tools for  
trade, a good working environment and good career 
opportunities help us to retain staff. Teamwork  
on deals is actively encouraged. 
Cross-training, succession planning and  
documentation of key procedures is carried  
out to minimise the impact of losing personnel.
Our relative position in volatile markets and overall 
trading performance makes us appealing as an employer.
Following the integration of the two businesses, 
significant synergies have been achieved. No key 
members of staff left to join a competitor and we 
continue to make significant hires.
Financial – We seek to maintain the strength of our balance sheet and results
Adverse movements in 
foreign exchange rates
The group has policies for hedging currency  
exposures, including forward sale of US dollar  
revenues. We also sell US dollars on the spot  
market to meet local currency expenditure.
We continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling 
balances and asset exposures by currency.
During the year, the group has applied its hedging  
policy consistently. Details of the outstanding forward 
contracts is given in note 26.
Adverse financial 
commitments relating  
to pensions
All defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
We have in-house and outsourced global pension 
experts to help manage the schemes in place,  
including monitoring fund manager performance.
Diversification of the investment funds which hold  
our schemes’ assets reduces the impact of fund 
performance volatility.
Regular review of pension fund liability to ensure any 
deficit is appropriately forecast and future funding 
requirements can be planned.
The group has three defined benefit schemes. 
Full details of the position at the year-end are set  
out in note 22.
Financial loss arising  
from a failure of a client  
to meet its obligations
We regularly monitor both local and global client  
debt levels using information from a range of sources.
There were no unexpected losses arising from  
a client failure during the year.
The trade receivables at the year-end relate  
to a considerable number of clients, with limited 
concentration of exposure to the group. 34 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
As the world’s leading provider of integrated shipping 
services, Clarksons has an enviable, hard-earned reputation 
for integrity, excellence, fairness and transparency built over 
164 years of servicing the international maritime markets. 
These four key principles form our corporate values,  
detailed in the group’s Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics, which are delivered by our employees in their 
dealings with our clients, investors, colleagues and 
suppliers. This approach is mirrored by our commitment  
to corporate responsibility – aligning responsible business 
practices with a sustainable business model to deliver best 
value to all our stakeholders.
Our people
Our people are our business. Without enthusiastic and 
engaged employees we simply could not do our job 
delivering the highest quality service to our clients. 
Employees are expected to use good judgement and  
act in the best interests of Clarksons and our clients  
at all times so that we conduct our business in an ethical, 
honest and professional manner wherever we operate.
We aim to create a working culture that is inclusive for  
all and to maintain high standards and good employee 
relations. We believe that it is vital to look after our 
employees by making sure that they have a safe and 
suitable workplace. High standards of health and safety  
are maintained and designed to minimise the risk of  
injury and ill health of all employees and any other parties  
involved in the conduct of our business operations.
Clarksons is an employer that depends on the maintenance 
of its reputation and market lead by entrusting it to more 
than 1,370 highly motivated employees around the world. 
For decades we have evolved a system in which 
advancement is based on individual ability or achievement. 
We have a wide range of different people with different life 
experiences and perspectives working throughout our  
global organisation. Our employees have a right to fair 
practices and behaviour in the workplace. They are 
protected from discriminatory issues and have a fair and 
equal chance to develop within the group. We seek to 
appoint the best candidate for each and every vacancy.  
All appointments within the group are based on merit, and 
candidates are considered against fair and objective criteria. 
We give full and fair consideration to all applications for 
employment and ensure that any reasonable adjustments 
are made to our interviewing processes, job content or 
workplace to accommodate an individual’s relevant merits  
and capabilities.
As at 4 March 2016, there were eight directors of  
Clarkson PLC. Of the 1,379 employees within the group  
at 31 December 2015, 361 or 26% were female (299 or 
28% in 2014). There were 271 managers within the group, 
of which 29 or 11% were female which is an increase of  
nine or 2% year-on-year on 2014. From new hires made  
in 2015, 30% were female. 
Corporate and  
social responsibility
We are a global business with an international workforce 
and the combination of languages, cultures and ideas brings 
a high level of diversity and cultural richness. Clarksons’ 
employees represent 63 nationalities globally and in a 
reflection of this cultural diversity, our management team 
represents 23 of those nationalities. Our international 
presence also means that we can offer our employees the 
opportunity for mobility and development throughout the 
Clarksons group globally.
Management team by nationality
Australia
China
Denmark
Germany
Greece
India
Norway
Singapore
United Kingdom
USA
Others
Clarksons has undergone significant growth over the last 
decade, including the Platou acquisition in 2015, which 
means that many staff have been employed for less than  
ten years. Nevertheless, we are proud that 20% of our 
workforce have been with the organisation for more than  
ten years and we now have up to five generations working 
together. This demonstrates that there is continuity of 
approach throughout the organisation and an understanding 
of people.
Participation in the company’s ShareSave scheme  
allows UK employees to become more engaged in the 
company’s performance, and offers the opportunity  
on maturity of the scheme, for employees to become 
shareholders in the company and to participate in its 
continued growth and success.
Communicating with employees is an important priority.  
Our management structure means that any employee  
has direct access to the senior management team, with 
divisional managing directors working side-by-side with  
the trainees they recruit. All employees have access to our 
intranet, which contains current news, details of company 
policies and other relevant information. Employees are 
encouraged to attend briefings about the company’s 
business and Clarkson News, the company’s in-house 
magazine, provides current and former employees with 
information about the company’s operations and colleagues 
around the world. Employees also have access to the 
company’s financial and regulatory publications, which are 
available on the company’s corporate website. 
Nationalities represented across  
the group
63 www.clarksons.com 35
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Our investment in our people
We want to be recognised as the place where people are 
empowered to do their best work. We hire the brightest 
talents and give them the tools to shine – including leading 
edge IT systems, high quality training and development as 
well as financial reward. Clarksons is committed to investing 
in talent retention and staff development, ensuring that as 
we grow (both organically and through acquisition) the right 
people are identified and developed. 
Employees are encouraged to maximise their career potential 
at Clarksons. We hold training events and seminars throughout 
our global offices. These seminars and events are led by 
in-house experts and/or external speakers, covering a wide 
range of topics on either an area of Clarksons’ business or  
an area of personal development. All employees, regardless  
of department, are encouraged to attend these seminars as  
they provide a forum for interested individuals to further their 
knowledge of a subject.
Our training blends the collective skilled counsel  
and guidance of our staff with the tutelage of external 
experts from all areas of the shipping, trading and 
commodity markets.
Our Trainee Broker Scheme is open to graduates and 
non-graduates. Trainees can expect excellent support  
and tuition so that they can acquire the necessary skills  
to perform at the highest level.
In addition to our Trainee Broker Scheme, we offer a number 
of internships to students each year. Through long-standing 
relationships with schools and academies we are able to 
offer regular work experience opportunities in our broking 
and research divisions.
Successful development of future leaders requires a talent pool 
from which to select the best individuals. Clarksons operates  
a prominent recruitment process which attracts in excess of 
2,500 applications annually from graduates and non-graduates 
who wish to be considered for fast-track development roles. 
Our own analysis has determined that the ratio of male to 
female applicants is circa 70:30. 
New hires by gender in 2015
Male 70%
Female 30%
Female executives with an interest in senior executive roles in 
shipping related businesses are in short supply, which is why 
Clarksons has taken steps to improve gender balance. We 
know that organisations globally are challenged with a lack of 
women in leadership positions. This is particularly true of the 
shipping industry which has historically been male dominated. 
However, shipping is the quintessential global industry and its 
multiculturalism has always been a benefit to career-minded 
individuals. Steps taken to tackle gender balance include the 
continued development of female role models within the 
business and identification of talented women in junior roles for 
future leadership. Of the nine high potential graduates recruited 
between 2014 - 2015 for the purpose of development into 
future leaders, four are female. 
Our local community  
and charity support
Clarksons has a well-established history of supporting the 
communities in which its global offices are based as well as 
projects further afield. We fulfil our commitment to corporate 
responsibility in a number of ways including sponsorship 
and patronage of museums and sporting events, supporting 
employees’ endeavours through sponsorship, supporting 
those employees who wish to volunteer their time and with 
direct donations to individual charities.
Clarksons’ support has continued in 2015, where special 
attention has focused particularly on: 
 – Maritime causes;
 – Children’s charities; and 
 – Charities representing health issues. 
During the year, donations were made to:
Marie Curie – UK
Founded more than 65 years ago, Marie Curie provides  
care and support for people living with any terminal illness 
and their families. Each year they care for more than 40,000 
people across the UK. Marie Curie offers hospice care, 
in-home nursing and support, both via its Support Line and 
online community. 
Clarksons chose to support Marie Curie in a number  
of ways during the year, following the loss of a colleague  
in early 2015.
As well as a direct donation from the company, individual 
employees have completed their own challenges. Three 
Gibbs’ Tools employees participated in the Ben Nevis 
Challenge and raised the Clarksons flag at the summit. 36 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
Peace Matunda School & Orphanage – Tanzania
Tanzania is listed by the UN as one of the 50 poorest and 
most underdeveloped countries in the world. Founded in 
2005, the Peace Matunda School is a primary day school 
for over 200 children. The Peace Matunda Orphanage 
provides a home and positive family environment for 24 
permanent residential children who are without the support 
of family. Clarksons’ donation assisted with the provision  
of teaching and support staff.
Maritime London Officer  
Cadet Scheme (MLOCS) – UK
Founded in 1992, MLOCS’ objectives are to support the 
training of UK-based mariners, to recognise and promote 
improvements and standards of expertise on merchant 
vessels and to provide a pool of UK seafarers who might 
look to the City of London for careers when coming ashore. 
Clarksons’ sponsorship of a trainee cadet has continued  
for the second year running.
Kids Cancer Charity – UK
For more than 25 years, Kids Cancer Charity has been 
caring for and supporting families with teenagers affected  
by cancer. Today, the charity has a small service team who 
cover the UK assisted by many part-timers and volunteers. 
The charity is probably best known for the Holiday 
Programme which gives families a chance to get away  
from the pressures of hospital appointments and treatments.  
The aim of the charity is to provide memories that will last  
a lifetime for the families. Clarksons was pleased to support 
the Kids Cancer Charity through direct donation this year.
Salaam Baalak Trust – India
Inspired by Mira Nair’s film ‘Salaam Bombay’ in 1988,  
the Salaam Baalak Trust (SBT) grew out of Nukkad –  
a street based intervention programme that began working 
with street children in and around New Delhi Railway 
Station. SBT is dedicated to the care and protection  
of neglected street children. SBT has supported children  
from all over India. Core to SBT’s work is detoxification  
of children addicted to drugs and provision of educational 
facilities to children who are out of school. Clarksons’ 
donation helped to finance the SBT’s detoxification and 
education programme. 
Cardiac Risk in the Young – UK
One of the largest charitable projects undertaken by 
Clarksons during 2015 was to raise funds for Cardiac Risk 
in the Young following the death of an employee in late 2014 
from a heart attack as a result of peripheral arterial disease.  
A variety of fundraising events took place during 2015,  
the largest of which was ‘Row for Roger’. This was an 
international effort – 10 teams from London, Singapore, 
Dubai and Houston went head-to-head to beat a container 
ship transiting the Panama Canal. Teams rowed against  
the clock, and each other, to cover the 77,000m distance  
in fewer than eight hours. The winning team completed the 
challenge in four hours, 35 minutes and 30 seconds. 
Sailors’ Society – International
Founded in 1818, the Sailors’ Society is one of the largest 
and most comprehensive international seafarers’ support 
charities. In April 2015, colleagues from Clarksons Platou 
Debt and Leasing Solutions completed the Virgin London 
Marathon, to raise funds for the Sailors’ Society.
Norwegian Maritime Museum – Norway
Clarksons Platou is a patron of Norway’s Maritime Museum 
in Oslo which focuses on important traits of Norwegian and 
international shipping throughout history. Platou was also 
involved in developing an interactive shipbroking exhibit at 
the museum.
As ever, both corporately and individually, Clarksons 
employees have contributed to a long list of charities by 
running, swimming, cycling, boxing, climbing and paddling 
through all weathers. 
Some of the organisations benefiting from this incredible 
effort include:
 – Parkinson’s UK
 – Childhood First
 – Scope
 – Cancer Research
 – Help for Heroes
 – Make a Wish Foundation
 – Honeypot
 – Seafarers
 – British Lung Foundation
 – Leukaemia and Lymphoma 
Research
 – Macmillan
 – Action Medical
 – Genetic Disorders UK
 – Art for Cure
Corporate and social responsibility continued www.clarksons.com 37
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Environment 
At Clarksons we recognise the importance of environmental 
issues and the impact they have on our business and  
our stakeholders.
We are seeking to reduce our own environmental impact 
and improve our energy efficiency and, by moving our 
London head office into a new location at Commodity  
Quay in July 2015, we hope to have achieved that. The  
new office at Commodity Quay has been designed to  
a high specification including:
 – video conferencing facilities being installed in all  
meeting rooms;
 – food waste being kept to a minimum by installation  
of a food digester; 
 – multiple waste/recycling points on all floors; 
 – water supplies to kitchens and toilets are controlled  
by PIR devices to minimise wastage; 
 – photocell operation integrated into the lighting control 
systems; and
 – secure bike storage and showers to encourage 
employees to lead a healthy lifestyle.
Whilst the new head office building provides excellent 
facilities for the business, the company has not been able  
to obtain actual consumption data for the building to date 
and as a result the period from July to December 2015 had 
to be estimated. We continue to pursue improved data and 
expect we might have to restate the emissions associated 
with our London head office in the future. 
The February 2015 Platou acquisition meant that the 
following offices have reported emissions in 2015 for the  
first time: Cairo, Rotterdam, New York, Johannesburg, Cape 
Town, Casablanca, Rio de Janeiro, Moscow and Uppsala 
(Sweden). Our reporting has also included some very small 
sites within the Clarkson Port Services division in the UK  
for the first time.
This section includes the company’s mandatory reporting  
of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) pursuant to the 
Companies Act 2006 (strategic report and the directors’ 
report) regulations 2013 for which our reporting year is  
from 1 January to 31 December 2015.
The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions  
is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), using the location-based scope  
2 calculation method, together with the latest emission 
factors from recognised public sources including, but not 
limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US 
Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental 
Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel on 
Climate Change.
The company reports all material emission sources  
which we deem ourselves to be responsible for using an 
operational control approach to define our organisational 
boundary. These sources align with our operational control. 
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources  
that are beyond the boundary of our operational control  
(we have not included business travel as it falls under  
Scope 3 emissions).
Global greenhouse gas emissions data
Tonnes of CO
2
e
2015
% of  
Total 2014
Scope 1 –  
Clarksons control directly 
Combustion of fuel & operation 
of facilities (Gas, vehicle fleet) 922 27% 1,067
Scope 2 –  
Clarksons control indirectly
(Electricity, heat, steam and 
cooling purchased for own use) 2,349 68% 3,294
Scope 3 –  
Clarkson influences 
(T&D losses from electricity) 195 5% 278
Intensity metric – 
tonnes CO
2
e/FTE 2.51 4.74
Intensity ratio
We have significantly reduced our scope 1 & 2 emissions 
from 4,361 tCO
2
e in 2014 to 3,271 tCO
2
e in 2015. This 
change is mainly due to a substantial reduction in reported 
emissions for the London head office. We are confident  
that the new London head office will deliver lower carbon 
emissions as a result of a lower occupied floor area, 
improved efficiency in heating and cooling systems and 
refurbishment designed to minimise the buildings 
environmental impact. However, at the time of this report, 
primary consumption data is not available and therefore the 
emissions associated with the building have been estimated. 
Reduced emissions from the London head office have been 
partially offset by two factors: 
 – Integration following the Platou acquisition to form 
Clarksons Platou which has resulted in a small number  
of new offices and a rise in staffing numbers. 
 – Improved reporting which includes a number of smaller 
Clarkson Port Services sites in the UK and smaller 
international offices which have not previously  
been reported. 
In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a 
quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we have 
used full-time equivalent employees as our intensity ratio 
which gives an indication of our growth and provides for the 
best comparative measure over time.
The company’s most critical environmental and sustainability 
impact areas include carbon emissions linked to energy use 
and travel.
Carbon emissions by continent (tCO
2
e)
Australasia
Asia
Africa
Europe
North America
South America
Middle East
Russia 38 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance
Board of directors
Peter M. Anker
President of broking and investment banking (58)
Peter M. Anker joined the board on 2 February 2015. 
Peter has been chief executive and managing partner of  
RS Platou Shipbrokers AS since 1987 and has also served 
as head of the Platou group and offshore division. He 
previously served as vice president of RS Platou (USA) Inc. 
from 1982 to 1986.
James Hughes-Hallett, CMG
Chairman (66)
James Hughes-Hallett was appointed as a director on  
20 August 2014 and became chairman on 1 January 2015.
James is a non-executive director of John Swire & Sons 
Limited and chairman of United States Cold Storage Inc.  
He is also chairman of the Courtauld Institute and of the 
Esmee Fairbairn Foundation. James was chairman of John 
Swire & Sons Limited until the end of 2014 and chairman  
of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited. 
Earlier in his career James was also the managing director 
and chairman of The China Navigation Company and of  
Swire Pacific Offshore, and chairman of the Hong Kong 
Shipowners Association. He served as a non-executive 
director of HSBC Holdings PLC from 2005 to 2014.
James is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales and an honorary fellow of the 
University of Hong Kong and of Merton College, Oxford. 
James is chair of the nomination committee and a member 
of the remuneration committee.
Jeff Woyda
Chief financial officer and chief operating officer (53)
Jeff Woyda was appointed to the board on  
1 November 2006. 
Jeff qualified with KPMG and before joining Clarksons was  
a member of the executive committee of Gerrard Group 
PLC. Jeff also spent 13 years at GNI where he was chief 
operating officer. Jeff serves as a non-executive director  
of the International Transport Intermediaries Club (ITIC).
Andi Case
Chief executive (49)
Andi Case was appointed to the board as chief executive  
on 17 June 2008, having previously been Clarksons’ chief 
operating officer. 
Andi joined Clarksons in 2006 as managing director of the 
group’s shipbroking arm, H Clarkson & Company Limited. 
He began his shipbroking career with C W Kellock and later 
Eggar Forrester. Prior to joining Clarksons he was with 
Braemar Seascope for 17 years, latterly as head of sale  
and purchase and newbuildings. www.clarksons.com 39
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Birger Nergaard
Non-executive director (64)
Birger Nergaard joined the board on 2 February 2015 and 
has been deputy chairman of the board of Clarksons Platou 
AS (formerly RS Platou ASA) since 2008.
Birger established Four Seasons Venture (today Verdane 
Capital) in 1985 and was the company’s chief executive until 
2006. He is currently a director of Verdane Capital’s funds V, 
VI, VII and VIII, a director of Clarksons Platou Securities AS, 
Nergaard Investment Partners AS and an advisor to the  
P/E fund Advent International in Norway. Birger was 
awarded King Harald’s gold medal in 2006 for pioneering 
the Norwegian venture capital industry. Birger holds a law 
degree from the University of Oslo.
Birger was appointed to the remuneration committee on  
5 January 2016. 
Peter Backhouse
Senior independent director (64)
Peter Backhouse was appointed to the board on  
16 September 2013 and became senior independent 
director on 5 November 2013.
Peter is chairman of the Supervisory Board of HES 
International B.V, a leading provider of port services in dry 
and liquid bulk handling, and a member of the Advisory 
Board of US private equity firm Riverstone Energy Partners. 
Peter has over 40 years’ experience in the international 
energy business. At British Petroleum he was chairman  
and chief executive of BP Europe, executive vice-president 
of global refining and marketing, and head of both North 
Sea oil development and global mergers and acquisitions. 
He served as a non-executive director of BG Group plc,  
the international energy group, between 2000 and 2014.
Peter is a member of the audit, remuneration and 
nomination committees. 
Ed Warner, OBE
Non-executive director (52)
Ed Warner was appointed to the board on 27 June 2008.
Ed is chairman of derivatives exchange LMAX Limited,  
the Standard Life European Private Equity Trust PLC, the 
Blackrock Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC, UK 
Athletics, the sports governing body, and investment bank 
Panmure Gordon. He is also a non-executive director of 
Grant Thornton UK LLP , a leading accountancy and advisory 
practice, and SafeCharge International Group. Ed was 
previously chief executive of IFX Group PLC and Old Mutual 
Financial Services UK, head of Pan European Equities at  
BT Alex Brown, and head of global research at Dresdner 
Kleinwort Benson.
Ed is chairman of the remuneration committee and  
a member of the audit and nomination committees.
James Morley
Non-executive director (67)
James Morley was appointed to the board on  
5 November 2008.
James is senior independent director of Costain Group PLC 
and a director of Minova Insurance Holdings Limited. James 
has served as chief operating officer of Primary Insurance 
Group, group finance director of Cox Insurance Holdings 
and Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC, group executive director 
(finance) at Guardian Royal Exchange, deputy chief 
executive and group finance director at AVIS Europe PLC, 
and was a non-executive director of The Bankers 
Investment Trust PLC, W S Atkins PLC, Trade Indemnity 
Group PLC, The Innovation Group PLC and Speedy Hire 
PLC. James is a chartered accountant. 
James is chairman of the audit committee and a member  
of the remuneration and nomination committees. 40 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Corporate governance statement 
40  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Principles statement 
Good corporate governance underpins the company’s objectives, strategy 
and business model, as set out in the strategic report on pages 2 to 37. 
The board is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate 
governance, which is critical to retaining investor trust in the company  
and in the board as custodian of the company’s assets and values.  
Statement of compliance 
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 38  
to 67 and information incorporated by reference, constitutes the Clarkson 
PLC corporate governance report setting out how the company has 
applied the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the Code), which is applicable to the company for the financial year ended 
31 December 2015. We are compliant with the Code with the exception  
of the requirement to have an externally facilitated board evaluation every 
three years. For further explanation please refer to page 41. 
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. 
Leadership 
The board of directors comprises James Hughes-Hallett, Andi Case,  
Peter M. Anker, Jeff Woyda, Peter Backhouse, Birger Nergaard, James 
Morley and Ed Warner. Biographies of the directors in office at the date  
of signing the financial statements are set out on pages 38 to 39.  
The board, supported by its committees, is responsible for ensuring 
leadership and setting strategic direction with the aim of delivering 
sustainable shareholder value. It is imperative that the combined 
experience and knowledge represented by the board of directors is 
appropriate to lead the company in maintaining its market leading  
position and achieving its strategic objectives. Following completion of  
the acquisition of RS Platou ASA on 2 February 2015 (Platou acquisition), 
Peter M. Anker, the chief executive of Platou, and Birger Nergaard,  
the deputy chairman of Platou, joined the board of Clarkson PLC as 
executive director and non-executive director respectively. 
On appointment, the chairman and the non-executive directors met the 
independence criteria set out under the Code and confirmed that they 
have sufficient time available to discharge their responsibilities effectively. 
They are appointed for an initial three year term, subject to re-election by 
shareholders at each annual general meeting (AGM), after which their 
appointment may be extended, subject to mutual agreement. All members 
of the board will retire and seek re-election by shareholders at this year’s 
AGM in accordance with the Code. The continuing independence of each 
non-executive director is assessed regularly.  
The roles of chairman and chief executive are not exercised by the same 
individual. There is a clear division of responsibilities: 
Chairman Chief executive 
– Leading the board – Running day-to-day business  
– Ensuring board effectiveness – Implementing board strategy  
– Promoting high standards of  
corporate governance  
The non-executive directors have a vital role in ensuring that the strategies 
proposed by the executive directors are appropriately discussed and 
constructively challenged. They help scrutinise the performance of 
management against the agreed goals and strategic objectives of the 
board and monitor the integrity of the company’s financial information and 
systems of risk control and management. In addition, they are responsible 
for considering and approving executive remuneration. The chairman 
maintains direct communication with each of the non-executive directors 
without the executive directors present where necessary. 
 
Powers of the board 
The board meets regularly with at least four scheduled meetings each  
year plus additional meetings to address matters that arise other than  
in the normal course of business. The non-executive directors serve  
on a number of committees established by the board. More information 
regarding board and committee meetings can be found on page 42. 
The board has the powers and duties as set out in all relevant laws  
and the company’s articles of association (Articles). Amendments to  
the company’s Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006. The board has adopted a formal schedule  
of matters it reserves for its own decision making, such as decisions 
relating to:  
– strategy and management 
– financial reporting and controls 
– shareholder communications 
– executive remuneration 
– the group’s corporate and capital structure 
– material contracts 
– board and other senior management appointments and membership  
of board committees 
– corporate governance procedures and other group policies 
Procedure to deal with directors’ conflicts of interest 
A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has a direct  
or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the 
company. The board may authorise any potential conflicts, where 
appropriate, in accordance with the company’s Articles. The company  
has established comprehensive procedures for the disclosure of any such 
conflicts by directors, and for the consideration and authorisation of these 
by the board. The board considers each conflict on its particular facts and 
in the context of the other duties owed by the director to the company. 
The board regularly reviews and monitors potential conflicts of interest.  
Ed Warner, a non-executive director, is also non-executive chairman of 
Panmure Gordon, the company’s joint stockbroker. Jeff Woyda, chief 
financial officer and chief operating officer, is a non-executive director of 
the International Transport Intermediaries Club (ITIC).  
Where a potential or possible conflict of interest arises, both directors 
declare their interest and remove themselves from the decision making 
process in respect of the relevant business. 
Effectiveness 
Succession planning 
There are currently eight directors on the board of Clarkson PLC.  
The structure of the board is regularly reviewed as we seek to appoint  
the best candidate for each vacancy. 
The board oversees the group’s senior management succession plan, 
including the procedure for the appointment of new directors to the  
board to ensure that there are appropriate skills and experience within  
the company and on the board. 
The process for board appointments is led by the nomination committee 
which, in accordance with its terms of reference, evaluates the balance of 
skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the board and makes 
recommendations for appointments to the board. 
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specific term. Details of their 
service contracts can be found on page 49. A report on the work carried 
out by the nomination committee during the year is set out below.
www.clarksons.com   41 
Director induction, training and support 
A careful assessment is made of the time commitment required from  
the chairman and the non-executive directors to discharge their roles 
properly and, on appointment, new directors are provided with a tailored 
induction programme relating to the company’s business. All directors  
are encouraged to regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge 
by attending seminars and training sessions. During the annual board 
evaluation process the directors have the opportunity to highlight any 
areas in which they feel professional development would be beneficial, 
either individually or as a unit. The board has access to the company 
secretary who provides advice on corporate governance matters. 
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the board  
has access to the information it requires and that such information  
is supplied in a timely manner and is of appropriate quality to enable 
directors to discharge their duties effectively. In addition, directors may 
take independent professional advice at the company’s expense if 
necessary, in the course of discharging their duties. 
The senior independent director provides a sounding board for the 
chairman and serves as an intermediary for other directors when required. 
The company purchased and maintained directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance throughout 2015 and this cover has been renewed for 2016. 
Performance evaluation 
At the end of 2015, the board conducted an internal evaluation of  
its own performance, its committees and that of individual directors.  
The chairman’s performance was evaluated by each of the other non-
executive directors. A questionnaire was circulated to all directors seeking 
their evaluation of a number of matters, including board culture, balance, 
meetings and processes. The principal conclusions were then presented 
to the board and key points and actions discussed. The board, having 
carefully considered all matters arising out of the performance review, 
concluded that the board operates effectively and in an open manner. 
Following the Platou acquisition, the board considered it appropriate to 
defer an external performance evaluation until the integration period had 
concluded. It is intended for the external performance evaluation to take 
place during 2016. 
Appointment of directors 
Following amendment at the 2015 AGM, the Articles now provide that  
all directors shall retire from office and subject to satisfactory performance 
are put forward for re-election at each AGM. Shareholders are provided 
with comprehensive information about the directors who are subject to 
election and re-election, including their commitment to the role, in the 
notice of AGM.  
Ed Warner and James Morley will be approaching nine years on the  
board in 2017. The board believes that both directors continue to be  
fully independent in character and judgement.  
Accountability 
The board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the 
company for the benefit of shareholders, assessing the company’s 
position and prospects, and for ensuring that the information presented  
to shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable. Further details of 
directors’ responsibilities for preparing the company’s financial statements 
are set out in the directors’ responsibilities statement on page 61. 
The board is responsible for: 
– determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in 
achieving its strategic objectives; 
– maintaining the company’s system of internal controls and risk 
management; and  
– reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually. 
The audit committee is responsible for the independent review and 
challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management 
approach and for reporting its findings to the board. 
Risk management and internal control 
Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of the  
company’s business activities, which is undertaken using a practical  
and flexible framework, providing a consistent and sustained approach  
to risk evaluation. 
The board has established policies and risk management procedures 
together with key controls, which are reviewed in accordance with 
applicable regulations and best practice guidelines, to ensure that they 
continue to be effective and protect the company’s stakeholders. 
The company’s internal control system encompasses controls over areas 
including financial reporting, operations, compliance and risk management 
procedures. Such a system is designed to evaluate and manage rather 
than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with both annual 
and regular forecasts being considered and approved by the board and 
monthly monitoring of trading results taking place in order to mitigate risks 
associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements. An established compliance, legal and governance 
process is in place to monitor regulatory developments and to ensure  
that all existing and forthcoming regulations are complied with. 
The company issues a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, to which  
all staff are expected to adhere, in order to maintain Clarksons’ status as  
a responsible and trustworthy business. 
All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with group policies 
and for identifying risks within their business areas and to ensure that these 
risks are controlled and monitored in the appropriate way. 
The board has established arrangements by which employees of the 
company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 
or wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters. The audit committee 
regularly reviews this arrangement.  
The board, with advice from the audit committee, has carried out an 
annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and  
risk management and confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the group’s principal risks has operated 
throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this annual 
report. Please refer to pages 32 to 33 of the annual report for more details 
on the principal risks facing the business and the mitigation in place. 
Board engagement with investors and  
relations with shareholders 
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly 
with the board and encourages their participation. The company’s  
AGM will be held on 6 May 2016. Further details of the business to be 
addressed at the meeting can be found in the notice of meeting. 
The executive directors meet regularly with the company’s major 
shareholders and make presentations to analysts, institutional investors 
and investment managers following the announcement of the interim  
and full year results. The non-executive directors are fully briefed on the 
opinions of investors after such meetings. 
The senior independent director is available to meet with shareholders  
and institutional investors as required. 
The primary means of communication with our shareholders are via the 
company’s annual and interim reports and website on which the company 
publishes its trading updates and other news released to the London 
Stock Exchange. For shareholder information see page 60 or visit 
www.clarksons.com/investors. 
Governance
Corporate governance statement www.clarksons.com 41
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
www.clarksons.com   41 
Director induction, training and support 
A careful assessment is made of the time commitment required from  
the chairman and the non-executive directors to discharge their roles 
properly and, on appointment, new directors are provided with a tailored 
induction programme relating to the company’s business. All directors  
are encouraged to regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge 
by attending seminars and training sessions. During the annual board 
evaluation process the directors have the opportunity to highlight any 
areas in which they feel professional development would be beneficial, 
either individually or as a unit. The board has access to the company 
secretary who provides advice on corporate governance matters. 
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the board  
has access to the information it requires and that such information  
is supplied in a timely manner and is of appropriate quality to enable 
directors to discharge their duties effectively. In addition, directors may 
take independent professional advice at the company’s expense if 
necessary, in the course of discharging their duties. 
The senior independent director provides a sounding board for the 
chairman and serves as an intermediary for other directors when required. 
The company purchased and maintained directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance throughout 2015 and this cover has been renewed for 2016. 
Performance evaluation 
At the end of 2015, the board conducted an internal evaluation of  
its own performance, its committees and that of individual directors.  
The chairman’s performance was evaluated by each of the other non-
executive directors. A questionnaire was circulated to all directors seeking 
their evaluation of a number of matters, including board culture, balance, 
meetings and processes. The principal conclusions were then presented 
to the board and key points and actions discussed. The board, having 
carefully considered all matters arising out of the performance review, 
concluded that the board operates effectively and in an open manner. 
Following the Platou acquisition, the board considered it appropriate to 
defer an external performance evaluation until the integration period had 
concluded. It is intended for the external performance evaluation to take 
place during 2016. 
Appointment of directors 
Following amendment at the 2015 AGM, the Articles now provide that  
all directors shall retire from office and subject to satisfactory performance 
are put forward for re-election at each AGM. Shareholders are provided 
with comprehensive information about the directors who are subject to 
election and re-election, including their commitment to the role, in the 
notice of AGM.  
Ed Warner and James Morley will be approaching nine years on the  
board in 2017. The board believes that both directors continue to be  
fully independent in character and judgement.  
Accountability 
The board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the 
company for the benefit of shareholders, assessing the company’s 
position and prospects, and for ensuring that the information presented  
to shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable. Further details of 
directors’ responsibilities for preparing the company’s financial statements 
are set out in the directors’ responsibilities statement on page 61. 
The board is responsible for: 
– determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in 
achieving its strategic objectives; 
– maintaining the company’s system of internal controls and risk 
management; and  
– reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually. 
The audit committee is responsible for the independent review and 
challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management 
approach and for reporting its findings to the board. 
Risk management and internal control 
Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of the  
company’s business activities, which is undertaken using a practical  
and flexible framework, providing a consistent and sustained approach  
to risk evaluation. 
The board has established policies and risk management procedures 
together with key controls, which are reviewed in accordance with 
applicable regulations and best practice guidelines, to ensure that they 
continue to be effective and protect the company’s stakeholders. 
The company’s internal control system encompasses controls over areas 
including financial reporting, operations, compliance and risk management 
procedures. Such a system is designed to evaluate and manage rather 
than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with both annual 
and regular forecasts being considered and approved by the board and 
monthly monitoring of trading results taking place in order to mitigate risks 
associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements. An established compliance, legal and governance 
process is in place to monitor regulatory developments and to ensure  
that all existing and forthcoming regulations are complied with. 
The company issues a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, to which  
all staff are expected to adhere, in order to maintain Clarksons’ status as  
a responsible and trustworthy business. 
All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with group policies 
and for identifying risks within their business areas and to ensure that these 
risks are controlled and monitored in the appropriate way. 
The board has established arrangements by which employees of the 
company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 
or wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters. The audit committee 
regularly reviews this arrangement.  
The board, with advice from the audit committee, has carried out an 
annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and  
risk management and confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the group’s principal risks has operated 
throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this annual 
report. Please refer to pages 32 to 33 of the annual report for more details 
on the principal risks facing the business and the mitigation in place. 
Board engagement with investors and  
relations with shareholders 
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly 
with the board and encourages their participation. The company’s  
AGM will be held on 6 May 2016. Further details of the business to be 
addressed at the meeting can be found in the notice of meeting. 
The executive directors meet regularly with the company’s major 
shareholders and make presentations to analysts, institutional investors 
and investment managers following the announcement of the interim  
and full year results. The non-executive directors are fully briefed on the 
opinions of investors after such meetings. 
The senior independent director is available to meet with shareholders  
and institutional investors as required. 
The primary means of communication with our shareholders are via the 
company’s annual and interim reports and website on which the company 
publishes its trading updates and other news released to the London 
Stock Exchange. For shareholder information see page 60 or visit 
www.clarksons.com/investors.  42 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Corporate governance statement continued 
42  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Board committees 
The board is supported by the audit, nomination and remuneration 
committees. The responsibilities of each committee are set out in their 
respective terms of reference, which are approved by the board and 
published on the company’s website. 
The attendance of members of the board at board and committee 
meetings during the year was as follows: 
 Board 
Audit 
committee 
Remuneration 
committee 
Nomination
committee
Total number of  
meetings held  
in the year 8 3 3 1
James Hughes-Hallett
1
 8 3* 2 1
Peter Backhouse 8 3 2 1
Andi Case 8 1* 3* 1*
Peter M. Anker
2
 7 – – –
Birger Nergaard
2
 6 – – –
James Morley 8 3 3 1
Ed Warner 7 3 3 1
Jeff Woyda 8 3* 2* 1*
* Attends by invitation only. 
1 Appointed as a chairman of the board on 1 January 2015.  
2 Appointed to the board on 2 February 2015. 
Audit committee 
The members of the audit committee are James Morley, Peter Backhouse 
and Ed Warner. James Morley chairs the committee and has been 
determined by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience. 
The committee assists the board in monitoring the integrity of the group’s 
financial statements, reviews the effectiveness of the group’s systems  
of internal control and risk management and monitors the objectivity, 
effectiveness and performance of the external auditors. It examines the 
adequacy and security of the company’s arrangements for employees  
to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial 
reporting. It reviews the company’s systems and controls for the 
prevention of bribery and assesses a report from the Compliance and 
Money Laundering Officer annually.
The chairman of the board, the chief executive, chief financial officer  
and chief operating officer and other senior managers may be invited to 
attend meetings when appropriate and the external auditors are invited  
to attend on a regular basis. The committee meets privately on a regular 
basis with the external auditors in the absence of management. Further 
details on the work of the audit committee are shown in the audit 
committee report on pages 58 to 59. The committee’s terms of reference 
are available on the company’s website. 
Remuneration committee 
The members of the remuneration committee are Ed Warner, Peter 
Backhouse, James Morley, James Hughes-Hallett and, from 5 January 
2016, Birger Nergaard. The committee is chaired by Ed Warner and is 
responsible for determining with the board the policy on remuneration of 
the chairman, chief executive, executive directors and certain other senior 
staff. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is decided by the 
chairman and executive directors. Further details on the work of this 
committee are contained within the directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 43 to 57. The committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
company’s website. 
Nomination committee 
The nomination committee comprises the chairman James Hughes-
Hallett, Ed Warner, Peter Backhouse and James Morley. The chairman  
of the board does not chair the committee when it is dealing with the 
matter of succession to the chairmanship.  
The committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the 
board (including the skills, knowledge and experience), leads the process 
for board and committee appointments, and makes recommendations  
to the board based on the balance of skills and experience of board 
membership. The committee gives full consideration to future succession 
planning for the board, in particular for the key roles of chairman and chief 
executive, and other senior executives.  
Clarksons recognise and embrace the benefits of a diverse board.  
As part of the annual performance evaluation, the nomination committee 
reviews the composition of the board, the committees and the individual 
directors. The committee will consider suitable candidates for any board 
appointments on the basis of a wide range of criteria including personal 
merit, ability, knowledge, experience and independence. This is to ensure 
that we are appointing the best possible candidate for each vacancy and 
to ensure a well-balanced board. 
The committee’s terms of reference are available on the company’s 
website. 
Governance
Clarkson PLC board
James Hughes-Hallett (Chair) 
Peter Backhouse (Senior independent director)
Directors’ biographies – see pages 38 to 39
Audit committee
James Morley (Chair) 
Peter Backhouse 
Ed Warner
Remuneration committee
Ed Warner (Chair) 
Peter Backhouse 
James Morley 
James Hughes-Hallett 
Birger Nergaard
Nomination committee
James Hughes-Hallett (Chair) 
Ed Warner 
Peter Backhouse 
James Morley www.clarksons.com 43
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report 
www.clarksons.com   43 
Annual statement 
I am pleased to introduce the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2015.  
The report is split into three sections, namely:  
(i) this annual statement;  
(ii) the remuneration policy (as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM). Although the disclosure of this part of the remuneration report is not 
required this year, it has been repeated in line with best practice; and  
(iii) the annual report on remuneration (explaining payments made in the year under review and how the policy will be operated for 2016). 
Remuneration policy 
Our employees are central to the company’s ongoing success and in setting the remuneration policy at Clarksons our objective is to attract and retain  
the best talent in our markets. At the same time the remuneration committee seeks to ensure that executive pay is aligned to the corporate plan and 
business goals as well as supporting the interests of shareholders. We have had a consistent policy since 2006 and believe that it has served the 
company’s shareholders well since then. 
Remuneration policy across the group is consistently applied, as are bonus plans which are operated group wide. 
Executive directors are shareholders in Clarksons and accordingly understand the imperative to deliver long-term returns for the company’s owners. 
Their short-term rewards are directly aligned to the profitability of the company. 
Performance and reward for 2015 
At the beginning of 2015, following the acquisition of RS Platou ASA, the executive bonus scheme was amended so as to ensure that earnings per  
share on the enlarged shareholding was no lower than it would have been prior to the acquisition at each tranche level of executive remuneration. The 
executive directors sacrificed 5% of the bonuses they were eligible to receive, for the purposes of providing additional reward to other senior employees. 
Strong growth in both the earnings per share and total shareholder return over the three years to 31 December 2015 will result in a 70% vesting of the 
2013 grant of LTIP awards in May 2016. 
While the base salary level of executive directors was frozen for the eighth year in a row, an adjustment was made to Jeff Woyda’s salary to reflect his 
mid-year appointment as chief operating officer in addition to his role as chief financial officer to correspond with the significant increase and the size  
and complexity of his role. No other salary adjustments were made during 2015 or from 1 January 2016. 
Policy for 2016 
The remuneration committee is not proposing to make any changes to the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. As such: 
– base salary levels were not increased from 1 January 2016;  
– the annual bonus will continue to be based on a bonus pool derived from group profit before tax; 
– consistent with the policy applied to the majority of senior employees, 90% of the annual bonus payable will be paid in cash with 10% voluntarily 
deferred into shares for four years and clawback provisions will continue to apply; and 
– LTIP awards will be granted in 2016 as part of the normal annual grant policy and will continue to be based on a combination of earnings per share 
and relative total shareholder return targets. 
The remuneration committee believes these continue to be correct principles for a business such as Clarksons and I commend this remuneration policy 
to you. Should you have any questions, please contact me at the company address. I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions and discuss 
the policy more widely. 
 
 
Ed Warner  Remuneration committee chairman 
4 March 2016 
  
Directors’ remuneration report 44 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance  
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
44  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Directors’ remuneration policy 
This remuneration policy report was put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and, following its approval, became effective from that date.  
No changes for 2016 are proposed. 
How the remuneration committee operates to set the remuneration policy 
The remuneration committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for: 
– setting the senior executives’ remuneration policy and actual remuneration; 
– reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the board and shareholders; and 
– approving the design of, and recommending targets for, any performance-related pay schemes the company operates for senior executives. 
The remuneration committee encourages dialogue with shareholders and engages with the company’s major shareholders on a regular basis.  
Major shareholders will be consulted on a timely basis on any material changes proposed for the remuneration policy. 
Summary of overall remuneration policy 
The policy of the company is to ensure that executive rewards are linked to performance, to provide an incentive to achieve the key business aims, 
deliver an appropriate link between reward and performance and maintain a reasonable relationship of rewards to those offered in other competitor 
companies in order to attract, retain and motivate executives within a framework of what is acceptable to shareholders. We maintain a strong focus  
on ensuring that executives are incentivised to drive economic profit as well as being rewarded for creating sustainable value. 
There are few comparable UK public companies involved solely in the business of providing shipping and related wholesale financial services. 
Comparisons are therefore made with City-based companies and private companies in the shipping sector, many of which are headquartered overseas. 
In the highly competitive global labour market which operates within the shipping services sector where business is based around personal client 
relationships, the retention of key talent is critical to continued business success. Remuneration levels are set to attract and retain the best talent and to 
ensure that market competitive rewards are available for the delivery of strong business and personal performance within an appropriate risk framework. 
It is recognised by the remuneration committee that the current management team is highly regarded and would be attractive to Clarksons’ competitors 
in the shipping industry and increasingly, wholesale brokerage and agency businesses. Retention of key talent in this context is critical, whilst recognising 
the need for appropriate succession planning. 
The proportionate breakdown of the total remuneration is such that, in line with most other wholesale brokerage and agency companies, a very high 
proportion of the package is performance-related. The chief executive’s bonus recognises that he performs the duties and responsibilities incumbent  
with the role of group chief executive and in addition, as a shipbroker, generates significant revenues. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The company is committed to maintaining good communication with investors. The remuneration committee considers the AGM to be an opportunity  
to meet and communicate with investors, giving shareholders the platform to raise any issues or concerns they may have. In addition, the remuneration 
committee would engage directly with major shareholders should any material changes be made to the directors’ remuneration policy. 
Details of the votes cast in respect of the resolutions to approve last year’s remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during 
2015 are set out in the annual report on remuneration on page 57. 
  
Governance www.clarksons.com 45
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
www.clarksons.com   45 
Remuneration policy report 
Key elements of remuneration policy are set out below: 
 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework 
Base salary 
– To attract and retain high 
performing executive  
directors who are critical  
for the business 
– Set at a level to provide a 
core reward for the role and 
cover essential living costs 
– Reviewed periodically 
– Paid monthly 
– Salaries are determined  
taking into account: 
– the experience, 
responsibility, effectiveness 
and market value of the 
executive 
– the pay and conditions in 
the workforce 
– There is no prescribed 
maximum annual increase.  
The committee is guided by 
the general increase for the 
broader workforce but on 
occasion may recognise an 
increase in certain 
circumstances, such as 
assumed additional 
responsibility or an increase in 
the scale or scope of the role 
n/a 
Benefits  
– To provide a market  
standard suite of basic 
benefits in kind to ensure  
the executive directors’  
well-being 
– Taxable benefits include: 
– car allowance 
– healthcare insurance 
– club membership 
– Participation in ShareSave 
– Other benefits may be 
payable where appropriate 
– A car allowance in line with 
market norm. The value of 
other benefits is based on the 
cost to the company and is 
not predetermined 
– ShareSave up to prevailing 
HMRC limits 
n/a 
Annual bonus  
(including 
deferred 
shares) 
– To reward significant  
annual profit performance 
– To ensure that the bonus 
plan is competitive with our 
peers. As a result, bonus 
forms a significant proportion 
of the remuneration package 
– To ensure that if there is a 
reduction in profitability, the 
level of bonus payable falls 
away sharply 
– 90% of the bonus is paid in 
cash and although they have 
no contractual obligation, the 
directors have agreed that 
10% of annual bonus payable 
is deferred in shares, vesting 
after four years 
– Directors have voting rights 
and receive dividends on 
deferred shares 
– Performance criteria are 
reviewed and re-calibrated 
carefully each year to ensure 
they are linked to strategic 
business goals, take full 
account of economic 
conditions and are sufficiently 
demanding to control the  
total bonus pool and  
individual allocations 
– Clawback provision operates 
for overpayments due to 
misstatement or error 
– In line with Clarksons’  
peers, the annual bonus  
is not subject to a formal 
individual cap 
 
– Bonus is determined  
by group performance 
measured over one year  
on the following basis: 
– below a ‘profit floor’ set by 
the committee each year 
no bonus is triggered 
– above the floor, an 
escalating percentage  
of profits is payable into  
a bonus pool for 
progressively higher profit 
before tax performance 
– profit for bonus calculations 
may be adjusted by the 
remuneration committee 
where appropriate and 
does not include mark- 
to-market valuations or 
business that has not  
been invoiced 
– for the chief executive  
a further key determinant  
of his annual bonus is  
the significant broking 
revenues generated by  
him personally 
  46 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
46  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Remuneration policy report continued 
 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework 
Long term 
incentives  
– To incentivise and reward 
significant long-term financial 
performance and share price 
performance relative to the 
stock market 
– To encourage share 
ownership and provide  
further alignment with 
shareholders 
– Awards are performance-
related and are normally 
structured as nil cost options 
– Awards are granted each year 
following the publication of 
annual results 
– Clawback provision operates 
for overpayments due to 
misstatement or error 
– Annual maximum limit of 
150% of basic salary for 
awards subject to long-term 
performance targets (200%  
of basic salary in exceptional 
circumstances) 
– Dividend equivalents  
(in cash or shares) may  
accrue between grant  
and vesting, to the extent  
that shares under award 
ultimately vest 
– The awards are subject to 
performance conditions 
measured on a combination 
of three year EPS growth  
and relative TSR 
– Normally measured over a 
three year performance period
– 25% of an award will vest for 
achieving threshold 
performance, increasing  
pro-rata to full vesting for  
the achievement of stretch 
performance targets 
Pension 
– To provide a market 
competitive pension 
arrangement 
– Executive directors participate 
in a company defined 
contribution pension scheme 
and/or receive a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions 
– Employer contributions are  
up to 15% of basic salary or 
an equivalent cash allowance 
net of employer’s NI 
n/a 
Non-executive 
directors’  
fees 
– To attract and retain high 
calibre non-executive  
directors through the  
provision of market 
competitive fees 
– Reviewed annually 
– Paid monthly 
– Fees are determined taking 
into account: 
– the experience, 
responsibility, effectiveness 
and time commitments of 
the non-executive 
– the pay and conditions in 
the workforce 
– As for the executive directors 
there is no prescribed 
maximum annual increase. 
Fee increases are guided by 
the general increase for the 
broader workforce but on 
occasion may recognise  
an increase in certain 
circumstances, such as 
assumed additional 
responsibility or an increase in 
the scale or scope of the role 
n/a 
1 A description of how the company intends to implement the above policy for 2016 is set out in the annual report on remuneration on page 50.  
2 The annual bonus performance measures are focused on profit before tax to reflect how successful the company has been in managing its operations. 
 The LTIP performance measures, EPS and TSR, reward significant long-term returns to shareholders and long-term financial growth. EPS growth is derived from the audited 
financial statements while TSR performance is monitored on the remuneration committee’s behalf by New Bridge Street. 
 Targets are set on a sliding scale that takes account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the company. Only modest rewards are available  
for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year. 
3 The committee operates the annual bonus and LTIP plans according to their respective rules, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. 
Consistent with market practice, the committee retains flexibility and discretions in a number of key areas. 
4 The remuneration policy for the executive directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the group as a whole and is consistent between the executive 
directors and the remainder of the workforce. In particular, there has been a widespread salary freeze for all employees earning salaries of £100,000 p.a. or more. In contrast, 
salaries for lower paid employees have generally increased (on average across the population) each year. The annual bonus plan operates on a similar profit-driven basis 
across the group and there is a relatively high level of employee share ownership. The key differences in policy for executive directors relate to participating in the LTIP awards, 
which have strict vesting conditions. This is considered appropriate to provide a link for a proportion of performance pay with the longer term strategy thereby creating stronger 
alignment of interest with shareholders. The committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the company’s executive director remuneration 
policy, although the committee will keep this under review. 
5 For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors’ remuneration policy, authority was given to the company to honour any commitments entered into with current or 
former directors (such as, the payment of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards) that have been in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments 
to former directors will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise. 
  
Governance www.clarksons.com 47
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   47 
Directors’ remuneration scenarios 
The company’s remuneration policy results in a proportionate breakdown of total remuneration such that, in line with most other wholesale brokerage 
and agency companies, a very high proportion of the package is performance-related. 
The charts below show an estimate of the potential remuneration payable for the executive directors in office on 1 January 2016 at different levels of 
performance. The charts highlight that the performance-related elements of the package comprise a highly significant portion of the executive directors’ 
total remuneration at target and maximum performance. 
 
1 Basic salary levels applying on 1 January 2016. 
2 The value of taxable benefits is estimated. 
3 The value of the pension receivable is up to 15% of basic salary. 
4 - Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP;  
- on-target performance assumes an annual bonus calculated by reference to market expectations at the start of 2016 and 50% being achieved under the LTIP; and  
- maximum performance assumes profit before taxation outperforms consensus and full vesting under the LTIP. It should, however, be noted that there is in fact no upper  
limit as explained on page 45 and the above charts are purely for illustrative purposes. 
5 Share price movement has been excluded from the above analysis. 
Directors’ recruitment and promotions  
The remuneration committee has the objective to attract and retain the best talent in our markets, while at the same time ensuring executive pay is 
aligned to the corporate plan and business goals as well as supporting the interests of shareholders. 
If a new executive director was appointed, the company would seek to align the remuneration package with the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders, including the maximum limit for the LTIP and an annual bonus pool entitlement in line with that of the other executive directors. However, 
flexibility would be retained to offer remuneration on appointment in respect of deferred remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. The committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so, will take account of relevant 
factors including the nature of the deferred remuneration, performance conditions and the time over which they would have vested or been paid. 
The initial notice period for a service contract may be longer than the policy of one year, provided it reduces to one year within a short space of time. 
For an internal appointment, any ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue. 
The remuneration committee may also agree that the company will meet certain relocation and incidental expenses as appropriate. 
  
 
www.clarksons.com   47 
Directors’ remuneration scenarios 
The company’s remuneration policy results in a proportionate breakdown of total remuneration such that, in line with most other wholesale brokerage 
and agency companies, a very high proportion of the package is performance-related. 
The charts below show an estimate of the potential remuneration payable for the executive directors in office on 1 January 2016 at different levels of 
performance. The charts highlight that the performance-related elements of the package comprise a highly significant portion of the executive directors’ 
total remuneration at target and maximum performance. 
 
1 Basic salary levels applying on 1 January 2016. 
2 The value of taxable benefits is estimated. 
3 The value of the pension receivable is up to 15% of basic salary. 
4 - Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP;  
- on-target performance assumes an annual bonus calculated by reference to market expectations at the start of 2016 and 50% being achieved under the LTIP; and  
- maximum performance assumes profit before taxation outperforms consensus and full vesting under the LTIP. It should, however, be noted that there is in fact no upper  
limit as explained on page 45 and the above charts are purely for illustrative purposes. 
5 Share price movement has been excluded from the above analysis. 
Directors’ recruitment and promotions  
The remuneration committee has the objective to attract and retain the best talent in our markets, while at the same time ensuring executive pay is 
aligned to the corporate plan and business goals as well as supporting the interests of shareholders. 
If a new executive director was appointed, the company would seek to align the remuneration package with the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders, including the maximum limit for the LTIP and an annual bonus pool entitlement in line with that of the other executive directors. However, 
flexibility would be retained to offer remuneration on appointment in respect of deferred remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. The committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so, will take account of relevant 
factors including the nature of the deferred remuneration, performance conditions and the time over which they would have vested or been paid. 
The initial notice period for a service contract may be longer than the policy of one year, provided it reduces to one year within a short space of time. 
For an internal appointment, any ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue. 
The remuneration committee may also agree that the company will meet certain relocation and incidental expenses as appropriate. 
  
Chief executive
Minimum
On target
Maximum
632
5,390
6,558
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
Chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer 
and chief operating ofﬁcer
100%
12%
10%
80%
77%
8%
13%
£000
President of broking 
and investment banking
xx
Minimum
On target
Maximum
401
1,601
2,762
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
100%
25%
15%
59%
66%
16%
19%
£000 xx
Minimum
On target
Maximum
414
1,601
2,032
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
100%
25%
20%
59%
54%
16%
26%
£000 48 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
48  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Directors’ service contracts and payments for loss of office 
The remuneration committee reviews the contractual terms for executive directors in light of developments in best practice and trends in our sector.  
The remuneration related elements of the current contracts for executive directors are shown in the table below: 
Provision Detailed terms 
Notice period One year by the company or the director. 
Termination payment Chief executive: 
The company may elect to pay in lieu of notice: 
– an amount equivalent to 12 months’ base salary plus the cost of contractual benefits; plus 
– an amount equivalent to 50% of the last bonus received. 
In addition: 
– if not already paid, any bonus in respect of the prior year is payable (if not agreed, an amount equal to the last bonus 
received); and 
– a pro-rated bonus for the period of the year worked is payable. 
 Chief financial officer and chief operating officer: 
The company may elect to pay in lieu of notice: 
– an amount equivalent to base salary, benefits and bonus for the relevant period of notice. 
 President of broking and investment banking: 
The company may elect to pay in lieu of notice: 
– an amount equivalent to base salary and contractual benefits only. 
 
The remuneration committee recognises that it is unusual in the context of listed PLCs to pay an amount in lieu of annual 
bonus for the notice period to the chief executive and chief financial officer and chief operating officer but considers that the 
policy is appropriate for the following reasons: 
– salary forms a lower proportion of remuneration than in most other UK companies; 
– typically in the shipbroking industry, income from business conducted is received over a number of years in arrears; 
– bonuses are only payable if profit thresholds and targets are achieved i.e. there is no automatic entitlement to a bonus; and 
– unvested awards under the LTIP are capable of vesting subject to performance. 
For unvested entitlements to share awards under the 2004 Clarkson LTIP which reached the end of its ten year life in  
May 2014, the rules contain discretionary provisions setting out the treatment of awards where a participant ceases to  
be employed by the Clarksons group for designated reasons. In the case of the participant’s injury, disability, statutory 
redundancy, retirement, a sale of their employing company or business in which they were employed or for any other reason 
at the discretion of the committee, the participant’s awards will not be forfeited but will vest on the date of cessation of 
employment, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions. In the case of a participant’s death, any 
unvested awards will vest in full on the date of cessation. 
For unvested entitlements to share awards under the 2014 Clarkson LTIP, where a participant ceases to be employed by the 
Clarksons group due to ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, a sale of his employing company or business or for 
any other reason at the discretion of the committee (good leaver circumstance), then he will be entitled to keep his award as 
described below: 
– performance-related awards will normally vest on the normal vesting dates (unless the remuneration committee determines 
that they should vest upon cessation) subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions and time pro-rating 
(unless the remuneration committee decides to disapply time pro-rating). In the case of a death or ill-health, awards will vest 
at cessation subject to the relevant performance conditions; and 
– deferred bonus awards will vest in full. 
 
  
Governance www.clarksons.com 49
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   49 
Provision Detailed terms 
Change of control Chief executive: 
If, within 18 months of a change of control, the company gives the chief executive notice (except for reasons of gross 
misconduct or material breach of contract) or the chief executive gives notice as a result of a material breach of his contract or 
the company limits his ability to earn future bonuses, the chief executive will, within 30 days of termination, receive an amount 
equivalent to one year’s basic salary, 150% of the last annual bonus received and the gross annual value of contractual 
benefits (pro-rated). In these circumstances, the chief executive’s notice period is reduced to four weeks. 
 
Chief financial officer and chief operating officer: 
Within one year of a change of control the executive or the company may give notice (of not less than four weeks in the case 
of the former) whereupon the executive will receive immediately an amount equivalent to one year’s basic salary, contractual 
benefits, employer pension contributions and annual bonus. 
 
President of broking and investment banking: 
No change of control provisions exist. 
 
All unvested awards under the 2004 Clarkson LTIP would vest, to the extent that any performance conditions attaching  
to the relevant award have been achieved. 
All unvested awards under the 2014 Clarkson LTIP would vest, to the extent that any performance conditions attaching  
to the relevant award have been achieved. To the extent that any performance conditions have been met, the committee  
will consider whether time pro-rating should apply. 
In August 2008 it was however contractually agreed with the current chief financial officer and chief operating officer,  
Jeff Woyda, that no time pro-rating will be applied to his LTIP awards. 
The remuneration committee recognises that it is now unusual, in the context of listed PLCs, for service contracts to contain 
change of control provisions and will therefore seek to avoid such provisions for future executive appointments to the board. 
 
Details of the current executive directors’ service contracts  
are as follows: Date of contract Unexpired term  Notice period 
Andi Case 17 June 2008 12 months 12 months
Jeff Woyda 3 October 2006 12 months 12 months
Peter M. Anker
1
 27 November 2014 12 months 12 months
Service contracts are available for inspection at the company’s registered office.  
Details of the non-executive directors’ appointment terms  
are as follows: Date of appointment
Unexpired term at  
31 December 2015  Notice period
James Hughes-Hallett 20 August 2014 20 months 3 months
Peter Backhouse 16 September 2013 9 months 3 months
Ed Warner 27 June 2008 18 months 3 months
James Morley 5 November 2008 23 months 3 months
Birger Nergaard
1
 2 February 2015 26 months 3 months
1 Peter M. Anker and Birger Nergaard were appointed to the board with effect from 2 February 2015 upon the completion of the RS Platou ASA acquisition. 
Non-executive directors are appointed by letter of appointment for a fixed term not exceeding three years, renewable on the agreement of both the 
company and the director, subject to re-election at each AGM. Each appointment can be terminated before the end of the three year period with three 
months’ notice due. 
Fees payable for a new non-executive director appointment will take into account the experience of the individual and the current fee structure. 
  50 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
50  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Annual report on remuneration 
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2016 
Base salary  
1 January 2016
£000
1 January 2015 
(or appointment if later) 
£000 % change
Andi Case 550 550 0%
Jeff Woyda 350 250 40%
Peter M. Anker
1
 350 350 n/a
1 Peter M. Anker was appointed to the board on 2 February 2015 upon the completion of the RS Platou ASA acquisition. 
While the base salary level of executive directors was frozen for the eighth year in a row, an adjustment was made to Jeff Woyda’s salary to reflect his 
mid-year appointment as chief operating officer in addition to his role as chief financial officer to correspond with the significant increase and the size and 
complexity of his role. No other salary adjustments were made during 2015 or from 1 January 2016. 
Annual bonus for 2016  
For 2016, the annual bonus opportunity will remain uncapped and will continue to be based on a bonus pool derived from group profit before tax  
as follows: 
– below a ‘profit floor’ set by the committee no bonus is triggered; and 
– above the floor, an escalating percentage of profits is payable into a bonus pool for progressively higher profit before tax performance. 
Profit for bonus calculations may be adjusted by the remuneration committee where appropriate and does not include mark-to-market valuations or 
business that has not been invoiced. 
The profit floor and challenges for 2016 have not been disclosed on a prospective basis as these are considered to be commercially sensitive, although 
disclosure will be provided retrospectively.  
Consistent with the policy applied to the majority of senior employees, 90% of the bonus payable will be paid in cash with 10% voluntarily deferred into 
shares for four years and clawback provisions will continue to apply. 
Long term incentive awards to be granted in 2016 
Consistent with past practice, it is envisaged that: 
– executive directors will receive LTIP awards over shares worth up to 150% of salary in 2016. 
– the vesting of 50% of awards will be determined by the company’s EPS for 31 December 2018, as shown in chart (i) below. The EPS for 2015  
is shown (black line) for reference; and 
– the vesting of the remaining 50% will be determined by the company’s TSR performance from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts), as shown in chart (ii) below. The level of total shareholder return achieved against 
the FTSE 250 Index over the last three year cycle is shown (black line) for reference. 
EPS and relative TSR are considered to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the group, in that they ensure executives are 
incentivised and rewarded for the earnings performance of the group as well as returning value to shareholders. 
The awards will be subject to clawback provisions. 
Governance
EPS target range for 2016 award (50% of award)
xx
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
122p 140p 190p
EPS target (pence) for FY ended 31 December 2018 for 2016 award
% of EPS award vesting (50% of award)
Vesting schedule for 2016 awards 2015 EPS
TSR target range for 2016 award (50% of award)
xx
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
1st Place Median Upper Quartile
TSR ranking at end of 3 year performance period
% of TSR award vesting (50% of award)
TSR performance range Actual result in last three year TSR cycle www.clarksons.com 51
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   51 
Directors’ remuneration (audited) 
Details of emoluments and compensation payable in their capacity as directors during the year are set out below: 
2015 
Basic salary 
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
2
£000
Pension
3
£000
Performance- 
related
bonus
5 
£000
Total 
remuneration 
before LTIP
6
 
£000 
Long term 
incentives
£000
Total 
remuneration
£000
Executive directors          
Andi Case 550 26 74 3,495 4,145 827 4,972
Jeff Woyda 308 12 40 753 1,113 346 1,459
Peter M. Anker
4
 309 22 5 655 991 – 991
Non-executive directors          
James Hughes-Hallett 140 – – – 140 – 140
Peter Backhouse 73 – – – 73 – 73
Ed Warner 73 – – – 73 – 73
James Morley 73 – – – 73 – 73
Birger Nergaard
4
 50 – – – 50 – 50
  1,576 60 119 4,903 6,658 1,173 7,831
 
2014 
Basic salary 
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
£000
Pension
£000
Performance- 
related
bonus
£000
Total  
remuneration 
before LTIP 
£000 
Long term 
incentives
£000
Total 
remuneration
£000
Executive directors          
Andi Case 550 22 74 3,420 4,066 904 4,970
Jeff Woyda 250 12 33 730 1,025 411 1,436
Non-executive directors          
Bob Benton
1
 120 – – – 120 – 120
James Hughes-Hallett
1
 20 – – – 20  – 20
Peter Backhouse 69 – – – 69 – 69
Ed Warner 69 – – – 69 – 69
James Morley  69 – – – 69 – 69
Philip Green
1
 43 – – – 43 – 43
  1,190 34 107 4,150 5,481 1,315 6,796
We consider key management personnel to be Clarkson PLC directors. 
1 Philip Green and Bob Benton stepped down from the board on 9 May 2014 and 1 January 2015 respectively. James Hughes-Hallett was appointed to the board on 20 
August 2014 and became chairman on 1 January 2015. The last payment that Bob Benton received was made on 31 December 2014. 
2 Benefits include cash allowances in lieu of company cars, healthcare insurance and club memberships. 
3 Pension includes pension contributions and cash supplements where relevant. 
4 Peter M. Anker and Birger Nergaard joined the board from 2 February 2015. 
5 Annual bonus for 2015 was based on the allocation of the following pool:  
Underlying profit before taxation and bonus % of pre-bonus profit
If profit < £26.46m 0%
If profit > £26.47m then £0m – £52.92m 11%
If profit > £52.93m then £52.93m – £61.70m  16%
If profit > £61.71m then on profits > £61.71m 18%
Actual underlying profit before taxation £50.5m
Actual bonus pool £6.3m
% of pool allocated to executive directors 77%
 The bonus is paid 90% in cash and, although they have no contractual obligation, the directors have agreed that 10% of the bonus will be deferred in shares, vesting after four 
years. Both the cash and share element of the bonus are subject to clawback where overpayments may be reclaimed in the event of misstatement or error. 
6 Long term incentives relate to awards granted on 10 May 2013 which vest in May 2016 based on performance for the year ended 31 December 2015. The performance 
conditions attached to this award and actual performance against these conditions are as follows:  52 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
52  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Directors’ remuneration (audited) continued 
Performance measure Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual % vesting
Earnings per share 
(out of 50%) 
25% of award vesting at 
threshold up to 100% of 
award vesting at stretch 
on straight-line basis 105p 150p 121.7p 26%
Total shareholder return  
(out of 50%) 
25% vesting of award at 
threshold up to 100% of 
award vesting at stretch 
on straight-line basis Median Upper quartile 99% 44%
Total vesting (out of 100%)       
70%
(max 100%)
The award details for the executive directors are as follows:  
Executive  
directors 
Number of 
shares granted 
Number of
shares to vest
Number of 
shares to lapse 
Estimated value of
vested shares*
£000
Andi Case 51,434 36,004 15,430 827
Jeff Woyda 23,379 16,365 7,014 346
Peter M. Anker n/a n/a n/a n/a
* The estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three month period from 1 October to 31 December 2015 of £22.96. These shares 
will vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment. 
Comparative LTIP values were based on the 2012 awards which vested in 2015 based on performance to 31 December 2014 and were based on  
a three month price to 31 December 2014 of £21.15. The actual share price at vesting was £23.00. 2014 LTIP amounts in the single figure table have 
not been restated. 
  
Governance www.clarksons.com 53
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   53 
Fees for the non-executive directors  
Non-executive director fee levels are as follows: 
 
2016 
£000 
2015
£000 % change
Chairman 160 140 14%
Non-executive director 55 55 0%
Chair of committee* 18 18 0%
Senior independent director* 18 18 0%
* Incremental fees above base non-executive director fee.  
Directors’ outstanding share incentives (audited) 
The table below sets out details of outstanding share awards held by the executive directors. The share awards have been granted as nil cost options 
under the LTIP, subject to the EPS and TSR performance criteria (50% of the award each) detailed in the LTIP section of this report on page 46. 
 
Interests 
under  
plan at 
1 January 
2015 
Awards 
granted 
in the year 
Awards 
exercised 
in the year 
Awards 
lapsed
in the year
Interests 
under 
plan at 31 
December
2015
Face 
value at 31 
December 
2015
£
% vesting at 
threshold 
performance
Grant 
date 
End of 
performance 
period 
Vesting
date
Date 
exercisable
until
Andi Case 99,388
1
 – – – 99,3882,237,224 25% 16 Dec 09 Dec 11 15 Dec 12 15 Dec 19
  36,581
2
 – – – 36,581823,438 25% 24 Dec 10 Dec 12 23 Dec 13 23 Dec 20
  33,618
3
 – – – 33,618756,741 25% 25 May 11 Dec 13 24 May 14 24 May 21
  42,719
4
 – – – 42,719*961,605 25% 11 May 12 Dec 14 10 May 15 10 May 22
  51,434
5
 – – (15,430) 36,004 810,450 25% 10 May 13 Dec 15 9 May 16 –
  31,682
6
 – – – 31,682713,162 25% 5 Jun 14 Dec 16 4 Jun 17 –
 – 36,748
7
 – – 36,748827,197 25% 17 Apr 15 Dec 17 16 Apr 18 –
Jeff Woyda 15,281
3
 – – – 15,281343,975 25% 25 May 11 Dec 13 24 May 14 24 May 21
  19,418
4
 – – – 19,418*437,099 25% 11 May 12 Dec 14 10 May 15 10 May 22
  23,379
5
 – – (7,014) 16,365 368,376 25% 10 May 13 Dec 15 9 May 16 –
  14,400
6
 – – – 14,400324,144 25% 5 Jun 14 Dec 16 4 Jun 17 –
 – 16,703
7
 – – 16,703375,985 25% 17 Apr 15 Dec 17 16 Apr 18 –
* Vested during the year. 
The share price on the date of the award was 1. £8.06, 2. £11.22, 3. £12.05, 4. £13.50, 5. £16.50, 6. £24.99, 7. £22.16. 
   54 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
54  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Directors’ interests in shares 
The company requires executive directors to build a shareholding equivalent to 100% of the executive directors’ salary. Until this is attained they are 
required to retain 50% of any share award that vests. 
The beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 31 December 2015 were as follows: 
  Number of ordinary shares 
% of salary required  
to be held in shares under  
the shareholding guidelines Guideline met?
  31 December 2015
3
 31 December 2014   
James Hughes-Hallett – – n/a n/a
Andi Case 645,910
4
 646,324 100% Yes
Jeff Woyda 93,149
4
 92,585 100% Yes
Peter M. Anker
1
 529,144
2
 – 100% Yes
Peter Backhouse 3,500 3,500 n/a n/a
Ed Warner 15,000 15,000 n/a n/a
James Morley 4,500 4,500 n/a n/a
Birger Nergaard
1
 205,869 – n/a n/a
1 Appointed on 2 February 2015. 
2 This figure includes restricted stock units. 
3 There was no change in the beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the company between 31 December 2015 and 3 March 2016, being the last practicable 
date before the signing of this report. 
4 These figures include restricted shares and restricted stock units granted as part of annual bonus as follows: 
  Number of shares 
  
Bonus year 
Vesting date 
2011
April 2016
2012
April 2017
2013 
June 2018 
2014
June 2019
Andi Case   29,241 13,103 9,924 15,233
Jeff Woyda   6,235 2,795 2,117 3,249
Peter M. Anker  n/a n/a n/a 2,667*
*Restricted stock units. 
Further restricted share awards will be made in 2016 in respect of up to 10% of the directors’ 2015 bonus. 
Directors’ interests in share options over ordinary shares are as follows: 
Executive  
directors 
Options 
held at 
1 January 
2015 
Options 
granted 
during  
the year 
Options 
exercised 
during 
the year
Options
lapsed
during 
the year
Options 
held at 
31 December 
2015
Exercise
price
£
Date from which 
 exercisable Expiry date
Andi Case Other options 25,000¹ – – – 25,000¹ 9.91 26 October 2010 25 October 2017
 ShareSave 831 – (831) – – 10.82 1 July 2015 31 December 2015
  ShareSave 426 – – (426)
2
– 21.11 1 July 2017 31 December 2017
 ShareSave – 993 – – 993 18.12 1 July 2018 31 December 2018
Jeff Woyda ShareSave 831 – (831) – – 10.82 1 July 2015 31 December 2015
  ShareSave 426 – – (426)
2
– 21.11 1 July 2017 31 December 2017
 ShareSave – 993 – – 993 18.12 1 July 2018 31 December 2018
1 These options are fully vested and were granted for nil consideration. 
2 These ShareSave contracts were closed on 9 September 2015. 
Pensions (audited)  
Pension contributions were £nil (2014: £nil) for Andi Case and £nil (2014: £3,125) for Jeff Woyda, with the balance for both Andi Case and Jeff Woyda 
(up to 15% of salary) paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension (net of employer’s NI) and included in the table on page 51 as pension. Peter M. 
Anker’s pension contribution was NOK 66,000. 
  
Governance www.clarksons.com 55
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   55 
Payment to former directors (audited) 
No payments were made to past executive directors during the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Payments for loss of office (audited) 
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Performance graph 
This graph shows Total Shareholder Return (TSR) (that is, share price growth assuming re-investment of any dividends) of the company over the last six 
financial years compared to the FTSE SmallCap Index, which the committee considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes, and compared to 
the total remuneration of the chief executive. 
The LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity for the chief executive for each of the last six years is as follows: 
  2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
LTIP vesting % 70% 69% 50% 47% 98% 44%
 
  
Total Shareholder Return
xx
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Clarkson PLC on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening nancial year-ends.
Value
Clarkson PLC FTSE SmallCap Index
Source: Thomson Reuters
£0
£100
£200
£300
£400
£500
£600
£700
£800
£900
31-Dec-15 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-08 56 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
56  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Percentage change in remuneration levels  
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the chief executive between the 2014 and 2015 financial years, compared 
to the average for all employees: 
 % change
Chief executive 
Salary and benefits +0.6%
Bonus +2.2%
All employees 
Salary and benefits +2.5%
Bonus -5.0%
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in 2015 compared to 2014: 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m % change
Underlying profit for the year 37.9 25.1 +51%
Dividends 18.2 10.8 +69%
Employee remuneration costs, of which: 186.1 147.9 +26%
Executive directors’ total pay excluding LTIP (continuing) 6.2 5.1 +27%
Executive directors’ annual bonus (continuing) 4.9 4.1 +19%
Remuneration committee 
During the year the remuneration committee comprised the following non-executive directors: James Hughes-Hallett, Peter Backhouse, Ed Warner, 
James Morley and from 5 January 2016, Birger Nergaard. The committee continues to be chaired by Ed Warner. None of the committee members have 
day to day involvement with the business nor do they have any personal financial interest in the matters to be recommended. The company secretary 
acts as secretary to the committee. The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each member is shown in the table below. The 
committee also held informal discussions as required. 
Number of meetings attended out of potential maximum
James Hughes-Hallett 2 out of 3
Peter Backhouse 2 out of 3
Ed Warner 3 out of 3
James Morley 3 out of 3
In particular the board is satisfied that the committee has the range of skills and relevant business experience to reach an independent judgement on the 
suitability of the remuneration policy. The committee’s remit already covers remuneration arrangements for all employees (where the committee reviews 
bonus payments for all employees in the business) and consideration of risk is foremost in the committee’s deliberations. 
 
  
Governance www.clarksons.com 57
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   57 
External advisors 
Following a rigorous and competitive tender process in 2006, New Bridge Street (NBS), part of Aon plc, were appointed by the committee to provide 
independent advice and services that materially assist the committee in their consideration of matters relating to directors’ remuneration, design of share 
incentive plans and measurement of performance against vesting targets. The committee is satisfied that the quality of advice received during the year 
was sufficient and that NBS remain objective and independent. Neither NBS nor Aon plc has any other connection with the company. 
The fees paid by the company to NBS during the financial year for advice on share plans and to the remuneration committee were £55,121 (2014: 
£77,179). No additional fees were paid by the group to Aon plc in respect of other services. 
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct which requires its advice to be objective and impartial. 
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM 
At the 2015 AGM, the directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: 
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 18,945,574 81.81%
Against 2,754,694 11.89%
Discretion 1,458,668 6.30%
Total 23,158,936 100%
Withheld 94,799 –
At the AGM to be held on 6 May 2016 a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution. 
This report to shareholders provides information on the remuneration and share interests of all Clarkson PLC directors and the criteria by which that 
remuneration has been determined. It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the applicable Listing Rules. 
This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Ed Warner  Remuneration committee chairman 
4 March 2016  58 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Audit committee report 
58  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
The primary function of the audit committee is to assist the board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for: 
– scrutinising the robustness and integrity of the group’s financial 
reporting, including accounting issues and judgements;  
– monitoring and reviewing the group’s internal control and risk 
management systems, including internal financial reporting controls,  
and identifying any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in 
their operation; and 
– monitoring and reviewing the activities and performance of the external 
auditors, and notifying the board of any significant concerns arising from 
their audit work. 
In addition to the above responsibilities, the committee has reviewed  
the processes for the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and  
the group’s Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. 
The committee’s terms of reference are reviewed on a regular basis  
to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code and are also 
published on the company’s website. 
The committee met three times during 2015 and addressed three main 
areas in the year – (1) financial reporting and significant issues, (2) internal 
control, internal audit and risk management, and (3) external auditors. 
 
 
 
1 Financial reporting and significant issues 
The audit committee reviewed and considered the following areas in respect of financial reporting and preparation of the interim and annual  
financial statements: 
– the appropriateness of accounting policies used; 
– compliance with internal and external financial reporting standards and policies; 
– principal judgemental accounting matters, based on reports from management and external auditors; and 
– whether or not the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
The committee also reviews reports by the external auditors on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with respect to the work 
undertaken on the audit. The issues and how they were addressed by the committee are set out below: 
Issue Area of focus  How the issue was addressed by the committee 
Recoverability of  
trade receivables 
A number of judgements are made in the calculation of the 
provision, primarily the age of the invoice, the existence of 
any disputes, recent historical payment patterns and the 
debtor’s financial position.  
 
The committee discussed with management the results of its 
review, the internal controls and the composition of the related 
financial information. The committee also discussed with the 
external auditors their review of the provision. 
The committee is satisfied that the judgements made by 
management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures 
have been included in the financial statements. 
Revenue 
recognition 
In the broking and financial segments, the group’s 
entitlement to commission revenue usually depends on  
third party obligations being fulfilled. Since the group has  
no control over this, it is important to recognise revenue at 
the appropriate time. 
 
The committee considered the revenue recognition processes  
in place for all four business segments with management and  
cut-off procedures with the external auditors. 
The committee is satisfied with the control environment and that 
revenue has been recognised in the correct periods. 
Classification  
and recognition  
of adjusting items 
Exceptional items are those which are non-recurring in 
nature and considered to be material in size. In 2015, this 
column in the consolidated income statement represents 
onerous property lease expenses, costs associated with  
the restructuring and integration of the two businesses and 
the release of a provision for dilapidations. 
The ‘acquisition costs’ column includes the amortisation  
of intangible assets, the expensing of the cash and share 
based elements of consideration linking to ongoing 
employment obligations on acquisitions along with the  
fees payable on completion of the Platou acquisition.  
The committee considered the reasons behind showing these 
items separately and therefore excluding the costs from the 
‘underlying’ earnings measures. 
The committee agreed that to include these items in ‘underlying’ 
earnings would be misleading to the users of the financial 
statements due to their nature and size. 
The committee is satisfied that the existing format is consistent 
with the group’s accounting policy. 
Acquisition  
accounting for  
Platou 
Accounting for the acquisition required a fair value exercise 
to assess the assets and liabilities acquired, including 
valuing any separately identifiable intangible assets, both  
of which can be subjective. 
Management utilised an external expert to support them 
with quantifying fair values of identified intangible assets  
in respect of Platou’s forward order book, customer 
relationships and brand. 
 
 
The committee reviewed the external report used by management. 
It also compared the completeness of the intangible assets 
identified against the external auditors’ expectations. 
The committee is satisfied that management has identified the 
relevant intangible assets and has valued them appropriately. 
Following the acquisition of Platou, the audit committee has 
reviewed and monitored business integration, IT integration and 
the implementation of a unified control environment. 
The committee is satisfied that the integration has been successful 
and that reporting and control mechanisms are now integrated 
across both business lines and corporate entities. 
Governance
Audit committee report www.clarksons.com 59
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   59 
2 Internal control, internal audit  
and risk management 
The audit committee undertakes an annual review of the group’s  
internal controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management and reviews the external auditors’ report in relation to  
internal control observations.  
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the group’s risk management systems and processes. 
Further details of risk management are shown on pages 32 to 33. 
The company continually seeks to improve and update existing 
procedures and to introduce new controls where necessary. The risk 
management system is designed to identify principal risks and to provide 
assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed. As an 
ongoing process, the audit committee oversees the development of the 
internal control procedures which provide assurance to the committee  
that the controls which are operating in the group are effective and 
sufficient to counteract the risks to which the company is exposed.  
No significant control deficiencies were identified during the year. 
The need for an internal audit function is reviewed regularly by the  
board and the audit committee. After taking into account the size and 
structure of the group, including the changes following the completion  
of the Platou acquisition, the audit committee concludes that it was 
appropriate in view of the scale and regulatory nature of its operations to 
establish an internal audit function for the banking and finance operations 
headquartered in Norway, and has appointed Ernst & Young to perform 
this function on an outsourced basis. The committee have concluded  
that there is no immediate requirement for an internal audit function in 
respect of the group’s other activities, but will continue to keep this issue 
under consideration. 
The audit committee, in conjunction with the board, has established 
arrangements by which employees of the group may, in confidence,  
raise concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing. 
3 External auditors 
The committee reviews and makes recommendations to the board 
regarding the re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors. 
The audit committee considered the following: 
– quality and effectiveness of the audit for the prior year; 
– external audit strategy for the current year; 
– overall work plan; 
– terms of engagement; 
– external auditors’ overall performance and independence;  
– effectiveness of the overall audit process;  
– length of appointment as external auditors (current length: seven  
years); and 
– level of non-audit and audit fees. 
To ensure that the auditors maintain their independence and objectivity, 
the audit committee has implemented a policy which is designed to  
ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not have an impact  
on the external auditors’ independence and objectivity. It restricts the 
engagement of the auditor in relation to non-audit services, whilst 
recognising that there are some types of work, such as accounting  
and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the company’s 
business is advantageous.  
It also requires that individual engagements above a certain fee level 
may only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the committee  
or the committee chairman. 
During the year the auditors provided tax advisory and compliance 
services and other assurance services with fees of £0.1m and  
£0.1m respectively.  
The committee meets privately on a regular basis with the external  
auditors in the absence of management. 
The committee has discussed the requirements of the Code and  
the final order published by the Competition and Markets Authority in 
respect of tendering the group’s external audit and has recommended  
to the board that it does not carry out a tender process for 2016;  
the next tender process is due in 2019. In making this assessment,  
the committee has considered the performance of the current external 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), who have served since 
2009. The committee does not consider that PwC’s independence  
or effectiveness is impaired. Accordingly the audit committee has 
recommended to the board that PwC be reappointed as auditor  
and that a resolution be put to shareholders at the AGM. 
 
 
James Morley  Audit committee chairman 
4 March 2016 
Please see risk management on  
pages 32 to 33 for more information 60 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Directors’ report 
60  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
The directors’ report required under the Companies Act 2006, together 
with the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
comprises sections of the annual report incorporated by reference as set 
out below which, taken together, contain the information to be included  
in the annual report, where applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.4. 
Going concern Page 32
Board membership Pages 38  39
Dividends Page 31
Directors’ long-term incentives Pages 43  57
Waiver of directors’ emoluments Page 43
Corporate governance report Pages 40  42
Future developments of the business of the group Pages 10  29
Employee equality, diversity and involvement Pages 34  36
Carbon emissions Page 37
Information to the independent auditor Page 61
Dividend waiver Page 99
Financial risk management Pages 101  103
Subsidiaries    Pages 121  124
Shareholder information 
Share capital and control 
Details of the company’s share capital are shown in note 23 to the financial 
statements. The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are 
set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained free of charge from 
the Companies House website at http://www.gov.uk/get-information-
about-a-company. 
The executive directors are expected to maintain a shareholding equivalent 
of 100% of their respective salaries. 
A transfer of shares is only permitted for shares which are fully paid up.  
A transfer form must be duly stamped (if required) and made out in favour 
of a single transferee or no more than four joint transferees. The transfer 
form must be delivered to the company’s registrars, Computershare, 
accompanied by the share certificate to which it relates or such other 
evidence that proves the title of the transferor. Please contact 
Computershare on +44 (0) 370 707 1055 or online at: 
http://www.clarksons.com/investors/registrar/. 
The holders of ordinary shares have the right to: 
– receive dividends when declared;  
– receive the company’s report and financial statements; 
– attend and speak at general meetings of the company; and 
– appoint proxies and exercise voting rights at general meetings.  
There are no restrictions or special conditions regarding voting rights  
and control of the company. Major shareholders have the same voting 
rights per share as all other shareholders. Shareholders who wish to 
appoint a proxy to exercise their voting rights at the AGM are required  
to submit a proxy voting form to the company no later than 48 hours  
prior to the time of the meeting using the following link: 
http://www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy. 
Shares acquired through Clarksons’ share schemes rank equally with 
other shares in issue and have no special rights. 
Restrictions on transfer of shares 
There are no restrictions on transfers of ordinary shares in the company 
other than:  
– certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws  
or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing; 
– pursuant to the company’s share dealing practices whereby the 
directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the 
company’s shares;  
– certain restrictions on securities arising from company acquisitions 
(including the Platou acquisition); and 
– under the company’s employee long term incentive plans. 
Change of control 
The company is not party to any significant agreements that would take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid. 
Details of the executive directors’ service contracts, including contractual 
arrangements in connection with a change of control of the company,  
are set out in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 48 to 49. 
Upon a change of control, all unvested awards under the 2004 Clarkson 
PLC LTIP would vest to the extent that any performance conditions 
attaching to the relevant award have been achieved. 
All unvested awards under the 2014 Clarkson PLC LTIP shall vest on  
the date of such event. In the case of performance awards, the number  
of shares to vest will be determined by the committee subject to the 
performance or any other conditions and/or pro rata reduction in the  
case of leavers. 
Notifiable interests in share capital 
The following interests have been disclosed to the company by major 
shareholders under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTR) as at the end of the financial year and at 3 March 2016 (being the 
last practicable date prior to the date of this report):  
 31-Dec-15 3-Mar-16
Franklin Templeton Investment  
Management Limited 5.11% 12.33%
RS Platou Holdings AS 7.10% 7.10%
Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5.01% 5.01%
Legal & General Investment  
Management Limited < 5% < 5%
Information provided to the company pursuant to the DTR is published  
on a Regulatory Information Service and on the company’s website at: 
www.clarksons.com/news. 
In addition, as at 3 March 2016, employees directly held 27.58 %  
of the company’s share capital and 5.34 % was held by employee  
share trusts for use under the company’s various incentive schemes. 
Interests in the shares of the company or derivatives or any other  
financial instrument relating to those shares, conducted by the directors  
of the company on their own account, notified to the company pursuant  
to Rule 3 of the DTR, are set out in the directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 53 to 54. 
At the 2015 AGM the company’s shareholders authorised the company, 
for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make 
market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum aggregate amount 
of 3,011,675 shares (representing 10% of the company’s share capital as 
at 2 April 2015). This authority is due to expire at the end of the 2016 AGM 
and a resolution will be put to shareholders at that meeting to extend the 
authority for a further period. The company has not acquired or disposed 
of any interests in its own shares.  
 
 
By order of the board 
Penny Watson  Company secretary 
4 March 2016 
Governance
Directors’ report www.clarksons.com 61
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
Directors’ responsibilities statement 
www.clarksons.com   61 
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with  
the auditors’ statement of their responsibilities set out in their reports on 
pages 62 to 67 and 105 to 106, is made to distinguish the respective 
responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the  
financial statements.  
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the  
directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements  
for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the 
group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit 
or loss of the group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
the directors are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;  
– state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union  
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of  
the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the directors’ remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each director 
at the time of approval of this report confirms that so far as he is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditors are 
unaware, and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information. 
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic 
report on pages 2 to 37. The financial position of the group, its cash  
flows and liquidity position are described in the financial review. The risk 
management section of the strategic report and note 26 to the financial 
statements include a description of the group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and  
its exposures to credit and liquidity risks.  
The group has considerable financial resources available and a strong 
balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 30 to 31.  
As a result of this, the directors believe that the group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully despite the challenging market 
backdrop. The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group  
has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages  
38 to 39 of this annual report, confirm that: 
– to the best of their knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, 
which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by  
the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the group;  
– to the best of their knowledge, the strategic report includes a fair  
review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the group, together with a description of principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces; and 
– they consider the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. 
 
 
On behalf of the board 
James Hughes-Hallett  Chairman 
4 March 2016 
Directors’ responsibilities statement 62 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Independent auditors’ report to  
the members of Clarkson PLC 
62  Clarkson plc Annual Report 2015 
Report on the consolidated financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Clarkson PLC’s consolidated financial statements (the financial statements): 
– give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; and 
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: 
– the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015; 
– the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended; 
– the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; 
– the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and 
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Certain share-based payment and directors’ remuneration disclosures which are required by the financial reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements in notes 21 
and 28 respectively and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
 
 
Materiality 
– Overall group materiality: £2.5m which represents 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional 
items and acquisition costs. 
Audit scope 
– We performed audit work over the complete financial information for reporting units which accounted for 
approximately 91% (2014: 81%) of the group’s revenue and 93% (2014: 92%) of the group’s profit before 
taxation adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs. These reporting units comprised certain 
operating businesses and centralised functions. 
– Conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other 
reporting units. 
Areas of focus 
– Acquisition accounting for RS Platou ASA; 
– Recoverability of trade receivables; 
– Revenue recognition; and 
– Classification and recognition of the adjusting items (exceptional items and acquisition costs). 
 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked  
at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as ‘areas  
of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Independent auditors’ report to  
the members of Clarkson PLC
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus www.clarksons.com 63
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
www.clarksons.com   63 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Acquisition accounting for RS Platou ASA (Platou) 
Refer to page 58 (audit committee report), note 12 of the financial 
statements and note 2.3 for the directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.  
The group acquired RS Platou ASA on 2 February 2015 for consideration 
of £249.9m. Accounting for the acquisition required a fair value exercise  
to assess the assets and liabilities acquired, including valuing any separately 
identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. The valuation of intangibles can 
be a particularly subjective process.  
Fair value adjustments 
Management engaged an external expert to support them with quantifying 
fair values of identified intangibles. Management identified £21.9m of 
intangible assets in respect of Platou’s forward order book, customer 
relationships and brand.  
The fair value of these intangible assets was judgemental as it required 
management assumptions including on customer attrition rates, 
recoverability of the forward order book and growth rates for existing 
customer revenues. The determination of the discount rate applied to  
the fair value models was also judgemental as it required the calculation  
of a risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital. 
Carrying value at 31 December 2015 
Given the quantum of goodwill and intangible asset additions in the year 
(£254.5m) and the current economic backdrop (as described by the 
directors in the business review section of this annual report and in the  
3 November 2015 market trading update), we also focused on the  
goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment at the year-end, 
including the related disclosures made by management. No impairment 
charge has been recorded by management against these balances at  
31 December 2015. 
 
 
 
 
We assessed the completeness and quantum of intangible assets identified 
by management against our own expectations, formed from review of the 
due diligence reports prepared by management’s professional advisors 
during the acquisition, and disclosures surrounding the rationale for the 
transactions. We determined that the analysis prepared by management 
from these reports appropriately reflects the fair value exercise based on 
our understanding of Platou’s particular circumstances and our knowledge 
and experience of the industry.  
We assessed the work performed on the purchase price allocation by 
management’s external expert, utilising our in-house expertise to evaluate 
the purchase price allocation. In doing so we evaluated the professional 
competence and objectivity of that expert and performed the following: 
– in relation to the forward order book, we compared assumptions made 
on attrition and recoverability with historical patterns in the business to 
verify that assumptions were reasonable; 
– we challenged management on the completeness of customer 
relationships and whether these existed in other areas of the business  
not included in the determined fair value; and 
– we sensitised the discount rate and other key inputs and assumptions  
to ascertain the extent of change that would be required for the fair value 
to be materially misstated. 
From our procedures, we concluded that the identified intangibles were 
complete and the arising values were within a materially reasonable range. 
In forming this conclusion, we considered the level of resulting goodwill as 
a proportion of the total consideration paid and benchmarked this against 
similar transactions in the market. We discussed the results of this analysis 
with management and management’s expert and ensured appropriate 
disclosure was included within the annual report which describe the nature 
of the arising goodwill. 
Based on the work performed in this area, we have determined that  
the relevant intangible assets and goodwill had been identified and  
valued appropriately. 
In addition, we verified that the basis for allocating the Platou-acquired 
goodwill and intangibles to both functional currency and CGUs is 
reasonable and consistent with internal management reporting and,  
where relevant, the purchase price allocation exercise described above.  
We found the allocation exercise was carried out satisfactorily. 
At the year-end, we evaluated the directors’ future cash flow projections  
for all CGUs and the process by which they were drawn up, including 
testing the underlying calculations. We found no exceptions. Based on  
the work performed in this area we have determined that management’s 
impairment assessment has been carried out appropriately and that the 
disclosure made in note 12 appropriately highlights the current market risk. 
   64 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued 
 
 
64  Clarkson plc Annual Report 2015 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Recoverability of trade receivables 
Refer to page 58 (audit committee report), note 14 of the financial 
statements and note 2.3 for the directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.  
At the year-end the group had trade receivables of £62.1m before 
provisions for impairment of £12.3m. As set out in the business review 
section of the strategic report, the shipping industry has faced a 
challenging year and the global shipping market continues to be impacted 
by certain macro-economic factors such as oil prices and certain freight 
rates. Accordingly, the group experienced uncertainty over the collectability 
of trade receivables from specific customers.  
The determination as to whether a trade receivable is collectable involves 
management judgement. Specific factors management considers include 
the age of the balance, location of customers, existence of disputes, 
recent historical payment patterns and any other available information 
concerning the creditworthiness of the counterparty.  
Management uses this information to determine whether a provision  
for impairment is required either for a specific transaction or for a 
customer’s balance overall. We focused on this area because it requires  
a high level of management judgement and due to the materiality of the 
amounts involved. 
 
 
We tested aged balances where no provision was recognised to check that 
there were no indicators of impairment. This included verifying if payments 
had been received since the year-end, reviewing historical payment patterns 
and any correspondence with customers on expected settlement dates.  
We selected a sample of the larger trade receivable balances where  
a provision for impairment of trade receivables was recognised and 
understood the rationale behind management’s judgement. In order to 
evaluate the appropriateness of these judgements we verified whether 
balances were overdue, the customer’s historical payment patterns and 
whether any post year-end payments had been received up to the date  
of completing our audit procedures.  
We also obtained corroborative evidence including correspondence 
supporting any disputes between the parties involved, attempts by 
management to recover the amounts outstanding and on the credit  
status of significant counterparties where available.  
By performing the procedures mentioned above we also considered 
management’s rationale where provisions were recognised on transactions 
that were not overdue as at the balance sheet date and verified these were 
appropriately supported. In assessing the appropriateness of the overall 
provision for impairment we considered the consistency of management’s 
application of policy for recognising provisions with the prior year and in  
the context of the current macro-economic challenges. Specifically  
we considered:  
i) how much of prior years’ provisions had been utilised for bad debt write 
offs during the year; and  
ii) prior year provision amounts released where a customer had paid.  
Releases of the provision during the year as disclosed in note 14, included 
some infrequent payments of overdue amounts from customers where a 
provision continues to be recognised for new invoices raised. Despite these 
payments, management continues to provide for such customers on the 
basis there still remains ongoing uncertainty over their underlying financial 
condition as indicated by the ad hoc timing of payments beyond dates due. 
From the work we have performed we consider the level of provisioning to 
be consistent with the evidence obtained. 
Revenue recognition 
Refer to page 58 (audit committee report), notes 3 and 4 of the financial 
statements and note 2.3 for the directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.  
The group’s entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and 
financial segments is dependent upon the fulfilment of certain obligations, 
for example stage completion of a vessel build in broking or formal 
approval of a debt or equity transaction in securities between two or  
more third parties over which the group has no control.  
Consideration is therefore required as to whether the parties’ obligations 
have been fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised.  
Some of these transactions, such as within the sale and purchase, 
offshore or corporate finance revenue streams, are individually significant  
in value. Consistent with the prior year, we therefore focused on these 
areas, particularly around the year-end, where there is a risk that large 
transactions may be recorded in the incorrect period.  
The other revenue streams, such as support and research, involve  
limited judgement and are comparatively less significant. Revenue in 
respect of these streams is recognised when the service is completed  
or when the products are despatched, as explained further in note 2  
of the financial statements. There is therefore less risk of a material  
cut-off error in these streams.  
 
For the sale and purchase, offshore and securities transactions near the 
year-end, we tested that revenue cut-off was appropriately determined.  
We selected a sample of transactions and agreed the details of these 
transactions to underlying contractual information or other supporting 
documents which demonstrated the timing of when obligations had been 
fulfilled by the parties to the transaction.  
From the evidence obtained, we found no material instances of revenue 
being recognised in the incorrect period. 
 
Governance www.clarksons.com 65
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
www.clarksons.com   65 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Classification and recognition of adjusting items (exceptional items  
and acquisition costs) 
Refer to page 58 (audit committee report), note 2.1 (basis of preparation)  
of the financial statements and note 2.3 for the directors’ disclosures  
of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates for  
further information.  
The group excludes adjusting items (exceptional and acquisition costs) 
from its ‘underlying’ earnings measure. The directors believe that  
alternative or additional performance measures can provide the users  
of the financial statements with a better understanding of the group’s 
underlying financial performance and strategy, if properly used. If improperly 
used and presented these measures could mislead the users of the 
financial statements by obscuring the real profitability and financial position 
of the group. 
Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this 
classification. There can also be judgement as to the point at which  
costs should be recognised and the amount to record.  
Included in adjusting items were: 
– Exceptional items: £2.3m in respect of the group’s head office move 
inclusive of £1.9m overlapping rent, reorganisation costs of £1.2m and  
a £1.3m dilapidation provision release in respect of St. Magnus House. 
Exceptional items are explained further in note 5. 
– Acquisition costs: £9.2m in respect of amortisation of intangibles acquired 
as part of the Platou and other prior acquisitions, £1.1m finance costs in 
respect of loan notes issued in respect of the Platou acquisition, £2.8m 
cash and share-based payment charges linked to acquisition-related 
employee service and £3.1m transaction costs. Acquisition costs are 
explained further in note 6.  
We focused on the accuracy of charges included in adjusting items, which 
are presented consistent with prior periods. 
 
 
 
We assessed the nature of these exceptional items to confirm they are 
non-recurring in nature and recognised and presented in accordance  
with the group’s disclosed accounting policy.  
With respect to the inclusion of the dilapidation provision release as an 
exceptional item, we considered FRC guidance on the presentation and 
consistency of reporting exceptional items, which requires a consistent 
treatment for income statement items from one year to the next. As the 
provision was established through underlying earnings, it could be argued 
that this treatment as exceptional appeared inconsistent. Management’s 
view was that, whilst the charge was historically in underlying earnings,  
this was spread across 10 years but the release in one year which is more 
material to understanding the 2015 performance. Separating the items 
provides users with clearer visibility. We accepted this view as the FRC 
guidance has been considered and there is clear disclosure of the item  
in the annual report.   
In relation to overlapping rent we examined lease agreements, confirmed 
office vacation dates and verified the accuracy of management’s 
computation of the amount of overlapping rent.  
We tested directly attributable transaction and subsequent restructuring 
costs to supporting invoices, payroll records and agreements with advisors 
to verify these related to the Platou acquisition and were incurred during  
the year. 
In respect of other adjusting items we verified that management’s 
computations of the costs were accurate by agreeing to corroborating 
documentation and, where applicable, re-performing management’s 
calculations. We have also assessed the extent to which ‘underlying’ 
financial information is given prominence in the annual report, whether 
it is clearly, accurately and consistently applied and whether the ‘underlying’ 
financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form and context  
in which it appears in the annual report. From the evidence obtained, we 
found no material exceptions to the presentation of adjusting items as 
adopted by management, in line with the disclosed accounting policy. 
 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole,  
taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. 
The financial statements are a consolidated number of reporting units, comprising the group’s operating businesses and centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the 
group engagement team, or by component auditors of other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction. Where the work was 
performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
We identified 7 reporting units, 3 of which were significant due to their size. These comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which 
required an audit of their complete financial information. We also conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of  
a number of other reporting units. This gave us coverage of 93% of the group’s profit before taxation adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs 
and 91% of revenue, and, together with the additional procedures performed at the group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the 
evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement 
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall group materiality £2.5m (2014: £1.7m). 
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs. 
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and 
acquisition costs, because, in our view, this represents the most appropriate measure of underlying 
performance. 
   66 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Governance 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued 
 
 
66  Clarkson plc Annual Report 2015 
Materiality continued 
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £125,000 (2014: £170,000) as well  
as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ report, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors’ report 
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to add  
or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ report, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least  
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis  
is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion: 
– the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and 
– the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 40 to 42 with respect to internal control and risk management systems 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
– information in the annual report is: 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or 
– otherwise misleading.  
We have no exceptions  
to report. 
– the explanation given by the directors on page 61, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), as to why the annual report does not include a statement that they consider the 
annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the group’s position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit. 
 
We have no exceptions  
to report. 
– the section of the annual report on page 58, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the 
audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee. 
 
We have no exceptions  
to report. 
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency  
or liquidity of the group 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: 
– the directors’ confirmation on page 32 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that  
they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten 
its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
 We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to. 
– the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.  We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to. 
– the directors’ explanation on page 32 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how 
they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that 
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
 We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
group and the directors’ report in relation to the longer-term viability of the group, set out on page 32. Our review was substantially less in scope than an 
audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in 
Governance www.clarksons.com 67
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
www.clarksons.com   67 
alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 61, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
– the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating 
the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us 
to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements 
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information  
in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
 
 
John Waters  Senior statutory auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 March 2016  68 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
68  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
 Notes 
Before 
exceptional 
items and 
acquisition 
costs 
£m 
Exceptional
items
(note 5)
£m
Acquisition
costs
(note 6)
£m
2015
After
exceptional
items and
acquisition
costs
£m
Before
exceptional
item and
acquisition
costs
£m
Exceptional 
item 
(note 5) 
£m 
Acquisition
costs
(note 6)
£m
2014
After
exceptional
item and
acquisition
costs
£m
Revenue 3, 4 301.8 – – 301.8 237.9 – – 237.9
Cost of sales  (10.3) – – (10.3) (13.3) – – (13.3)
Trading profit  291.5 – – 291.5 224.6 – – 224.6
Other income  – 1.3 – 1.3 – – – –
Administrative expenses  (242.0) (3.8) (15.1) (260.9) (191.3) (1.6) (7.0) (199.9)
Operating profit 3, 4 49.5 (2.5) (15.1) 31.9 33.3 (1.6) (7.0) 24.7
Finance revenue 3 2.5 – – 2.5 0.7 – – 0.7
Finance costs 3 (1.1) – (1.1) (2.2) – – – –
Other finance costs – pensions 3, 22 (0.4) – – (0.4) (0.2) – – (0.2)
Profit before taxation  50.5 (2.5) (16.2) 31.8 33.8 (1.6) (7.0) 25.2
Taxation 7 (12.6) 0.6 2.5 (9.5) (8.7) 0.3 0.4 (8.0)
Profit for the year  37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3 25.1 (1.3) (6.6) 17.2
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the parent  35.3 (1.9) (13.7) 19.7 25.1 (1.3) (6.6) 17.2
Non-controlling interests  2.6 – – 2.6 – – – –
Profit for the year  37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3 25.1 (1.3) (6.6) 17.2
    
Earnings per share    
Basic 8 121.9p 68.2p134.2p 91.9p
Diluted 8 120.5p 67.4p130.8p 89.6p
 
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 
 Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit for the year  22.3 17.2
Other comprehensive loss:   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:   
Actuarial gain/(loss) on employee benefit schemes – net of tax  22 7.2 (8.2)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:   
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations   (20.4) 1.5
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax  24 (1.1) (3.4)
Other comprehensive loss  (14.3) (10.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year   8.0 7.1
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent  6.3 7.1
Non-controlling interests  1.7 –
Total comprehensive income for the year  8.0 7.1
Financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
68  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
 Notes 
Before 
exceptional 
items and 
acquisition 
costs 
£m 
Exceptional
items
(note 5)
£m
Acquisition
costs
(note 6)
£m
2015
After
exceptional
items and
acquisition
costs
£m
Before
exceptional
item and
acquisition
costs
£m
Exceptional 
item 
(note 5) 
£m 
Acquisition
costs
(note 6)
£m
2014
After
exceptional
item and
acquisition
costs
£m
Revenue 3, 4 301.8 – – 301.8 237.9 – – 237.9
Cost of sales  (10.3) – – (10.3) (13.3) – – (13.3)
Trading profit  291.5 – – 291.5 224.6 – – 224.6
Other income  – 1.3 – 1.3 – – – –
Administrative expenses  (242.0) (3.8) (15.1) (260.9) (191.3) (1.6) (7.0) (199.9)
Operating profit 3, 4 49.5 (2.5) (15.1) 31.9 33.3 (1.6) (7.0) 24.7
Finance revenue 3 2.5 – – 2.5 0.7 – – 0.7
Finance costs 3 (1.1) – (1.1) (2.2) – – – –
Other finance costs – pensions 3, 22 (0.4) – – (0.4) (0.2) – – (0.2)
Profit before taxation  50.5 (2.5) (16.2) 31.8 33.8 (1.6) (7.0) 25.2
Taxation 7 (12.6) 0.6 2.5 (9.5) (8.7) 0.3 0.4 (8.0)
Profit for the year  37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3 25.1 (1.3) (6.6) 17.2
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the parent  35.3 (1.9) (13.7) 19.7 25.1 (1.3) (6.6) 17.2
Non-controlling interests  2.6 – – 2.6 – – – –
Profit for the year  37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3 25.1 (1.3) (6.6) 17.2
    
Earnings per share    
Basic 8 121.9p 68.2p134.2p 91.9p
Diluted 8 120.5p 67.4p130.8p 89.6p
 
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 
 Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit for the year  22.3 17.2
Other comprehensive loss:   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:   
Actuarial gain/(loss) on employee benefit schemes – net of tax  22 7.2 (8.2)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:   
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations   (20.4) 1.5
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax  24 (1.1) (3.4)
Other comprehensive loss  (14.3) (10.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year   8.0 7.1
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent  6.3 7.1
Non-controlling interests  1.7 –
Total comprehensive income for the year  8.0 7.1
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income www.clarksons.com 69
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   69 
 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 10 30.8 7.7
Investment property  11 1.2 0.3
Intangible assets  12 263.2 40.4
Trade and other receivables  14 1.1 0.4
Investments  15 1.9 1.9
Deferred tax asset  7 12.5 15.0
  310.7 65.7
  
Current assets  
Inventories  16 0.9 1.4
Trade and other receivables  14 61.3 42.7
Income tax receivable   1.7 1.5
Investments  15 5.7 25.3
Cash and cash equivalents  17 168.4 152.9
  238.0 223.8
  
Current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 (23.1) –
Trade and other payables 19 (139.3) (102.2)
Income tax payable  (5.9) (2.9)
Provisions  20 (0.2) (3.0)
  (168.5) (108.1)
Net current assets   69.5 115.7
  
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 (23.0) –
Trade and other payables  19 (8.1) (1.8)
Employee benefits  22 (4.1) (10.3)
Deferred tax liability  7 (4.1) (2.0)
  (39.3) (14.1)
Net assets   340.9 167.3
  
Capital and reserves  
Share capital  23 7.6 5.2
Other reserves  24 194.2 35.5
Retained earnings   136.2 126.6
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent  338.0 167.3
Non-controlling interests  2.9 –
Total equity   340.9 167.3
The financial statements on pages 68 to 104 were approved by the board on 4 March 2016, and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
James Hughes-Hallett  Chairman   Jeff Woyda  Chief financial officer and chief operating officer  
 
Registered number: 1190238 
 
Consolidated balance sheet 70 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 
70  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent  
 Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m  
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 5.2 35.5 126.6 167.3 – 167.3
Profit for the year – – 19.7 19.7 2.6 22.3
Other comprehensive income/(loss):   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – 
net of tax  22 – – 7.2 7.2 – 7.2
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation  
of foreign operations 24 – (19.5) – (19.5) (0.9) (20.4)
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax 24 – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income  
for the year – (20.6) 26.9 6.3 1.7 8.0
Transactions with owners:   
Employee share schemes 24 – 0.6 0.3 0.9 – 0.9
Share issues  23,24 2.4 178.7 – 181.1 – 181.1
Tax on other employee benefits  7 – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Tax on other items in equity 7 – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiary 12 – – – – 10.8 10.8
Dividend paid  9 – – (18.2) (18.2) (9.6) (27.8)
 2.4 179.3 (17.3) 164.4 1.2 165.6
Balance at 31 December 2015 7.6 194.2 136.2 338.0 2.9 340.9
 
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent
 Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Other  
reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 4.7 35.7 97.3 137.7
Profit for the year – – 17.2  17.2
Other comprehensive income/(loss):   
Actuarial loss on employee benefit schemes – net of tax  22 – – (8.2) (8.2)
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 24 – 1.5 – 1.5
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax 24 – (3.4) – (3.4)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year – (1.9) 9.0 7.1
Transactions with owners:   
Net ESOP shares utilised  24 – 0.7 – 0.7
Gain on ESOP shares  – – 0.9 0.9
Share-based payments 24 – 1.0 – 1.0
Share issues  23, 24 0.5 30.1 – 30.6
Transfer 24 – (30.1) 30.1 –
Tax on other employee benefits  7 – – 0.1 0.1
Dividend paid  9 – – (10.8) (10.8)
 0.5 1.7 20.3 22.5
Balance at 31 December 2014 5.2 35.5 126.6 167.3
 
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity www.clarksons.com 71
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   71 
 Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before taxation  31.8 25.2
Adjustments for:  
Foreign exchange differences 3 (1.9) (4.4)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  3, 10 4.2 2.9
Depreciation of investment property 3, 11 – 0.1
Share-based payment expense 21 1.6 1.4
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment   (0.1) –
Loss on sale of investments  0.3 –
Amortisation of intangibles 3, 12 9.2 0.1
Impairment of intangibles 3, 12 – 0.2
Impairment of investments  – 0.2
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in the income statement  (2.3) (1.9)
Finance revenue  3 (2.5) (0.7)
Finance costs 3 2.2 –
Other finance costs – pensions  3 0.4 0.2
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 16 0.5 (0.5)
Decrease in trade and other receivables   20.8 6.0
(Decrease)/increase in bonus accrual  (11.1) 14.8
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables  (12.5) 0.8
(Decrease)/increase in provisions 20 (2.8) 1.0
Cash generated from operations  37.8 45.4
Income tax paid  (13.1) (7.6)
Net cash flow from operating activities  24.7 37.8
Cash flows from investing activities  
Interest received 3 0.8 0.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10 (24.4) (1.8)
Proceeds from sale of investments 15 6.8 –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  0.3 0.1
Purchase of investments  – (0.2)
Transfer from/(to) current investments (funds on deposit)  20.0 (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including settlement of deferred consideration  (26.5) (4.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents acquired on acquisitions 12 43.2 0.5
Dividends received from investments 3 1.7 0.2
Net cash flow from investing activities  21.9 (5.3)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Interest paid  (1.1) –
Dividend paid 9 (18.2) (10.8)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests  (1.7) –
Repayment of borrowings  (12.8) –
Proceeds from shares issued (net of transaction costs) 23 1.2 30.6
Net cash flow from financing activities  (32.6) 19.8
  
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  14.0 52.3
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  152.9 96.9
Net foreign exchange differences  1.5 3.7
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 17 168.4 152.9
Consolidated cash flow statement 72 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 
72  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
1 Corporate information 
The group and parent company financial statements of Clarkson PLC  
for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the directors on 4 March 2016. Clarkson 
PLC is a Public Limited Company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, 
incorporated and registered in England and Wales and domiciled in  
the UK.  
The term ‘company’ refers to Clarkson PLC and ‘group’ refers to the 
company, its consolidated subsidiaries and the relevant assets and 
liabilities of the share purchase trusts.  
Copies of the annual report will be circulated to all shareholders and will 
also be available from the registered office of the company at Commodity 
Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF. 
2 Statement of accounting policies 
2.1 Basis of preparation 
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in 
preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values 
are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds sterling  
(£0.1m) except when otherwise indicated. 
The term ‘underlying’ excludes the impact of exceptional items and 
acquisition costs. 
The consolidated income statement is shown in columnar format to  
assist with understanding the group’s results by presenting profit for the 
period before exceptional items and acquisition costs. Items which are 
non-recurring in nature and considered to be material in size are shown  
as ‘exceptional items’. The column ‘exceptional items’ represents the 
additional rent, onerous lease provision, dilapidation provision release  
and reorganisation costs in relation to the Platou acquisition. The column 
‘acquisition costs’ includes the amortisation of intangible assets, the 
expensing of the cash and share-based elements of consideration linked 
to ongoing employment obligations on acquisitions, acquisition-related 
professional fees and interest on the loan note obligations. These notes 
form an integral part of the financial statements on pages 68 to 71. 
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going 
concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by 
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments)  
at fair value through profit or loss. 
The group has considerable financial resources available and a strong 
balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 30 to 31.  
As a result of this, the directors believe that the group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully, despite the challenging market 
backdrop. The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group  
has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the next 12 months. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently  
to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
The group’s consolidated financial statements incorporate the results  
and net assets of Clarkson PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings made 
up to 31 December each year. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has control. The group 
controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 
See note T to the parent company financial statements for full details  
on subsidiaries. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements  
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the group. 
All inter-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation, however for the purposes of segmental 
reporting, internal arm’s-length recharges are included within the 
appropriate segments. 
2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures 
New and amended standards adopted by the group 
The annual improvements (2011-2013) to existing standards which are 
mandatory for the group for the first time for the financial year beginning  
on or after 1 January 2015 have had no material impact on the group. 
There were no other new IFRSs or interpretations issued by the IFRS 
Interpretation Committee (IFRS IC) that had to be implemented during  
the year that significantly affects these financial statements. 
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not  
yet effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2016 and not 
early adopted. 
As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following 
standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective (and in 
some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The group has not 
applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of these 
financial statements. 
– Amendment to IAS 19 regarding defined benefit plans 
– Amendment to IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ on acquisition of an 
interest in a joint operation 
– Amendment to IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38, 
‘Intangible assets’ on depreciation and amortisation 
– Amendments to IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ and  
IAS 28, ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ 
– IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ 
– IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ 
– Amendments to IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, regarding general 
hedge accounting 
– Annual improvements (2010-2012) and (2012-2014) 
– Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ on the 
disclosure initiative 
– IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ 
The impact on the group’s financial statements of the future adoption  
of these and other new standards and interpretations is still under review. 
The group does not expect, with the exception of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue  
from contracts with customers’ and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, that any of  
these changes will have a material effect on the results or net assets   
of the group. 
There were no other new IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the group. 
 
  
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements www.clarksons.com 73
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   73 
2.3 Accounting judgements and estimates 
The preparation of the group’s financial statements requires management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure 
of contingent liabilities, at the reporting date. However, uncertainty about 
these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could 
require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability 
affected in the future. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course 
of business. Trade receivables are classified as current assets if collection 
is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the 
business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current assets. 
The provision for impairment of receivables represents management’s  
best estimate at the balance sheet date. A number of judgements are 
made in the calculation of the provision, primarily the age of the invoice,  
the existence of any disputes, recent historical payment patterns and the 
debtor’s financial position. 
Revenue recognition 
The group’s entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and 
financial segments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain 
obligations, for example stage completion of a vessel build in broking or 
formal approval of a debt or equity transaction in finance, between two or 
more third parties over which the group has no control. Consideration is 
therefore required as to whether the parties’ obligations have been fulfilled 
and the commission revenue can be recognised. 
Classification and recognition of adjusting items 
The group excludes adjusting items (exceptional items and acquisition 
costs) from its ‘underlying’ earnings measure. The directors believe that 
alternative or additional performance measures can provide the users  
of the financial statements with a better understanding of the group’s 
underlying financial performance and strategy, if properly used. If 
improperly used and presented these measures could mislead the users 
of the financial statements by obscuring the real profitability and financial 
position of the group.  
Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this 
classification. There can also be judgement as to the point at which  
costs should be recognised and the amount to record.  
Acquisition accounting for RS Platou ASA 
The group acquired RS Platou ASA on 2 February 2015 for £249.9m 
consideration. Accounting for the acquisition required a fair value  
exercise to assess the assets and liabilities acquired, including valuing  
any separately identifiable intangible assets, both of which can be a 
particularly subjective process.  
2.4 Property, plant and equipment 
Land held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for 
administrative purposes, is stated on the balance sheet at its historic cost. 
Freehold and long leasehold properties, leasehold improvements, office 
furniture and equipment and motor vehicles are recorded at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost 
includes the original purchase price of the asset. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is charged on a 
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life (after allowing for estimated 
residual value based on current prices) of the asset, and is charged from 
the time an asset becomes available for its intended use. Estimated useful 
lives are as follows: 
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-60 years 
Leasehold improvements Over the period of the lease  
Office furniture and equipment 2–10 years 
Motor vehicles 4-5 years 
Estimates of useful lives and residual scrap values are assessed annually. 
At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. 
2.5 Investment properties 
Land and buildings held for long-term investment and to earn rental 
income are classified as investment properties. Investment properties are 
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised 
impairment loss. 
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful 
life of the asset, and is charged from the time an asset becomes available 
for its intended use. Estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Investment properties 60 years 
   74 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
74  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.6 Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the group’s share in the net fair value of the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. 
All transaction costs are expensed in the income statement as incurred. 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability  
is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a 
change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is 
classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated 
to each of the group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. 
2.7 Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition  
at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and 
assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible 
asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation 
method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least 
at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied  
in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting 
estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives  
is recognised in profit or loss in the expense category consistent with the 
function of the intangible asset. 
Trade name and non-contractual commercial relationships 
Amortisation is calculated using estimates of revenues generated by  
each asset over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 5 years. 
Forward order book on acquisition 
Amortisation is calculated based on expected future cash flows estimated 
to be three years. 
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets 
The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group estimates  
the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell 
and its value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the 
asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those 
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired 
and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value-in-use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value  
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used. These 
calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, or other available fair 
value indicators. 
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in profit  
or loss in those expense categories consistent with the function of the 
impaired asset. 
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting 
date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised 
impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.  
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case 
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. 
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. 
The following criteria are also applied in assessing impairment of  
specific assets: 
Goodwill 
The group assesses whether there are any indicators that goodwill is 
impaired at each reporting date. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates. Where 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than their 
carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods. The group 
performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at 31 December. 
   www.clarksons.com 75
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   75 
2.9 Investments and other financial assets 
Classification 
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets 
at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity 
investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. When 
financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, 
plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs. 
The group determines the classification of its financial assets on initial 
recognition, taking into account the purpose for which the financial assets 
were acquired. Where allowed and appropriate, the group re-evaluates 
this designation at each financial year-end. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes financial assets 
held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as 
at fair value through profit or loss. 
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for  
the purpose of selling in the near term. Gains or losses on investments 
held for trading are recognised in profit or loss. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. After initial 
measurement loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are 
derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. 
Available-for-sale financial investments 
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial  
assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in  
any of the two preceding categories or held-to-maturity investments.  
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures 
within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. Available-for-sale 
financial assets are measured at cost, since they are investments in 
unlisted companies where the fair value cannot be determined. 
Recognition and measurement 
Fair value 
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial 
markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the 
close of business on the balance sheet date. For investments where there 
is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques, 
unless these are not reliable in which case the investments are shown at 
cost. Such valuation techniques include using recent arm’s-length market 
transactions; reference to the current market value of another instrument 
which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis; or other 
valuation models. 
Amortised cost 
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost. This is computed 
using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.  
The calculation takes into account any premium or discount on acquisition 
and includes transaction costs and fees that are an integral part of the 
effective interest rate. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less provision for impairment. 
Foreign exchange contracts are accounted for in accordance with  
note 2.13. 
2.10 Impairment of financial assets 
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset 
or group of financial assets is impaired. 
Assets carried at amortised cost 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at 
amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value 
of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that 
have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective 
interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance 
account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases 
and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed 
its amortised cost at the reversal date. Any subsequent reversal of an 
impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made  
when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to  
collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.  
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an 
allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are 
assessed as uncollectable. 
Available-for-sale financial investments 
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the 
difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) 
and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised  
in profit or loss, is transferred from equity to profit or loss. Reversals in 
respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not 
recognised in profit or loss. Reversals of impairment losses on debt 
instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value 
of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss. 
   76 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
76  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.11 Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. It excludes 
borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. 
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits  
with an original maturity of between one day and three months. 
2.13 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce  
exposure to foreign exchange movements. These can include forward 
foreign exchange contracts and currency options. All derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value 
adjusted for transaction costs. 
The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by 
reference to quoted prices in an active market. Where no such active 
market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation 
techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis 
and the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the 
derivative depends on whether the instrument has been designated as a 
hedging instrument and, if so, the cash flow being hedged. To qualify for 
hedge accounting, the terms of the hedge must be clearly documented  
at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be 
highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk. 
Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and if  
at any point it is concluded that the relationship can no longer be  
expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge 
relationship is terminated. 
Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which qualify for 
hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the hedge 
relationship and the item being hedged. 
Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as  
cash flow hedges when they hedge the group’s exposure to changes in 
cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable 
forecast transaction. Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges  
are recognised directly in equity, to the extent that they are determined  
to be effective. Any remaining portion of the gain or loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. On recognition of the hedged  
asset or liability, any gains or losses that had previously been recognised 
directly in equity are included in the initial measurement of the fair value  
of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or 
when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 
cumulative gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the 
income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 
transferred to the income statement. 
Where financial instrument derivatives do not qualify for hedge  
accounting, changes in the fair market value are recognised immediately  
in the income statement. 
2.14 Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have  
been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts 
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year 
or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, 
they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
2.15 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly 
attributable transaction costs and have not been designated as ‘at fair 
value through profit and loss’. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method. 
2.16 Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation  
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount  
of the obligation. Where the group expects some or all of a provision to be 
reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is 
virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in profit 
or loss net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money  
is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that 
reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage  
of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
2.17 Employee benefits 
The group operates various post-employment schemes, including both 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. 
For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions to publicly  
or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid 
contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund 
or a reduction in the future payments is available. 
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that  
an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
   www.clarksons.com 77
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   77 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit 
pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the 
end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using  
the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows 
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to 
maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in  
other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income. 
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to  
the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of  
plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the 
income statement. 
2.18 Share-based payment transactions 
Employees (including senior executives) of the group receive  
remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions,  
whereby employees render services as consideration for equity 
instruments (equity-settled transactions). 
Equity-settled transactions 
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by 
reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. The fair 
value of the element of these awards which have a Total Shareholder 
Return performance condition was valued using a stochastic model.  
All other elements of awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with  
a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the 
performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date  
on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award  
(the vesting date). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and the group’s best estimate of 
the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The profit or loss 
charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest,  
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market 
condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service 
conditions are satisfied. 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional  
share dilution in the computation of earnings per share (further details  
are given in note 8). 
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant  
of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself,  
and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction. 
2.19 Share capital 
Ordinary shares are recognised in equity as share capital at their nominal 
value. The difference between consideration received and the nominal 
value is recognised in the share premium account, except when applying 
the merger relief provision of the Companies Act 2006. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares 
are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Company shares held in trust in connection with the group’s employee 
share schemes are deducted from consolidated shareholders’ equity. 
Purchases, sales and transfers of the company’s shares are disclosed  
as changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity. The assets and  
liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in full into the group’s consolidated 
financial statements. 
2.20 Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Broking 
Revenue consists of commission receivable from broking and is 
recognised by reference to the stage of completion. Stage of completion  
is measured by reference to the underlying commercial contract.  
Futures broking commissions are recognised when the services have 
been performed. 
Financial 
Fees relating to our investment banking and other financial businesses  
are recognised as services are performed. 
Support 
Port service income is recognised on vessel load or discharge completion 
date and store rent on a time basis. Agency income is recognised when 
vessels arrive in port. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when 
the goods are physically despatched to the customer. Rental income 
arising from operating leases on properties is accounted for on a straight-
line basis over the lease term. 
Research 
Revenue comprises fees, which are recognised as and when services are 
performed, and sales of shipping publications and other information, which 
is recognised when products are delivered. Subscriptions to periodicals 
and other information are recognised over the subscription period. 
Finance income 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
2.21 Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The group 
considers the executive members of the company’s board to be the chief 
operating decision-maker. 
   78 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
78  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.22 Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at  
the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. At each 
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated  
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance 
sheet date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the 
income statement. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date  
of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date 
when the fair value was determined. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the group’s overseas 
operations are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at 
the average exchange rates for the period as an approximation of rates 
prevailing at the date of the transaction unless exchange rates fluctuate 
significantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the 
group’s currency translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or expense in the period in which an operation is 
disposed of. Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero at 
the date of transition to IFRSs. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and 
translated at the closing rate. 
2.23 Taxation 
Current income tax 
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods 
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to  
the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the 
amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. 
Current income tax relating to items is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income. 
Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets  
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except: 
– where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and 
– in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses,  
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of 
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: 
– where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
– in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, deferred income tax assets are recognised 
only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income 
tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised 
to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will 
allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and not in profit or loss. 
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if  
a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same 
taxable entity and the same taxation authority, where there is an intention 
to settle the balances on a net basis. 
2.24 Leases 
Where the group is a lessee, operating lease payments are recognised  
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term. Lease incentive payments are amortised over the lease term. 
2.25 Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are significant items of a non-recurring nature  
and considered material in both size and nature. These are  
disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the group’s  
financial performance. 
   www.clarksons.com 79
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   79 
3 Revenue and expenses  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 
Rendering of services   288.0 213.6
Rental income 2.2 3.7
Sale of goods 11.6 20.6
 301.8 237.9
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance revenue 
Bank interest income 0.8 0.5
Income from available-for-sale financial assets 1.7 0.2
 2.5 0.7
Income from available-for-sale financial assets includes dividends from The Baltic Exchange. The increase in 2015 arose as a result of an additional 
interim dividend. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance costs 
Loan note interest 1.1 –
Loan interest 0.4 –
Overdraft interest 0.2 –
Other finance costs 0.5 –
 2.2 –
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other finance costs – pensions 
Net benefit charge 0.4 0.2
 0.4 0.2
Operating profit 
Operating profit from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting): 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Depreciation 4.2 3.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 9.2 0.1
Impairment of intangible assets – 0.2
Operating lease expense – land and buildings 13.9 6.6
Operating sublease income – land and buildings (2.2) (3.7)
Net foreign exchange gains (1.9) (4.4)
 
   80 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
80  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
3 Revenue and expenses continued 
 
2015 
£000 
2014
£000
Auditors’ remuneration  
Fees payable to the company’s auditors for the audit of the company’s and group financial statements 232 98
Fees payable to the company’s auditors and their associates for other services:  
The auditing of financial statements of subsidiaries of the company 322 200
Audit-related assurance services 50 40
Taxation compliance services 18 47
Taxation advisory services 102 175
All other services – 871
 724 1,431
In 2014, the level of non-audit fees exceeded audit fees which was mainly due to professional services provided by the auditor’s firm in respect of the 
Platou acquisition. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Employee compensation and benefits expense  
Wages and salaries 165.8 130.3
Social security costs 15.5 13.2
Expense of share-based payments 1.6 1.4
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 3.2 3.0
 186.1 147.9
The numbers above include remuneration and pension entitlements for each director. Details are included in the directors’ remuneration report in the 
directors’ emoluments and compensation table on page 51. 
The average monthly number of persons employed by the group during the year including executive directors is analysed below: 
 2015 2014
Broking 1,012 810
Financial 121 37
Support 163 149
Research 89 83
 1,385 1,079
 
   www.clarksons.com 81
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   81 
4 Segmental information 
The group considers the executive members of the company’s board to be the chief operating decision-maker. Management has determined the 
operating segments based on the information reviewed by the board. 
Clarksons’ broking division represents services provided to shipowners and charterers in the transportation by sea of a wide range of cargoes. It also 
represents services provided to buyers and sellers/yards relating to sale and purchase transactions.  Also included is a futures broking operation which 
arranges principal-to-principal cash-settled contracts for differences based upon standardised freight contracts. This division is now reported under the 
broking segment, having previously been included under financial. The comparatives have been restated to reflect this. 
The financial division represents full-service investment banking, specialising in the maritime, oil services and natural resources sectors. Clarksons also 
provides debt and leasing solutions and structured projects in the shipping, offshore and real estate sectors. 
Support includes port and agency services representing ship agency services provided throughout the UK and property services regarding the provision 
of accommodation. 
Research services encompass the provision of shipping-related information and publications. 
All areas of the business work closely together to provide the best possible service to our clients. Occasionally revenue is shared between different 
segments to reflect relative contributions to a particular transaction. Internal arm’s-length recharges are included within the appropriate segments. 
Business segments 
Revenue Results
 
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Broking 239.5 190.2 49.1 34.6
Financial 28.7 8.7 1.2 (1.9)
Support 26.2 31.9 3.3 4.0
Research 11.1 10.4 3.4 3.5
 305.5 241.2 
Less: property services revenue arising within the group,  
included under support (3.7) (3.3) 
Segment revenue/results 301.8 237.9 57.0 40.2
Head office costs  (7.5) (6.9)
Operating profit before exceptional items and acquisition costs  49.5 33.3
Exceptional items  (2.5) (1.6)
Acquisition costs  (15.1) (7.0)
Operating profit after exceptional items and acquisition costs  31.9 24.7
Finance revenue  2.5 0.7
Finance costs  (2.2) –
Other finance costs – pensions  (0.4) (0.2)
Profit before taxation  31.8 25.2
Taxation  (9.5) (8.0)
Profit for the year  22.3 17.2
   82 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
82  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
4 Segmental information continued 
Business segments 
 Assets  Liabilities
 
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Broking 348.1 162.7 102.2 72.5
Financial 130.8 15.3 22.2 4.6
Support 38.8 27.0 6.3 9.4
Research 9.6 8.8 4.6 3.5
Segment assets/liabilities 527.3 213.8 135.3 90.0
Unallocated assets/liabilities 21.4 75.7 72.5 32.2
 548.7 289.5 207.8 122.2
Unallocated assets predominantly relate to head office cash balances and tax assets. Unallocated liabilities include the pension scheme deficit, tax 
liabilities and loan notes. 
Business segments 
 Non-current asset additions Depreciation Amortisation and impairment
 
Property,  
plant and 
equipment  
2015 
£m 
Intangible  
assets  
2015 
£m 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
2014
£m
Intangible 
assets 
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Broking 4.8 148.6 0.3 – 1.6 0.6 8.8 0.1
Financial 0.2 105.9 0.1 – 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.2
Support 19.4 – 1.4 0.4 2.3 2.3 – –
 24.4 254.5 1.8 0.4 4.2 3.0 9.2 0.3
Geographical segments – by origin of invoice 
 Revenue
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Europe, Middle East and Africa
*
 231.1 176.3
Americas 29.5 26.5
Asia Pacific 41.2 35.1
 301.8 237.9
Geographical segments – by location of assets 
 Non-current assets
**
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Europe, Middle East and Africa
*
 277.0 47.2
Americas 2.8 2.4
Asia Pacific 18.4 1.1
 298.2 50.7
* Includes revenue for the UK of £154.0m (2014: £146.7m) and non-current assets for the UK of £83.2m (2014: £44.6m). 
** Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets. 
   www.clarksons.com 83
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   83 
5 Exceptional items 
2015 
During 2014, Clarkson PLC signed a 15 year lease on a new flagship head office at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London, commencing on  
29 September 2014. The lease for the previous head office, St. Magnus House, London expired in December 2015. The additional rent and associated 
costs in the year were £1.9m for Commodity Quay up to the relocation date, and £0.4m for St. Magnus House after relocation. An onerous lease 
provision of £0.3m for a property in Singapore was also treated as an exceptional item. Costs associated with the reorganisation of the enlarged group 
post-acquisition totalling £1.2m were treated as exceptional, as they are non-recurring. The release of the unutilised portion of the dilapidation provision 
for St. Magnus House of £1.3m has been treated as exceptional other income. 
2014 
An onerous lease provision of £0.7m for St. Magnus House and the additional rent charge for Commodity Quay of £0.9m were treated as  
exceptional items. 
6 Acquisition costs 
Included in acquisition costs are cash and share-based payment charges of £2.1m (2014: £2.8m) relating to previous acquisitions. These are contingent 
on employees remaining in service and are therefore spread over the service period. Also included is £0.7m (2014: £nil) relating to the acquisition of the 
remaining non-controlling interest in Clarksons Platou Tankers AS. The charge consists of cash and share-based payment charges which are linked to 
future service of the employees and are therefore spread over a four year period. 
Also included is £3.1m (2014: £4.1m) of legal and professional fees relating to the Platou and other acquisitions and £9.2m (2014: £0.1m) relating to 
amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of the Platou and other prior acquisitions. Interest on the loan notes issued as part of the Platou acquisition 
totalled £1.1m (2014: £nil). 
7 Taxation 
Tax charged/(credited) in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 
 2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax 
Tax on profits for the year  9.1 8.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 1.0
 9.6 9.4
 
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  0.1 (1.3)
Impact of change in tax rates (0.2) (0.1)
 (0.1) (1.4)
Total tax charge in the income statement 9.5 8.0
Tax relating to items charged/(credited) to equity is as follows: 
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax  
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability (0.4) (0.4)
 – other employee benefits (0.7) (1.1)
Other items in equity  0.1 –
  (1.0) (1.5)
  
Deferred tax  
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 2.3 (1.7)
 – other employee benefits – 1.0
Foreign currency hedge (0.3) (0.8)
  2.0 (1.5)
Total tax charge/(credit) in the statement of changes in equity 1.0 (3.0)
   84 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
84  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
7 Taxation continued 
Reconciliation of tax charge 
The tax charge in the income statement for the year is higher (2014: higher) than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25%  
(2014: 21.49%). The differences are reconciled below: 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit before taxation 31.8 25.2
Profit at UK average standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.49%) 6.4 5.4
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.8 2.5
Non-taxable income (0.3) –
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (0.1) (0.9)
Tax losses recognised – 0.4
Adjustments relating to prior year 0.5 0.6
Adjustments relating to changes in tax rates 0.4 (0.1)
Other adjustments (0.2) 0.1
Total tax charge in the income statement 9.5 8.0
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK decreased from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the UK’s profits for this 
accounting year are taxed at an effective rate of 20.25%. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax charged/(credited) in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 0.9 –
 – other employee benefits 0.1 (1.3)
Tax losses recognised 0.5 0.4
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition (2.4) –
Other temporary differences 0.8 (0.5)
Deferred tax credit in the income statement (0.1) (1.4)
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Deferred tax asset   
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 0.7 2.1
 – other employee benefits 10.6 10.4
Foreign currency contracts 0.3 –
Tax losses  – 0.5
Other temporary differences 0.9 2.0
  12.5 15.0
  
Deferred tax liability  
In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries (1.1) (1.1)
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition (2.6) (0.1)
Other temporary differences (0.4) (0.8)
  (4.1) (2.0)
Included in the above are deferred tax assets of £4.3m (2014: £4.8m) and deferred tax liabilities of £1.3m (2014: £nil) which are due within one year. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. 
All deferred tax movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences. The group did not recognise a deferred tax asset of £1.4m 
(2014: £0.8m) in respect of unused tax losses, which have no expiry date.  www.clarksons.com 85
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   85 
8 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion 
of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 
 2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent  19.7 17.2
 
 2015 2014
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding share purchase trusts’ shares) for basic earnings per share 28,952,917 18,685,243
Dilutive effect of share options 30,763 89,349
Dilutive effect of performance share awards 299,599 250,018
Dilutive effect of acquisition-related shares 870 137,499
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding share purchase trusts’ shares)  
adjusted for the effect of dilution 29,284,149 19,162,109
The share awards relating to directors, where the performance conditions have not yet been met at the balance sheet date, are not included in the above 
numbers. The weighted average number of these shares was 99,533 (2014: 120,895). 
9 Dividends 
 2015
£m
2014
£m
Declared and paid during the year: 
Final dividend for 2014 of 39p per share (2013: 37p per share)  11.7 6.9
Interim dividend for 2015 of 22p per share (2014: 21p per share) 6.5 3.9
Dividend paid 18.2 10.8
 
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 December):  
Final dividend for 2015 proposed of 40p per share (2014: 39p per share) 12.1 11.7
 
   86 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
86  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
10 Property, plant and equipment 
31 December 2015 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office furniture 
and equipment 
£m 
Motor  
vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2015 4.8 1.9 19.8 1.1 27.6
Additions 2.6 14.9 6.7 0.2 24.4
Arising on acquisitions 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4
Disposals (0.1) (0.7) (13.4) (0.3) (14.5)
Foreign exchange differences – 0.1 (0.1) – –
At 31 December 2015 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2015 (1.2) (1.3) (16.9) (0.5) (19.9)
Charged during the year – (1.1) (2.8) (0.3) (4.2)
Disposals – 0.7 13.4 0.3 14.4
Foreign exchange differences 0.1 (0.2) (0.3) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2015 (1.1) (1.9) (6.6) (0.5) (10.1)
Net book value at 31 December 2015 6.5 15.2 8.5 0.6 30.8
Included within additions are amounts relating to the office moves in London, Oslo and Singapore. 
31 December 2014 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office furniture 
and equipment 
£m 
Motor  
vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2014 4.7 1.8 17.9 1.2 25.6
Additions 0.1 0.1 1.5 0.1 1.8
Arising on acquisitions – – 0.5 0.1 0.6
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
At 31 December 2014 4.8 1.9 19.8 1.1 27.6
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2014 1.1 1.1 14.4 0.5 17.1
Charged during the year 0.1 0.2 2.4 0.2 2.9
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Foreign exchange differences – – 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2014 1.2 1.3 16.9 0.5 19.9
Net book value at 31 December 2014 3.6 0.6 2.9 0.6 7.7
 
  www.clarksons.com 87
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   87 
11 Investment property 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 0.6 0.6
Arising on acquisitions 0.9 –
At 31 December 1.5 0.6
 
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 0.3 0.2
Charged during the year – 0.1
At 31 December 0.3 0.3
Net book value at 31 December 1.2 0.3
The fair value of the investment properties at 31 December 2015 was £1.4m (2014: £0.7m).  This was based on valuations from independent valuers 
who have the appropriate professional qualifications and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued. 
12 Intangible assets 
31 December 2015 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2015 52.7 7.8 60.5
Additions 232.6 21.9 254.5
Foreign exchange differences (21.3) (1.4) (22.7)
At 31 December 2015 264.0 28.3 292.3
  
Accumulated amortisation and impairment  
At 1 January 2015 12.3 7.8 20.1
Charged during the year – 9.2 9.2
Foreign exchange differences – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2015 12.3 16.8 29.1
Net book value at 31 December 2015 251.7 11.5 263.2
None of the intangible assets are internally-generated. 
Included within other intangible assets are £11.5m relating to customer relationships, forward order book and trade name which were identified as part of 
the Platou acquisition. These have a remaining amortisation period of between two and four years.   88 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
88  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
12 Intangible assets continued 
31 December 2014 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other intangible 
assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2014 52.2 7.8 60.0
Additions 0.4 – 0.4
Foreign exchange differences 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2014 52.7 7.8 60.5
   
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2014 12.1 7.7 19.8
Charged during the year – 0.1 0.1
Impairment 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2014 12.3 7.8 20.1
Net book value at 31 December 2014 40.4 – 40.4
None of the intangible assets are internally-generated. 
Acquisitions 
2015 
On 2 February 2015, Clarkson PLC acquired 100% of the share capital of RS Platou ASA (Platou), which subsequently changed its name to Clarksons 
Platou AS. 
Platou is a leading international broker and investment bank providing high value brokerage, financial and advisory services focused on the offshore and 
shipping markets, operating from offices in 11 countries located in key global financial and shipping centres. The Platou group’s business comprises four 
core divisions: offshore and shipbroking (included within the broking segment) and investment banking and project finance (included within the financial 
segment), which are complemented by a variety of research capabilities. 
The acquisition complements the group’s strategy to expand its geographical reach and broaden its offshore and project finance services to existing and 
new customers. The goodwill of £232.6m represents the acquired workforce, as well as the potential new customer relationships and revenue expected 
to be brought in by experienced brokers and senior management team members. It also represents the potential to achieve improved commercial 
competitiveness and operational efficiency in the long-term. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.  
The fair value of the consideration was £249.9m, of which £23.5m was paid in cash, £179.9m being the fair value of ordinary shares issued (based on 
the Clarkson PLC share price on the acquisition date) and £46.5m comprised loan notes. 
Under IFRS, the share price as at the acquisition date is applied to record the relevant proportion of the investment in Platou. The provisions of merger 
relief under the Companies Act 2006 are applicable in relation to the shares issued as consideration such that no share premium is recorded, instead an 
equivalent merger reserve is recorded, as required under IFRS and permitted by the Companies Act 2006. 
The total consideration of £249.9m varies from the £281.2m stated in the circular dated 27 November 2014. The proposed fixed number of shares  
to be issued was initially determined based on a share price of £22.15. On acquisition, the shares were issued at the closing market price of £18.90. 
   www.clarksons.com 89
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   89 
The following table summarises the consideration paid, the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed relating to the acquisition of Platou: 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: £m
Intangible assets *21.9
Property, plant and equipment 3.4
Investment property 0.9
Deferred tax 1.8
Investments 7.4
Trade and other receivables 46.2
Cash and cash equivalents 54.0
Total assets 135.6
 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – bank overdraft (10.8)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – bank loan (12.0)
Trade and other payables (67.7)
Income tax payable (7.4)
Employee benefits (4.7)
Deferred tax liability *(4.9)
Total liabilities (107.5)
 
Total identifiable net assets 28.1
Non-controlling interests’ share of identifiable assets and liabilities (10.8)
Goodwill 232.6
Total consideration 249.9
* Fair value adjustment made on acquisition. 
Intangible assets comprise customer relationships, forward order book and trade name identified on acquisition. The valuation of these was performed  
by third party valuers. 
The identified net assets and goodwill have been allocated to the appropriate foreign currencies of the Platou operation. 
Net cash acquired was £43.2m, being the cash and cash equivalents of £54.0m and overdraft of £10.8m, included in interest-bearing loans  
and borrowings. 
The revenue included in the consolidated income statement since 2 February 2015 contributed by Platou was £65.8m. Platou contributed profit of 
£12.8m over the same period. 
Had Platou been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement would show revenue of £308.2m and profit before taxation, 
exceptional items and acquisition costs of £51.5m. This information is not necessarily indicative of the 2015 results of the combined group had the 
purchase actually been made at the beginning of the year presented, or indicative of the future consolidated performance given the nature of the 
business acquired. 
   90 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
90  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
12 Intangible assets continued 
2014 
In 2014, the group acquired 100% of the share capital of Belfast-based port agent Michael F. Ewings (Shipping) Limited (Ewings), via its port and agency 
business, Clarkson Port Services Limited (CPS). 
The acquisition extends the geographic coverage of CPS for vessel agency, broking and supply logistics into Northern Ireland and enables CPS to 
broaden its services to existing and new customers. 
The goodwill of £0.4m is attributable to the acquired team and the synergies that will arise as part of the acquisition. None of the goodwill recognised is 
expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. 
Consideration is payable in cash totalling £1.4m. On the acquisition date £1.1m was paid, the remaining £0.3m was paid by January 2015. 
In addition, a further £0.6m will be payable in cash to key employees contingent on them remaining in employment for three years. An additional sum up 
to £0.5m will also be payable in three years subject to the same service conditions and Ewings achieving certain earnings targets over the three years. 
For both of the above, the cost will be charged to the consolidated income statement over the service period. 
Acquisition costs of £0.1m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid, the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed relating to the acquisition  
of Ewings: 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: £m
Property, plant and equipment
*
 0.6
Trade and other receivables 3.1
Cash and cash equivalents 0.5
Total assets 4.2
 
Trade and other payables (3.0)
Income tax payable (0.2)
Total liabilities (3.2)
 
Total identifiable net assets 1.0
Goodwill 0.4
Total consideration payable in cash 1.4
* £0.3m fair value adjustment made on acquisition. 
The revenue included in the consolidated income statement since 12 June 2014 contributed by Ewings was £0.7m. Ewings contributed profit of £0.1m 
over the same period. 
Had Ewings been consolidated from 1 January 2014, the consolidated income statement would show revenue of £238.7m and profit before taxation, 
the exceptional item and acquisition costs of £34.1m. This information is not necessarily indicative of the 2014 results of the combined group had the 
purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or indicative of the future consolidated performance given the nature of the 
business acquired.   www.clarksons.com 91
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   91 
13 Impairment testing of goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to operating segment. 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to the attributable CGUs for impairment testing as follows: 
– Dry cargo chartering 
– Container chartering 
– Specialised chartering 
– Gas chartering 
– Tankers chartering 
– Sale and purchase broking 
– Offshore broking 
– Securities 
– Port and agency services 
– Research services 
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each CGU is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Dry cargo chartering 12.0 12.0
Container chartering 1.8 1.8
Specialised chartering 12.2 12.2
Gas chartering 2.7 2.7
Tankers chartering 9.6 –
Sale and purchase broking 42.0 3.6
Offshore broking 71.4 1.8
Securities 93.8 –
Port and agency services 2.9 3.0
Research services 3.3 3.3
 251.7 40.4
During the year, £1.8m of goodwill was reallocated from sale and purchase broking to offshore broking. 
The movement in the aggregate carrying value is analysed in more detail in note 12. 
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs which are tested for impairment at least annually. The goodwill arising in each CGU is similar in nature and thus the  
testing for impairment uses the same approach. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are assessed using a value-in-use model. Value-in-use is calculated as the net present value of the projected  
risk-adjusted cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated. The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed 
significant are sale and purchase broking, offshore broking and securities. The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are as follows: 
– the pre-tax discount rate used is based on the group’s weighted average cost of capital and adjusted for risks within each CGU. As all broking and 
chartering CGUs have operations that are global in nature and similar risk profiles, the same pre-tax discount rate was applied to each unit. The 
broking and chartering pre-tax discount rate is 12% (2014: 12%); port and agency and research services also use a pre-tax discount rate of 12% 
(2014: 12%); the securities pre-tax discount rate is 11%; 
– the cash flow predictions are based on financial budgets and strategic plans approved by the board extrapolated over a three year period.  
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development; 
– key drivers in the plans are revenue growth, margin and operating profit percentage and include conservative annual growth rates of 1.7%  
(2014: between 0% and 5%) with effect from 2017; and 
– cash flows beyond this three year period are calculated in perpetuity using the above mentioned rate of 1.7%. A change in this rate to 0% would  
not result in impairment. 
The results of the directors’ review of goodwill including sensitivity analyses for reasonable changes in assumptions still indicate remaining headroom. 
Accordingly, no reasonably possible change is foreseen which gives rise to an impairment of goodwill.  
In light of global macro-economic and geo-political uncertainty, the board keeps the carrying value of goodwill under constant review.  In the event that 
any of the markets in which we operate has a sustained downturn, an impairment of the relevant CGU’s goodwill may be required. 
   92 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
92  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
14 Trade and other receivables 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Non-current  
Other receivables 1.1 0.4
  
Current  
Trade receivables 49.8 32.6
Other receivables 6.1 4.6
Prepayments and accrued income 5.4 5.5
 61.3 42.7
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms payable within 90 days. 
As at 31 December 2015, group trade receivables at nominal value of £12.3m (2014: £9.9m) were impaired and fully provided for. The amount of the 
provision equates to the total amount of impaired debt. The provision is based on experience and ongoing market information about the credit-
worthiness of counterparties.  
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 9.9 9.7
Arising on acquisition 2.1 –
Provision release (4.3) (3.5)
Written off (2.4) (0.9)
New provision 6.4 4.0
Foreign exchange differences 0.6 0.6
At 31 December 12.3 9.9
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include any impaired items. 
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Neither past due nor impaired 43.9 29.7
Past due not impaired > 90 days 5.9 2.9
 49.8 32.6
The carrying amounts of the group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
US dollar 32.4 24.4
Sterling 10.0 7.1
Norwegian Krone 6.6 0.5
Other currencies 0.8 0.6
 49.8 32.6
 
   www.clarksons.com 93
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   93 
15 Investments 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current 
Available-for-sale financial assets 1.9 1.9
 
Current 
Funds on deposit 5.4 25.3
Available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 –
Held for trading investments 0.1 –
 5.7 25.3
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in unlisted ordinary shares and are shown at cost. There are no reasonable pricing alternatives  
to be able to give a range of fair value to these assets. 
The group held £5.4m (2014: £25.3m) in deposits with a maturity of 95 days at the year-end. These deposits are held with an A-rated financial institution. 
During the year, treasury bills acquired as part of the Platou acquisition matured.  The proceeds of the maturity are shown in the cash flow statement 
under proceeds from sale of investments. 
16 Inventories 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finished goods 0.9 1.4
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £7.0m (2014: £9.8m). 
17 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 161.3 150.8
Short-term deposits 7.1 2.1
 168.4 152.9
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods between 
one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. 
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £168.4m (2014: £152.9m). 
Included in cash at bank and in hand is £1.8m (2014: £nil) of restricted funds relating to employee tax. 
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 
Loan notes 23.1 –
 
Non-current 
Loan notes 23.0 –
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise the vendor loan notes issued as part of the consideration for the Platou acquisition. Interest is charged  
at 12 month LIBOR plus a margin of 1.25%. The loan notes are repayable in two instalments, on 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017.  94 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
94  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
19 Trade and other payables 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Current  
Trade payables 24.8 12.4
Other payables 8.4 1.4
Other tax and social security 2.8 2.6
Deferred consideration 0.3 2.1
Foreign currency contracts 1.2 –
Accruals and deferred income 101.8 83.7
 139.3 102.2
  
Non-current  
Other payables 7.4 1.7
Deferred consideration 0.5 0.1
Foreign currency contracts 0.2 –
 8.1 1.8
Terms and conditions of the financial liabilities: 
– trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand; and 
– other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand. 
20 Provisions 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Current  
At 1 January 3.0 –
Transferred from non-current – 2.0
Arising during the year 0.2 1.0
Utilised during the year (1.7) –
Released during the year (1.3) –
At 31 December 0.2 3.0
  
Non-current  
At 1 January – 2.0
Transferred to current – (2.0)
At 31 December – –
As at 31 December 2014, provisions were recognised for the dilapidation of various leasehold premises and the onerous lease on St. Magnus House.  
During 2015 the St. Magnus House dilapidation provision and onerous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement. This release 
has been treated as an exceptional item as set out in note 5. 
21 Share-based payment plans 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1.6 1.4
The share-based payment plans are described below. There have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2015 or 2014. 
   www.clarksons.com 95
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   95 
Share options 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Details of the LTIP are included in the directors’ remuneration report on page 46. Awards made to the directors are given in the directors’ remuneration 
report on page 53. The fair value of the element of these awards, which have a TSR performance condition, was valued using a Stochastic model.  
All other elements of the awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
ShareSave scheme 
The ShareSave scheme is approved by HMRC and enables eligible employees to acquire options over ordinary shares of the company at a discount. 
The fair value of these awards was valued using the Black-Scholes model. 
Other options 
These options were granted in 2007 to senior executives where the performance conditions have since been met. The fair value of the element of these 
awards, which have a TSR performance condition, was valued using a Stochastic model. All other elements of the awards were valued using a Black-
Scholes model. 
Movements in the year 
The following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share options during the year: 
 
Outstanding at 
1 January  
2015 
Granted 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Outstanding at 
31 December 
2015 
Exercisable at 
31 December 
2015
Weighted 
average 
contractual life 
Years
LTIP
1 
367,900 53,451 (22,444) – 398,907 247,005 6.28
2012 ShareSave
2 
119,745 – (1,427)(118,318) – – –
2013 ShareSave
3 
17,626 – (1,491) – 16,135 – 1.00
2014 ShareSave
4 
78,215 – (41,347) (153) 36,715 – 2.00
2015 ShareSave
5 
– 138,229 (5,632) – 132,597 – 3.00
Other options
6 
40,000 – – – 40,000 40,000 1.82
 623,486 191,680 (72,341) (118,471) 624,354 287,005
 
 
Outstanding at  
1 January  
2014 
Granted 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Outstanding at 
31 December 
2014 
Exercisable at 
31 December 
2014
Weighted 
average 
contractual life 
Years
LTIP
1 
411,581 46,082 (27,953) (61,810) 367,900 184,868 6.91
2012 ShareSave
2 
132,955 – (13,210) – 119,745 – 1.00
2013 ShareSave
3 
18,964 – (1,338) – 17,626 – 2.00
2014 ShareSave
4 
– 81,792 (3,577) – 78,215 – 3.00
Other options
6 
40,000 – – – 40,000 40,000 2.82
 603,500 127,874 (46,078) (61,810) 623,486 224,868
The exercise price is the same for each share option award, as follows: 1 £nil, 2 £10.82, 3 £13.03, 4 £21.11, 5 £18.12, 6 £9.91. 
Other employee incentives 
During the year, 439,648 shares (2014: 243,784 shares) at a weighted average price of £22.45 (2014: £25.04) were awarded to employees in settlement 
of 2014 (2013) cash bonuses. There was no expense in 2015 as a result of these awards. 
The fair value of the above shares was determined based on the market price at the date of grant. 
As part of a 2011 acquisition, US$2.7m (£1.7m) was payable to key employees in the form of ordinary shares in Clarkson PLC. This was contingent  
on the employees remaining in employment for four years. The cost of these shares has been charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
service period, which ended during the year. The 2015 charge in relation to these awards is £0.4m (2014: £0.4m). 
On 1 September 2015, Clarksons Platou AS acquired the remaining non-controlling interest in Clarksons Platou Tankers AS. The share element of the 
consideration is contingent on the employees remaining in employment for four years. The cost of these shares is being charged to the consolidated 
income statement over the service period. The 2015 charge in relation to these amounts is £0.1m.  96 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
96  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
22 Employee benefits 
The group’s three defined benefit pension schemes are in the UK and all financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the three 
separate schemes. 
The group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, being the Clarkson PLC scheme, the Plowrights scheme and the Stewarts scheme, which 
are funded by the payment of contributions to separate trusts administered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes’ 
beneficiaries. The schemes’ assets are invested in a range of pooled pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers. 
Defined benefit pension arrangements give rise to open ended commitments and liabilities for the sponsoring company. As a consequence, the 
company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarkson PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004. This section was closed to further 
accrual for all existing members as from 31 March 2006. The Plowrights scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006. The Stewarts 
scheme was closed to further accrual on 1 January 2004. 
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates of contribution. 
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared. 
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme showed a pension deficit on the original scheme of £6.1m as at 31 March 2013.  Clarkson PLC and the 
Trustees agreed to continue the five year funding plan, which ended on 31 March 2015, at the rate of £1.0m per annum; they have further agreed to 
continue to fund at this level to 31 December 2016. 
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of £2.9m as at 31 March 2013.  Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to continue  
the funding plan, which ends on 28 February 2017 at the rate of £0.9m per annum. 
The valuation of the Stewarts scheme showed a pension deficit of £2.4m as at 1 September 2012.  Clarksons Platou (Offshore) Limited and the  
Trustees to pay contributions to remove the deficit over a period of eight years and nine months from 1 September 2012 at the rate of £0.3m per annum. 
The group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: 
Asset volatility 
The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if scheme assets underperform this yield, this will 
create a deficit. All schemes hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing 
volatility and risk in the short-term. 
Changes in bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes’  
bond holdings. 
Inflation risk 
Some of the group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majority of the schemes’ assets are 
either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. 
Life expectancy 
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase  
in the schemes’ liabilities. 
Other pension arrangements 
Overseas defined contribution arrangements have been determined in accordance with local practice and regulations. 
The group also operates various other defined contribution pension arrangements. Where required, the group also makes contributions into  
these schemes. 
The group incurs no material expenses in the provision of post-retirement benefits other than pensions. 
 
   www.clarksons.com 97
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   97 
The following tables summarise amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the components of net benefit charge recognised in the 
consolidated income statement: 
Recognised in the balance sheet 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 170.1 163.0
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (172.8) (173.3)
 (2.7) (10.3)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (1.4) –
Benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet (4.1) (10.3)
A deferred tax asset on the above recognised liability amounting to £0.7m (2014: £2.1m) is shown in note 7. 
Recognised in the income statement 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Expected return on schemes’ assets – recognised in other finance costs - pensions 5.8 6.9
Interest cost on benefit obligation and minimum funding requirement – recognised in other finance costs - pensions (6.2) (7.0)
Service cost – recognised in administrative expenses (2014: other finance costs – pensions) (0.2) (0.1)
Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement (0.6) (0.2)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Actual return on schemes’ assets 3.3 17.1
Less: expected return on schemes’ assets (5.8) (6.9)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on schemes’ assets (2.5) 10.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit obligations 13.0 (21.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 10.5 (11.2)
Tax (charge)/credit on actuarial gain/(loss) (2.2) 2.3
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (1.4) 0.9
Tax credit/(charge) on minimum funding requirement 0.3 (0.2)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) on employee benefit obligations 7.2 (8.2)
 
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (16.0) (26.5)
Schemes’ assets 
 %
2015 
£m %
2014
£m
Equities
*
 48.9 83.2 47.4 77.2
Government bonds
*
 32.1 54.6 34.3 55.9
Corporate bonds
*
 12.7 21.6 13.4 21.9
Property 4.2 7.1 3.7 6.0
Cash and other assets 2.1 3.6 1.2 2.0
 100.0 170.1 100.0 163.0
* Based on quoted market prices.   98 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
98  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
22 Employee benefits continued 
Changes in the fair value of schemes’ assets are as follows: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 163.0 152.7
Acquired on acquisition 9.8 –
Expected return on assets 5.8 6.9
Contributions 2.3 1.9
Service costs (0.2) (0.1)
Insurance income for insured pensioners 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (8.2) (8.7)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (2.5) 10.2
At 31 December 170.1 163.0
The group expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute £2.2m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 
2016 (2015: £1.9m). 
Defined benefit obligations 
Changes in the fair value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 173.3 153.6
Acquired on acquisition 14.5 –
Interest costs 6.2 7.0
Actuarial (gain)/loss (13.0) 21.4
Benefits paid (8.2) (8.7)
At 31 December 172.8 173.3
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 
 
2015 
% 
2014
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.8 – 7.0 2.8 – 7.0
Price inflation (RPI) 3.2 3.2
Price inflation (CPI) 2.2 2.2
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.8 3.4
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are based on the ‘SAPS Light’ 
standard mortality tables published by the actuarial profession. These tables have been adjusted to allow for anticipated future improvements in life 
expectancy. Examples of the assumed future life expectancy are given in the table below: 
  Additional years
  2015 2014
Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65:  
Pensioners retiring in the year – male 24.4 24.4
 – female 25.6 25.6
Pensioners retiring in 20 years’ time  – male 26.2 26.1
 – female 27.5 27.5
 
   www.clarksons.com 99
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   99 
Historical comparative information 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2012*
£m
2011
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 170.1 163.0 152.7 144.0 138.0
Defined benefit obligations (172.8) (173.3) (153.6) (152.1) (141.0)
Unrecognised asset – – – – (1.1)
Minimum funding requirement (1.4) – (0.9) (1.3) (2.5)
Benefit liability (4.1) (10.3) (1.8) (9.4) (6.6)
  
Experience adjustments on schemes’ assets (2.5) 10.2 8.5 3.4 1.9
Experience adjustments on schemes’ liabilities 13.0 (21.4) 1.4 – (0.3)
* Restated for the effects of IAS 19 (revised). 
Sensitivities 
The table below provides information on the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant actuarial assumptions. The 
table shows the impact of changes to each assumption in isolation although, in practice, changes to assumptions may occur at the same time and can 
either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined benefit obligation. These sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as 
used for the main calculations. The weighted average duration of the defined obligation is 16 years. 
Change in  
assumption 
Change in defined 
benefit obligation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities +0.5% -7.5%
 -0.5% +8.3%
Price inflation (RPI) +0.5% +5.7%
 -0.5% -5.4%
An increase of one year in the assumed life expectancy for both males and females would increase the defined benefit obligation by 4.1% (2014: 4.2%). 
23 Share capital 
Ordinary shares of 25p each: 
2015
Number
2014 
Number 
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January  20,598,389 18,984,691 5.2 4.7
Additions 9,633,378 1,613,698 2.4 0.5
At 31 December 30,231,767 20,598,389 7.6 5.2
On 2 February 2015, the company issued 9,518,369 shares at a nominal value of £2.4m as part of the acquisition of Platou, refer to note 12. 
Throughout 2015, the company issued 115,009 shares at a total value of £1.2m relating to the 2012 ShareSave scheme. The difference between the 
exercise price of £10.82 and the nominal value of £0.25 has been taken to the share premium account, see note 24. 
On 27 November 2014, the company placed 1,613,698 ordinary shares in the capital of the company, raising gross proceeds of £31.5m. The proceeds 
of £30.6m, net of £0.9m transaction costs, are shown in the statement of changes in equity. 
Shares held by employee trusts 
The trustees have waived their right to dividends on the shares held in the employee share trust. 
   100 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
100  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
24 Other reserves 
31 December 2015 
 
Share 
premium
£m
ESOP  
reserve 
£m 
Employee 
benefits 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 27.8 (5.4) 4.6 2.0 – 6.5 – 35.5
Total comprehensive loss – – – – (1.1) (19.5) – (20.6)
Employee share schemes:    
Share-based payments 
expense – – 1.6 – – – – 1.6
Transfer to profit and loss 
on vesting – 0.7 (2.1) – – – – (1.4)
  Net ESOP shares utilised – 0.4 – – – – – 0.4
Total employee share 
schemes – 1.1 (0.5) – – – – 0.6
Share issues 1.2 – – – – – 177.5 178.7
At 31 December 2015 29.0 (4.3) 4.1 2.0 (1.1) (13.0) 177.5 194.2
31 December 2014 
 
Share 
premium
£m
ESOP  
reserve 
£m 
Employee 
benefits 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 27.8 (6.1) 3.6 2.0 3.4 5.0 – 35.7
Total comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – – (3.4) 1.5 – (1.9)
Net ESOP shares utilised – 0.7 – – – – – 0.7
Share-based payments – – 1.0 – – – – 1.0
Share issues – – – – – – 30.1 30.1
Transfer – – – – – – (30.1) (30.1)
At 31 December 2014 27.8 (5.4) 4.6 2.0 – 6.5 – 35.5
Nature and purpose of other reserves 
ESOP reserve 
The ESOP reserve in the group represents 280,106 shares (2014: 411,920 shares) held by the share purchase trusts to meet obligations under various 
incentive schemes. The shares are stated at cost. The market value of these shares at 31 December 2015 was £6.3m (2014: £7.8m). At 31 December 
2015 none of these shares were under option (2014: none). During the year the share purchase trusts acquired 481,514 shares at a weighted average 
price of £22.93 (2014: 215,082 shares at £26.10). 
Employee benefits reserve 
The employee benefits reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees. Further details are included  
in note 21. 
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve arose on previous share buy-backs by Clarkson PLC. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not  
yet occurred. 
Currency translation reserve  
The currency translation reserve represents the currency translation differences arising from the consolidation of foreign operations. 
Merger reserve 
This comprises the premium on the share placing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou acquisition.  
No share premium is recorded in the financial statements, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
   www.clarksons.com 101
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   101 
25 Financial commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The group has entered into commercial leases in relation to land and buildings and other assets on the basis that it is not in the group’s best interests  
to purchase these assets. The leases have a life of between one and 15 years with renewal terms included in the contracts. Renewals are at the option  
of the specific entity that holds the lease. There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 
6.9
6.6
After one year but not more than five years 
36.0
11.0
After five years 
55.1
34.9
 
98.0
52.5
The group has sublet space in certain properties. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease 
agreements as at 31 December 2015 is £1.2m (2014: £3.5m). 
Contingencies 
The group has given no financial commitments to suppliers (2014: none). 
The group has given no guarantees (2014: none). 
From time to time the group is engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of business. The group carries professional indemnity insurance.  
There is currently no litigation expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the group’s consolidated results or net assets. 
The group also maintained throughout the financial year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of its directors. 
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The group’s principal financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and loan notes. The group has various financial assets such as trade 
receivables, current asset investments and cash and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations. 
The group has not entered into derivative transactions other than the forward currency contracts explained later in this section. It is, and has been 
throughout 2015 and 2014, the group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken for speculative purposes. 
The main risks arising from the group’s financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign exchange risk. The board of directors reviews  
and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. 
Credit risk 
The group seeks to trade only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and any potential  
bad debts identified at an early stage. The maximum exposure is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 14; based on experience and ongoing 
market information about the credit-worthiness of counterparties, we reasonably expect to collect all amounts unimpaired. There are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the group. 
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the group, which include cash and cash equivalents, current investments and 
available-for-sale financial investments, the group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal  
to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
   102 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
102  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Liquidity risk 
The group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations. 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments. 
31 December 2015 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.4 23.9 47.3
Trade and other payables 33.2 – – 7.4 40.6
Deferred consideration – 0.3 – 0.5 0.8
Provisions – – 0.2 – 0.2
 33.2 0.3 23.6 31.8 88.9
31 December 2014 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 13.8 – – 1.7 15.5
Deferred consideration – 0.1 2.0 0.1 2.2
Provisions – – 3.0 – 3.0
 13.8 0.1 5.0 1.8 20.7
Foreign exchange risk 
The group has transactional currency exposures. Such exposure arises from revenues and expenses by any operation where these are in currencies 
other than its functional currency, which can significantly impact our results, cash flows and financial position. Revenue for our broking and financial 
segments is predominantly in US$ and in sterling for our support and research segments.  
Our aim is to manage this risk by reducing the impact of any fluctuations. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to variations in the  
US$ exchange rate and to meet local currency expenditure in the ordinary course of business.  
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US$ exchange rate, with all other variables held constant,  
of the group’s profit before taxation and equity (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities). 
 
Strengthening/ 
(weakening) in 
US dollar rate 
Effect on 
profit before 
taxation 
£m 
Effect on 
equity
£m
2015 5% 1.6 1.7
 (5%) (1.5) (1.5)
   
2014 5% 1.4 3.1
 (5%) (1.3) (2.8)
The group has used its financial resources during 2015 to settle outstanding Norwegian Krone (NOK) denominated bank loans and overdrafts in Norway. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the NOK exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the 
group’s profit before taxation and equity (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities). 
 
Strengthening/ 
(weakening) in 
NOK rate 
Effect on 
profit before 
taxation 
£m 
Effect on 
equity
£m
2015 5% 0.7 0.7
 (5%) (0.6) (0.6)
 
 
 
 
   www.clarksons.com 103
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   103 
Derivative financial instruments 
It is the group’s policy to cover or hedge a proportion of its transactional US$ exposures with foreign currency contracts. Where these are designated 
and documented as hedging instruments in the context of IAS 39 and are demonstrated to be effective, mark-to-market gains and losses are  
recognised directly in equity (see note 24) and transferred to the income statement upon receipt of cash and conversion to sterling of the underlying  
item being hedged. 
The fair value of foreign currency contracts at 31 December are as follows: 
 Liabilities
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Foreign currency contracts 1.4 –
At 31 December 2015 the group had US$110m outstanding forward contracts due for settlement in 2016, 2017 and 2018 (2014: US$100m for 
settlement in 2015 and 2016). 
Capital management 
The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. Total capital is calculated  
as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet. 
The group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. These financial 
statements are prepared on the going concern basis and the group continues to pay dividends. 
A number of the group’s trading entities are subject to regulation by the Norwegian FSA, the FCA in the UK and NFA and FINRA in the US. Regulatory 
capital at entity level depends on the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated. In each case, the approach is to hold an appropriate surplus over the local 
minimum requirement. Each regulated entity complied with their regulatory capital requirements throughout the year. 
27 Financial instruments 
Fair values 
IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: 
– quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1); 
– inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly  
(that is, derived from prices) (level 2); and 
– inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).  
The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December. 
 Level 2
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Liabilities 
Foreign currency contracts 1.4 –
The classification of financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December is as follows: 
Financial assets 
  2015 2014
 
Held for 
trading 
£m 
Available
for sale
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Total
£m
Available 
for sale 
£m 
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Total
£m
Other receivables – – 7.2 7.2 – 5.0 5.0
Investments 0.1 2.1 5.4 7.6 1.9 25.3 27.2
Trade receivables – – 49.8 49.8 – 32.6 32.6
Cash and cash equivalents – – 168.4 168.4 – 152.9 152.9
ESOP reserve – 4.3 – 4.3 5.4 – 5.4
 0.1 6.4 230.8 237.3 7.3 215.8 223.1
 
   104 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
104  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
27 Financial instruments continued 
Financial liabilities 
2015  2014
 
Amortised
cost
£m
Total 
£m 
Amortised 
cost 
£m 
Total
£m
Loan notes 46.1 46.1 – –
Trade payables 24.8 24.8 12.4 12.4
Other payables 15.8 15.8 3.1 3.1
Foreign currency contracts 1.4 1.4 – –
Other tax and social security 2.8 2.8 2.6 2.6
Deferred consideration 0.8 0.8 2.2 2.2
Accruals 98.3 98.3 80.5 80.5
Provisions 0.2 0.2 3.0 3.0
 190.2 190.2 103.8 103.8
Loan notes were initially recognised at fair value and have not been designated as ‘fair value through profit or loss’. These are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. The carrying value of the loan notes and other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities is 
deemed to equate to the fair value at 31 December 2015. 
28 Related party transactions 
As in 2014, the group did not enter into any related party transactions during the year. 
Compensation of key management personnel (including directors) 
There were no key management personnel in the group apart from the Clarkson PLC directors. Details of their compensation are set out below. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 6.5 5.4
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.7 0.8
 
7.3 
6.3
Full remuneration details are provided in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 43 to 57. www.clarksons.com 105
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Clarkson PLC 
 
www.clarksons.com   105 
Report on the parent company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Clarkson PLC’s parent company financial statements (the financial statements): 
– give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its cash flows for the year then ended; 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
What we have audited 
The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: 
– the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015; 
– the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; 
– the parent company cash flow statement for the year then ended; and 
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-
referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
annual report is: 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or 
– otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches  
not visited by us; or 
– the financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration report  Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
  
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of Clarkson PLC 106 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued 
106  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 61, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of  
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of:  
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed;  
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and  
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis  
for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by  
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications  
for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
 
 
John Waters  Senior statutory auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 March 2016 www.clarksons.com 107
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
Parent company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   107 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment B 19.2 1.9
Investment property C 0.3 0.3
Investments in subsidiaries D 302.5 54.0
Deferred tax asset E 3.7 5.7
  325.7 61.9
  
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables F 63.7 44.9
Income tax receivable  2.7 2.6
Investments G 5.4 25.3
Cash and cash equivalents H 0.1 32.1
  71.9 104.9
  
Current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings I (23.1) –
Trade and other payables J (12.7) (19.2)
Provisions K – (3.0)
  (35.8) (22.2)
Net current assets  36.1 82.7
  
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings I (23.0) –
Trade and other payables J (3.6) (0.7)
Employee benefits M (1.5) (10.3)
  (28.1) (11.0)
Net assets  333.7 133.6
  
Capital and reserves  
Share capital N 7.6 5.2
Other reserves O 212.5 33.1
Retained earnings  113.6 95.3
Total equity  333.7 133.6
The financial statements on pages 107 to 124 were approved by the board on 4 March 2016, and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
James Hughes-Hallett  Chairman    Jeff Woyda  Chief financial officer and chief operating officer 
 
Registered number: 1190238 
       
Parent company balance sheet 108 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Parent company statement  
of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 
108  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
 Notes
Share capital
£m
Other reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 5.2 33.1 95.3 133.6
Profit for the year – – 30.7 30.7
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax M – – 6.1 6.1
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 36.8 36.8
Transactions with owners:   
Employee share schemes – 0.7 (0.7) –
Share issues N,O 2.4 178.7 – 181.1
Tax on other employee benefits – – 0.4 0.4
Dividend paid – – (18.2) (18.2)
 2.4 179.4 (18.5) 163.3
Balance at 31 December 2015 7.6 212.5 113.6 333.7
 
  Attributable to equity holders of the parent
 Notes
Share capital
£m
Other reserves  
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 4.7 32.5 46.9 84.1
Profit for the year – – 36.4 36.4
Other comprehensive loss:   
Actuarial loss on employee benefit schemes – net of tax M – – (8.2) (8.2)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 28.2 28.2
Transactions with owners:   
Gain on ESOP shares – – 0.9 0.9
Share-based payments O – 0.6 – 0.6
Share issues N,O 0.5 30.1 – 30.6
Transfer O – (30.1) 30.1 –
Dividend paid – – (10.8) (10.8)
 0.5 0.6 20.2 21.3
Balance at 31 December 2014 5.2 33.1 95.3 133.6
Parent company statement of 
changes in equity www.clarksons.com 109
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
Parent company cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   109 
 Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before taxation  28.9 33.5
Adjustments for:  
Foreign exchange differences  (0.2) (0.4)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  B 1.5 0.9
Depreciation of investment property C – 0.1
Share-based payment expense  0.7 0.8
Impairment of investments  4.6 0.2
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in the income statement  (1.8) (1.9)
Finance revenue   (46.9) (52.8)
Finance costs  1.1 –
Other finance costs – pensions   0.3 0.2
Increase in trade and other receivables   (18.3) (32.2)
(Decrease)/increase in bonus accrual  (2.9) 4.1
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables  (5.0) 3.0
(Decrease)/increase in provisions K (3.0) 1.0
Cash utilised from operations  (41.0) (43.5)
Income tax received  2.8 2.5
Net cash flow from operating activities  (38.2) (41.0)
Cash flows from investing activities  
Interest received  0.1 0.2
Purchase of property, plant and equipment B (18.8) –
Transfer from/(to) current investments (funds on deposit)  20.0 (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including settlement of deferred consideration D (23.5) –
Dividends received from investments  46.9 52.6
Net cash flow from investing activities  24.7 52.7
Cash flows from financing activities  
Dividend paid  (18.2) (10.8)
Repayment of borrowings  (1.5) –
Proceeds from shares issued (net of transaction costs) N 1.2 30.6
Net cash flow from financing activities  (18.5) 19.8
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (32.0) 31.5
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  32.1 0.6
Net foreign exchange differences  – –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December H 0.1 32.1
Parent company cash flow statement 110 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company  
financial statements 
110  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
A Statement of accounting policies 
The accounting policies applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements are the same as those set out in note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements, and have been applied consistently to all periods, with the addition of the following:  
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. 
The parent company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income 
statement or statement of comprehensive income. The profit for the parent company for the year was £30.7m (2014: £36.4m). 
Investments in subsidiaries 
The parent company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less provision for impairment.  Income is recognised from these investments in 
relation to distributions received. 
B Property, plant and equipment 
31 December 2015 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties 
£m
Leasehold 
improvements  
£m 
Office 
 furniture and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2015 1.9 0.5 6.9 9.3
Additions – 14.1 4.7 18.8
Disposals – (0.5) (6.6) (7.1)
At 31 December 2015 1.9 14.1 5.0 21.0
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2015 0.3 0.5 6.6 7.4
Charged during the year 0.1 0.5 0.9 1.5
Disposals – (0.5) (6.6) (7.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.8
Net book value at 31 December 2015 1.5 13.6 4.1 19.2
31 December 2014 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties 
£m
Leasehold 
improvements  
£m 
Office 
 furniture and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January and 31 December 2014 1.9 0.5 6.9 9.3
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2014 0.3 0.4 5.8 6.5
Charged during the year – 0.1 0.8 0.9
At 31 December 2014 0.3 0.5 6.6 7.4
Net book value at 31 December 2014 1.6 – 0.3 1.9
  
Notes to the parent company  
financial statements www.clarksons.com 111
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   111 
C Investment property 
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January and 31 December 0.6 0.6
 
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 0.3 0.2
Charged during the year – 0.1
At 31 December 0.3 0.3
Net book value at 31 December 0.3 0.3
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December 2015 was £0.6m (2014: £0.7m). This was based on valuations from an independent valuer 
who has the appropriate professional qualification and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued. 
D Investments in subsidiaries 
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 54.0 54.0
Additions 253.1 –
Impairment (4.6) –
At 31 December 302.5 54.0
On 2 February 2015, the company acquired 100% of the share capital of RS Platou ASA (Platou), which subsequently changed its name to Clarksons 
Platou AS, for £249.9m. See note 12 of the consolidated financial statements for further details.  On 20 October 2015 the company acquired 100% of 
the share capital of Clarkson Norway AS for £3.2m from its subsidiary Clarkson Overseas Shipbroking Limited, prior to a merger between Clarkson 
Norway AS and Clarksons Platou AS.  
During the year, the company impaired £4.6m of a direct investment in a subsidiary which has ceased all trading this year. The remaining carrying value 
represents the fair value of the net assets recoverable of £0.8m which mainly comprises cash. 
E Deferred tax asset 
  
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 0.3 2.1
 – other employee benefits 3.0 2.9
Other temporary differences 0.4 0.7
  3.7 5.7
Included in the above are deferred tax assets of £0.4m (2014: £0.6m) which are due within one year. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. 
All deferred tax movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences. 
   112 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
112  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
F Trade and other receivables 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Other receivables 0.1 –
Prepayments and accrued income 0.3 0.3
Owed by group companies 63.3 44.6
 63.7 44.9
The company has no trade receivables (2014: none). 
As at 31 December 2015, the company did not provide for related party receivables (2014: £nil).  Further details of related party receivables are included 
in note S. 
G Investments 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Funds on deposit 5.4 25.3
The company held £5.4m (2014: £25.3m) in deposits with a maturity of 95 days at the year-end. These deposits are held with an A-rated  
financial institution. 
H Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 32.1
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £0.1m  
(2014: £32.1m). 
I Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Current  
Loan notes 23.1 –
  
Non-current  
Loan notes 23.0 –
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise the vendor loan notes issued as part of the consideration for the Platou acquisition. Interest is charged  
at 12 month LIBOR plus a margin of 1.25%. The loan notes are repayable in two instalments, on 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017. 
J Trade and other payables 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Current  
Other payables – 0.4
Owed to group companies 1.5 5.9
Accruals and deferred income 11.2 12.9
 12.7 19.2
  
Non-current  
Other payables 3.6 0.7
Other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand.   
Further details of related party payables are included in note S.  
   www.clarksons.com 113
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   113 
K Provisions 
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 3.0 –
Transferred from non-current – 2.0
Arising during the year – 1.0
Utilised during the year (1.7) –
Released during the year (1.3) –
At 31 December – 3.0
As at 31 December 2014, provisions were recognised for the dilapidation of leasehold premises and the onerous lease on St. Magnus House.   
During 2015 the dilapidation provision and onerous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement. 
L Share-based payment plans 
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.7 0.8
For more information on the parent company share-based payment plans, see note 21 of the consolidated financial statements. 
M Employee benefits 
The company operates two defined benefit pension schemes, being the Clarkson PLC scheme and the Plowrights scheme, which are funded  
by the payment of contributions to separately administered trust funds. All financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the two 
separate schemes. 
The schemes’ assets are invested in a range of pooled pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers. Defined benefit pension 
arrangements give rise to open ended commitments and liabilities for the sponsoring company. As a consequence, the company closed its original 
defined benefit section of the Clarkson PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004. This section was closed to further accrual for all existing 
members as from 31 March 2006. The Plowrights scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006. 
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates of contribution. 
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared. 
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme showed a pension deficit on the original scheme of £6.1m as at 31 March 2013.  Clarkson PLC and the 
Trustees agreed to continue the five year funding plan, which ended on 31 March 2015, at the rate of £1.0m per annum; they have further agreed to 
continue to fund at this level to 31 December 2016. 
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of £2.9m as at 31 March 2013.  Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to continue  
the funding plan, which ends on 28 February 2017 at the rate of £0.9m per annum. 
The company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: 
Asset volatility 
The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if scheme assets underperform this yield, this  
will create a deficit. Both schemes hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while 
providing volatility and risk in the short-term. 
Changes in bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes’  
bond holdings. 
Inflation risk 
Some of the company pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majority of the schemes’ assets are 
either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. 
Life expectancy 
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the 
schemes’ liabilities. 
   114 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
114  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
M Employee benefits continued 
Other pension arrangements 
The company also operates various other defined contribution pension arrangements. Where required the company also makes contributions into  
these schemes. 
The company incurs no material expenses in the provision of post-retirement benefits other than pensions. 
The following tables summarise amounts recognised in the balance sheet and the components of net benefit expense recognised in the  
income statement: 
Recognised in the balance sheet 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 160.1 163.0
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (160.2) (173.3)
 (0.1) (10.3)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (1.4) –
Benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet (1.5) (10.3)
A deferred tax asset on the above recognised liability amounting to £0.3m (2014: £2.1m) is shown in note E. 
Recognised in the income statement 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Expected return on schemes’ assets – recognised in other finance costs – pensions 5.4 6.9
Interest cost on benefit obligation and minimum funding requirement – recognised in other finance costs – pensions (5.8) (7.0)
Service cost – recognised in administrative expenses (2014: other finance costs – pensions) (0.2) (0.1)
Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement (0.6) (0.2)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Actual return on schemes’ assets 3.2 17.1
Less: expected return on schemes’ assets (5.4) (6.9)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on schemes’ assets (2.2) 10.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit obligations 11.0 (21.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 8.8 (11.2)
Tax (charge)/credit on actuarial gain/(loss) (1.6) 2.3
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (1.4) 0.9
Tax credit/(charge) on minimum funding requirement 0.3 (0.2)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) on employee benefit obligations 6.1 (8.2)
  
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (17.7) (26.5)
 
   www.clarksons.com 115
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   115 
Schemes’ assets 
2015 2014
% £m % £m
Equities* 49.5 79.2 47.4 77.2
Government bonds* 32.2 51.5 34.3 55.9
Corporate bonds* 13.5 21.6 13.4 21.9
Property 4.1 6.6 3.7 6.0
Cash and other assets 0.7 1.2 1.2 2.0
 100.0 160.1 100.0 163.0
* Based on quoted market prices. 
Changes in the fair value of schemes’ assets are as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 163.0 152.7
Expected return on assets 5.4 6.9
Contributions 1.9 1.9
Service costs (0.2) (0.1)
Insurance income for insured pensioners 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (7.9) (8.7)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (2.2) 10.2
At 31 December 160.1 163.0
The company expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute £1.9m to its defined benefit pension 
schemes in 2016 (2015: £1.9m). 
Defined benefit obligations 
Changes in the fair value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 173.3 153.6
Interest costs 5.8 7.0
Actuarial (gain)/loss (11.0) 21.4
Benefits paid (7.9) (8.7)
At 31 December 160.2 173.3
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 
 
2015 
%
2014 
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.8 – 7.0 2.8 – 7.0
Price inflation (RPI) 3.2 3.2
Price inflation (CPI) 2.2 2.2
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.8 3.4
   116 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
116  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
M Employee benefits continued 
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obligation of 31 December 2015 and 2014 are based on the ‘SAPS Light’ standard 
mortality tables published by the actuarial profession. These tables have been adjusted to allow for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy. 
Examples of the assumed future life expectancy are given in the table below: 
 Additional years
 2015 2014
Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65:   
Pensioners retiring in the year – male 24.4 24.4
 – female 25.6 25.6
Pensioners retiring in 20 years’ time – male 26.2 26.1
 – female 27.5 27.5
Historical comparative information 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013  
£m 
2012*  
£m 
2011 
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 160.1 163.0 152.7 144.0 138.0
Defined benefit obligations (160.2) (173.3) (153.6) (152.1) (141.0)
Unrecognised asset – – – – (1.1)
Minimum funding requirement (1.4) – (0.9) (1.3) (2.5)
Benefit liability (1.5) (10.3) (1.8) (9.4) (6.6)
   
Experience adjustments on schemes’ assets (2.2) 10.2 8.5 3.4 1.9
Experience adjustments on schemes’ liabilities 11.0 (21.4) 1.4 – (0.3)
* Restated for the effects of IAS 19 (revised). 
Sensitivities 
The table below provides information on the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant actuarial assumptions. The 
table shows the impact of changes to each assumption in isolation although, in practice, changes to assumptions may occur at the same time and can 
either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined benefit obligation. These sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as 
used for the main calculations. The weighted average duration of the defined obligation is 16 years. 
 
Change in 
assumption 
Change in 
defined benefit 
obligation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities +0.5% -7.7%
 -0.5% +8.5%
Price inflation (RPI) +0.5% +6.1%
 -0.5% -5.7%
An increase of one year in the assumed life expectancy for both males and females would increase the defined benefit obligation by 4.1% (2014: 4.2%). 
   www.clarksons.com 117
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   117 
N Share capital 
Ordinary shares of 25p each: 
2015
Number
2014 
Number 
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 20,598,389 18,984,691 5.2 4.7
Additions 9,633,378 1,613,698 2.4 0.5
At 31 December 30,231,767 20,598,389 7.6 5.2
On 2 February 2015, the company issued 9,518,369 shares at a nominal value of £2.4m as part of the acquisition of Platou, refer to note 12 of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Throughout 2015, the company issued 115,009 shares at a total value of £1.2m relating to the 2012 ShareSave scheme. The difference between the 
exercise price of £10.82 and the nominal value of £0.25 has been taken to the share premium account, see note O. 
On 27 November 2014, the company placed 1,613,698 ordinary shares in the capital of the company, raising gross proceeds of £31.5m. The proceeds 
of £30.6m, net of £0.9m transaction costs, are shown in the statement of changes in equity. 
O Other reserves 
31 December 2015 
Share 
premium 
£m
Employee 
benefits 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m 
Merger 
reserve
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2015 27.8 3.3 2.0 – 33.1
Employee share schemes:  
  Share-based payments expense – 1.0 – – 1.0
  Transfer to profit and loss on vesting – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Total employee share schemes – 0.7 – – 0.7
Share issues 1.2 – – 177.5 178.7
At 31 December 2015 29.0 4.0 2.0 177.5 212.5
31 December 2014 
Share 
premium 
£m
Employee 
benefits 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m 
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 27.8 2.7 2.0 – 32.5
Share-based payments – 0.6 – – 0.6
Share issues – – – 30.1 30.1
Transfer – – – (30.1) (30.1)
At 31 December 2014 27.8 3.3 2.0 – 33.1
Nature and purpose of other reserves 
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve arose on previous share buy-backs by the company. 
Merger reserve 
This comprises the premium on the share placing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou acquisition. No share 
premium is recorded in the financial statements, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
   118 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
118  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
P Financial commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The company has entered into a commercial lease in relation to land and buildings on the basis that it is not in the company’s best interests to purchase 
these assets. The lease has a life of 15 years with renewal terms included in the contract. There are no restrictions placed upon the company by entering 
into this lease. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Within one year 1.1 4.3
After one year but not more than five years 16.1 8.0
After five years 41.0 34.5
 58.2 46.8
The company has sublet space in its property. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease 
agreements as at 31 December 2015 is £1.0m (2014: £3.5m). 
Contingencies 
The company has given no financial commitments to suppliers (2014: none). 
The company has given no guarantees (2014: none). 
From time to time the company may be engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of business. The company carries professional indemnity insurance. 
There are currently no liabilities expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the company’s results or net assets. 
The company purchased and maintained throughout the year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors. 
Q Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The company’s principal financial liabilities comprised loans from group companies and accruals. The company has various financial assets such as 
current asset investments and cash, which arise directly from its operations. 
The company has not entered into any derivative transactions. 
The main risks arising from the company’s financial instruments are credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Credit risk 
With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents and current investments, the company’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of 
the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
Liquidity risk 
The company monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations. 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the company’s financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments. 
31 December 2015 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.4 23.9 47.3
Trade and other payables – – – 3.6 3.6
 – – 23.4 27.5 50.9
31 December 2014 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 0.4 – – 0.7 1.1
Provisions – – 3.0 – 3.0
 0.4 – 3.0 0.7 4.1
   www.clarksons.com 119
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
 
www.clarksons.com   119 
R Financial instruments 
The classification of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December is as follows: 
Financial assets 
2015 2014
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Total  
£m 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Total 
£m
Other receivables 0.1 0.1 ––
Owed by group companies 63.3 63.3 44.6 44.6
Investments 5.4 5.4 25.3 25.3
Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 32.1 32.1
 68.9 68.9 102.0 102.0
Financial liabilities 
2015 2014
Amortised 
cost 
£m
Total  
£m 
Amortised 
cost 
£m
Total 
£m
Loan notes 46.1 46.1 ––
Other payables 3.6 3.6 1.1 1.1
Owed to group companies 1.5 1.5 5.9 5.9
Accruals 11.1 11.1 12.9 12.9
Provisions – – 3.0 3.0
 62.3 62.3 22.9 22.9
   120 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
120  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
S Related party transactions 
During the year, the company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. 
Transactions with subsidiaries during the year were as follows: 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Management fees charged 2.7 1.8
Rent receivable 2.1 –
Dividends received 46.9 52.6
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries  (4.6) –
Balances with subsidiaries at 31 December were as follows: 
 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Amounts owed by related parties 63.3 44.6
Amounts owed to related parties (1.5) (5.9)
There were no terms or conditions attached to these balances. 
Compensation of key management personnel (including directors) 
There were no key management personnel in the company apart from the Clarkson PLC directors. Details of their compensation are set out in note 28 to 
the consolidated financial statements.  www.clarksons.com 121
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
121  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
T Subsidiaries 
The group had the following subsidiaries at 31 December 2015: 
Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of 
equity 
shares
Clarkson Capital Markets LLC* USA Debt and equity underwritings, private placements,  
equity trading and financial advisory services 
Indirect 100
Clarkson Morocco Sarl* Morocco Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Port Services Limited England and Wales Provision of ship agency and port services Indirect 100
Clarkson Property Holdings Limited England and Wales Provision of property-related services Direct 100
Clarkson Research Services Limited England and Wales Provision of research services and products relating to 
shipping and offshore 
Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipbroking (Shanghai) Co 
Limited 
China Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipping Agency Egypt Provision of ship agency and port services Indirect **48
Clarkson Shipping Services India Private 
Limited 
India Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Valuations Limited England and Wales Provision of valuation services to the shipping industry Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Africa) Limited England and Wales Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Australia) Pty Limited Australia Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Brasil) Ltda* Brazil Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Hellas) Limited Marshall Islands *** Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Italia) Srl Italy Shipbroking Direct 100
Clarksons Platou (Nederland) BV* The Netherlands Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Offshore) Limited England and Wales Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (South Africa) (Pty) 
Limited* 
South Africa Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Sweden) AB* Sweden Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou AS Norway Shipbroking Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Asia Limited Hong Kong Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Asia Pte. Limited Singapore Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Commodities USA LLC USA Introducing broker for LPG swaps Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Debt and Leasing 
Solutions Limited 
England and Wales Provision of advice on finance structuring for  
shipping-related projects 
Direct 100
Clarksons Platou DMCC UAE Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Drift AS Norway Provision of property-related services Indirect 25
Clarksons Platou Futures Limited England and Wales Brokerage of shipping-related derivative financial instruments Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Futures Pte. Limited Singapore Brokerage of shipping-related derivative financial instruments Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou GmbH* Germany Shipbroking Indirect 100
   122 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
122  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
T Subsidiaries continued 
Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of 
equity 
shares
Clarksons Platou Investor Services AS Norway Accounting services Indirect 50.02
Clarksons Platou Legal Services Limited England and Wales Provision of legal services to the shipping industry Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Offshore (Asia) Pte. 
Limited 
Singapore Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Project Finance AS Norway Shipping and offshore project syndication Indirect 50.02
Clarksons Platou Project Sales AS Norway Equity placements for shipping, offshore and real estate 
projects and secondary trading of project ownership  
Indirect 31
Clarksons Platou Property Management 
AS 
Norway Provision of property-related services Indirect 25
Clarksons Platou Real Estate AS Norway Real estate project syndication Indirect 31
Clarksons Platou Securities AS Norway Equity and fixed income sales and trading, research and 
corporate finance services, including equity and debt capital 
markets and M&A transactions 
Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Securities Inc USA Equity and fixed income sales and trading, research and 
corporate finance services, including equity and debt capital 
markets and M&A transactions 
Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Securities Limited England and Wales Provision of investment advice to the shipping industry Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Shipbroking  
(Switzerland) SA 
Switzerland Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Shipping Services  
USA LLC 
USA Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Tankers AS Norway Shipbroking Indirect 100
Company Event Management Limited England and Wales Event management services Indirect 100
Gibb Tools Limited Scotland Supply of tools for industrial, commercial and retail use Indirect 100
H. Clarkson & Company Limited England and Wales Shipbroking Indirect 100
LNG Shipping Solutions Limited England and Wales Shipbroking Indirect 100
Manfin Consult AS* Norway Shipping and offshore project syndication Indirect 51.1
Norwegian Marine Services AS Norway Shipping and offshore project syndication Indirect 100
Shiplease Management AS Norway Shipping and offshore project syndication Indirect 50.02
Clarkson Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Holdings Limited* England and Wales Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Overseas Shipbroking Limited England and Wales Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Research Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Shipbroking Group Limited England and Wales Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Shipping Investments Limited England and Wales Holding company Direct 100
Clarksons Platou (USA) Inc* USA Holding company Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Offshore (Singapore)  
Pte. Limited 
Singapore Holding Company Indirect 100
Genchem Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Direct 100
Afromar Properties (Pty) Limited* South Africa Non-trading Indirect 100
Bonus Plus Investments Limited Hong Kong Non-trading Indirect 100
   www.clarksons.com 123
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
 
www.clarksons.com   123 
     
 
Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of 
equity 
shares
Boxton Holding AS Norway Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson (BVI) Limited* British Virgin Islands Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Logistics (HK) Limited Hong Kong Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson New Zealand Limited* New Zealand  Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Paris France Non-trading Direct 100
Clarkson Port Services Ireland Limited Ireland Non-trading Indirect 100
Diligent Challenger Limited Hong Kong Non-trading Indirect 100
Rigships FZCO* UAE Non-trading Indirect 55
RS Platou (Hellas) Limited Cyprus Non-trading Indirect 51
RS Platou (USA) Inc* USA Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou Africa Limited Jersey Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou Energy LLP England and Wales Non-trading Indirect 51
RS Platou Finance Singapore Pte. Limited* Singapore Non-trading Indirect 50.02
RS Platou Houston Inc* USA Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou LLP England and Wales Non-trading Indirect 51
Stewart Offshore Ghana Limited Ghana Non-trading Indirect 75
Stewart Offshore Services (Jersey) Limited Jersey Non-trading Indirect 100
Calypso Shipping Investments Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Capital Limited* England and Wales Dormant Direct 100
Clarkson Dry Cargo Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Ewings Limited Northern Ireland Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Investment Services (DIFC) Limited* UAE Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson IQ Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Logistics Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Market Analysis Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Sale and Purchase Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipbrokers Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipping Services  
Acquisition USA LLC 
USA Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Tankers Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Coastal Shipping Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
EnShip Limited* Scotland Dormant Indirect 100
Halcyon Shipping Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
J. O. Plowright & Co. (Holdings) Limited* England and Wales Dormant Direct 100
Levelseas Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
LNG UK PLC* England and Wales Dormant Direct 100
   124 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Financial statements 
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
124  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 
T Subsidiaries continued 
Company 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of 
equity 
shares
Marinet (Ship Agencies) Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Michael F. Ewings (Shipping) Limited Northern Ireland Dormant Indirect 100
Oilfield Publications Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou AM Holding AS Norway Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Economic Research AS* Norway Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Geneve (Dry) SA* Switzerland Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Offshore AS* Norway Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Shipbrokers AS* Norway Dormant Indirect 100
Samuel Stewart & Co (London) Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Shipvalue.net Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Small and Co. (Shipping) Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Stewart Offshore Services Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
The Stewart Group Limited* England and Wales Dormant Indirect 100
Waterfront Services Limited* Northern Ireland Dormant Indirect 100
* Exempt from audit ** 100% controlled  *** Trading in Greece       www.clarksons.com 125
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Aframax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons as between 80-120,000 dwt.
AG Arabian Gulf.
AHTS Anchor Handling Tug and Supply vessel. Used to tow offshore drilling and production units to location and 
deploy their anchors, and also perform a range of other support roles.
Ballast voyage A voyage with no cargo on board to get a ship in position for the next loading port or docking. On voyage 
the ship is said to be in ballast.
Bareboat charter A hire or lease of a vessel from one company to another (the charterer), which in turn provides crew, bunkers, 
stores and pays all operating costs.
Bulk cargo Unpackaged cargoes such as coal, ore and grain.
Bunkers A ship’s fuel.
Cabotage Transport of goods between two ports or places located in the same country, often restricted to domestic 
carriers.
Capesize (cape) Bulk ship size range defined by Clarksons as 100,000 dwt or larger.
Capesize 4tc An index derived from an average of four Capesize time charter rates, published by the Baltic Exchange.
Cbm Cubic metres. Used as a measurement of cargo capacity for ships such as gas carriers.
Cgt Compensated gross tonnage. This unit of measurement was developed for measuring the level of 
shipbuilding output and is calculated by applying a conversion factor, which reflects the amount of work 
required to build a ship, to a vessel’s gross registered tonnage.
Charterer Cargo owner or another person/company who hires a ship.
Charter-party Transport contract between shipowner and shipper of goods.
CIF Cost, insurance and freight. Delivery of goods is the seller’s responsibility to the port of discharge. The freight 
is paid for by the supplier of goods.
ClarkSea index A weighted average index of earnings for the main vessel types where the weighting is based on the number 
of vessels in each fleet sector.
Clean products Refined oil products such as naphtha.
COA Contract of Affreightment. An agreement to transport a defined amount of cargo at an agreed freight rate, 
with the shipowner choosing the ship.
Combination carrier Ship capable of carrying oil or dry cargo, thereby increasing the productivity of the vessel. Typically termed 
OBO or Ore/Oiler.
Containership A cargo ship specifically equipped with cell guides for the carriage of containerised cargo.
Crude oil Unrefined oil.
CST Centistokes. A measure of viscosity used to classify marine fuels.
Daily operating costs The costs of a vessel’s technical operation, crewing, insurance and maintenance, but excluding costs of 
financing, referred to in the industry as opex.
Demurrage Money paid to shipowner by charterer, shipper or receiver for failing to complete loading/discharging within 
time allowed according to charter-party.
Dirty products Less refined oil products such as fuel oil.
Dry (market) Generic term for the bulk market.
Dry cargo carrier A ship carrying general cargoes or sometimes bulk cargo.
Dry docking To put a vessel into a dry dock for inspection, repair and maintenance. Normally done on a regular basis.
Dwt Deadweight tonne. A measure expressed in metric tonnes (1,000 kg) or long tonnes (1,016 kg) of a ship’s 
carrying capacity, including bunker oil, fresh water, crew and provisions. This is the most important 
commercial measure of the capacity.
FFA Forward Freight Agreement. A cash contract for differences requiring no physical delivery based on freight 
rates on standardised trade routes.
Other information
Glossary 126 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
FOB Free on Board. Cost of the delivery of goods is the seller’s responsibility only up to the port of loading. The 
freight is paid for by the buyer of the goods.
Forward order book (FOB) Estimated commissions collectable over the duration of the contract as principal payments fall due. The 
forward order book is not discounted.
FOSVA Forward Ship Value Agreement. An FFA based product designed specifically for the sale and purchase 
market.
FPSO Floating Production, Storage and Offloading unit. Used offshore for the production and processing of 
hydrocarbons in remote deepwater areas.
Freight rate The agreed charge for the carriage of cargo expressed per tonne of cargo (also Worldscale in the tanker 
market) or as a lump sum.
Handysize Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 10-40,000 dwt or tanker size range defined by Clarksons as 
10-60,000 dwt.
Handymax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 dwt. Includes supramax and ultramax vessels.
IMO International Maritime Organisation. A United Nations agency devoted to shipping.
ISM code International Safety Management code for the safe operation of ships and for pollution prevention as adopted 
by the IMO.
LGC Large Gas Carrier. Vessel defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 cbm.
LNG Liquefied Natural Gas.
LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
LR1 Long Range 1. Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 60,000-80,000 dwt.
LR2 Long Range 2. Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 80,000-120,000 dwt.
MGC Mid-sized Gas Carrier. Vessel defined by Clarksons as 20-40,000 cbm.
MLP Master Limited Partnership. A limited partnership that is publicly traded on a securities exchange.
MOA Memorandum of Agreement.
MR Medium Range. A product tanker of around 45-60,000 dwt.
MT Metric tonne (see tonne).
NGL Natural gas liquids.
OBO Oil, Bulk, Ore carrier (see combination carrier).
Oil tanker Tanker carrying crude oil or refined oil products.
OPEC Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.
OSV Offshore Support Vessels. Such as AHTSs and PSVs. Ships engaged in providing support to offshore rigs 
and oil platforms.
OTC Over the counter. Directly between two parties, without any supervision of an exchange.
Panamax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 65-100,000 dwt or tanker size range defined as 60-80,000 
dwt. Containership size range defined as vessels 3,000+ TEU capable of transiting the Panama Canal.
Parcel tanker Tanker equipped to carry several types of cargo simultaneously.
Product tanker Tanker that carries refined oil products.
PSV Platform Supply Vessel. Used in supporting offshore rigs and platforms by delivering materials to them from 
onshore.
Reefer A vessel capable of handling refrigerated cargoes such as meat, fish and fruit.
Ro-Ro Ship with roll-on roll-off ramps for wheeled or tracked cargo.
Semi-refrigerated Semi-refrigerated gas carriers. Ships which employ a combination of refrigeration and pressurisation to 
maintain the transported gas in liquid form.
Other information
Glossary continued www.clarksons.com 127
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Shipbroker A person/company who on behalf of a shipowner/shipper negotiates a deal for the transportation of cargo at 
an agreed price. Shipbrokers also act on behalf of shipping companies in negotiating the purchasing and 
selling of ships, both secondhand tonnage and newbuilding contracts.
Shuttle tanker Tanker carrying oil from offshore fields to terminals.
SOx/NOx Sulphur Oxides/Nitrogen Oxides. A ship’s emissions of which are subject to regulatory limits.
Spot business Broker commission negotiated and invoiced within the same business year.
Spot market Short-term contracts for voyage, trip or short-term time charters, normally no longer than three months in 
duration.
Suezmax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons as 120-200,000 dwt.
Supramax A sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet defined by Clarksons as 50-60,000 dwt.
TEU 20-foot Equivalent Units. The unit of measurement of a standard 20 foot long container.
Time charter An arrangement whereby a shipowner places a crewed ship at a charterer’s disposal for a certain  
period. Freight is customarily paid periodically in advance. The charterer also pays for bunker, port and  
canal charges.
Time Charter Equivalent 
(TCE)
Gross freight income less voyage costs (bunker, port and canal charges), usually expressed in US$ per day.
Tonne Imperial/Metric tonne of 2,240 lbs/1,000 kilos (2,204 lbs).
ULCC Ultra Large Crude Carrier. Tanker of more than 320,000 dwt.
Ultramax A modern sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet, defined by Clarksons as 60-65,000 dwt, 
including some vessels up to 70,000 dwt.
VLCC Very Large Crude Carrier. Tanker over 200,000 dwt.
VLGC Very Large Gas Carrier. Vessel defined by Clarksons as 65,000 cbm or larger.
Voyage charter The transportation of cargo from port(s) of loading to port(s) of discharge. Payment is normally per tonne of 
cargo, and the shipowner pays for bunker, port and canal charges.
Voyage costs Costs directly related to a specific voyage (e.g. bunker, port and canal charges).
Wet (market) Generic term for the tanker market.
Worldscale (WS) An international index of freight for tankers. Worldscale is a schedule of freight rates for a standard ship in US 
dollars per tonne of oil for an array of oil routes. The rates listed in the table are designated as Worldscale 
Flat or WS100 and are revised annually. 128 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Other information
Five year financial summary
Income statement
2015* 
£m
2014* 
£m
2013* 
£m
2012*
†
 
£m
2011* 
£m
Revenue 301.8 237.9 198.0 176.2 194.6
Cost of sales (10.3) (13.3) (6.2) (6.3) (3.4)
Trading profit 291.5 224.6 191.8 169.9 191.2
Administrative expenses (242.0) (191.3) (166.9) (150.8) (161.0)
Operating profit 49.5 33.3 24.9 19.1 30.2
Profit before taxation 50.5 33.8 25.1 20.0 32.2
Taxation (12.6) (8.7) (6.9) (6.0) (9.5)
Profit for the year 37.9 25.1 18.2 14.0 22.7
* Before exceptional items and acquisition costs.
† Restated for the effects of IAS 19 (revised).
Cash flow
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 24.7 37.8 22.8 (4.4) 7.2
Balance sheet
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Non-current assets 310.7 65.7 63.9 65.2 63.5
Inventories 0.9 1.4 0.9 – –
Trade and other receivables (including income tax receivable) 63.0 44.2 47.8 33.5 38.1
Current asset investments 5.7 25.3 25.2 25.2 –
Cash and cash equivalents 168.4 152.9 96.9 89.4 132.9
Current liabilities (168.5) (108.1) (89.4) (72.2) (99.9)
Non-current liabilities (39.3) (14.1) (7.6) (15.1) (11.3)
Net assets 340.9 167.3 137.7 126.0 123.3
Statistics
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Earnings per share – basic* 121.9p 134.2p 98.0p 74.8p 121.5p
Dividend per share 62p 60p 56p 51p 50p
* Before exceptional items and acquisition costs. Principal trading offices
United Kingdom 
London 
Registered office 
Clarkson PLC 
Commodity Quay 
St. Katharine Docks 
London 
E1W 1BF 
United Kingdom
Registered number: 1190238
Contact: Andi Case 
Tel: +44 20 7334 0000 
www.clarksons.com
Ipswich 
Maritime House 
19a St. Helens Street 
Ipswich 
IP4 1HE 
United Kingdom
Contact: David Rumsey 
Tel: +44 1473 297 300
Ledbury 
15 The Homend 
Ledbury 
Herefordshire 
HR8 1BN 
United Kingdom
Contact: Shaun Sturge 
Tel: +44 1531 634 561
Aberdeen 
70 St. Clement Street 
Aberdeen 
Aberdeenshire 
AB11 5BD 
United Kingdom
Contact: Innes Cameron 
Tel: +44 1224 211 500
271 King Street 
Aberdeen 
Aberdeenshire 
AB24 5AN 
United Kingdom
Contact: Sean Maclean 
Tel: +44 1224 620 944
City Wharf 
Shiprow 
Aberdeen 
Aberdeenshire 
AB11 5BY 
United Kingdom
Contact: Paul Love 
Tel: +44 1224 256 600
Belfast 
Hurst House 
15-19 Corporation Square 
Belfast 
BT1 3AJ 
United Kingdom
Contact: Michael Ewings 
Tel: +44 2890 242 242
Australia 
Melbourne 
Level 12 
636 St. Kilda Road 
Melbourne 
VIC 3004 
Australia
Contact: Michael Addison  
Tel: +61 3 9867 6800
Perth 
Level 10 
16 St Georges Terrace 
Perth 
WA 6000 
Australia
Contact: Mark Rowland 
Tel: +61 8 6210 8700
Brazil 
16th Floor Manhattan Tower 
Av. Rio Branco 89 
Suite 1601 
Rio de Janeiro 
20.040-004 
Brazil
Contact: Jens Behrendt 
Tel: +55 21 3923 8803
Hong Kong 
3209-3214 Sun Hung Kai Centre 
30 Harbour Road 
Wanchai 
Hong Kong
Contact: Martin Rowe 
Tel: +852 2866 3111
China 
Room 1303–1304 
Standard Chartered Tower 
201 Century Avenue 
Shanghai 
China 200120
Contact: Cheng Yu Wang 
Tel: +86 21 6103 0100
Egypt 
Alexandria 
31 Elbatal Ahmed Abdel Aziz Street 
Kasr El Ahlam Building 
3rd Floor Apartment 305 
Kafr Abdo 
Alexandria 
Egypt
Contact: Mohamed Ibraidm Amin 
Tel: +20 3 543 2640
Cairo 
2nd Floor 
2 El Hegaz Street 
Roxi 
Heliopolis 
Cairo 
Egypt
Contact: Mohamed Reft Metawei 
Tel: +20 2 2454 0509
Germany 
Johannisbollwerk 20, 5. fl 
20459 
Hamburg 
Germany
Contact: Jan Aldag 
Tel: +49 40 3197 66 110
Greece 
62 Kifissias Avenue 
15125 Marousi 
Greece
Contact: Savvas Athanasiadis 
Tel: +30 210 458 6700
India 
507–508 The Address 
1 Golf Course Road 
Sector 56 
Gurgaon 
122011 Haryana 
India
Contact: Amit Mehta 
Tel: +91 124 281 3000
Italy 
Piazza Rossetti 3A 
16129 Genoa 
Italy
Contact: Massimo Dentice 
Tel: +39 0 10 55401
Morocco 
92 Boulevard d’Anfa 
20100 Casablanca 
Morocco
Contact: Hassan Benjelloun 
Tel: +212 522 493970
The Netherlands 
Blaak 522 
3011 TA Rotterdam 
The Netherlands
Contact: Hans Brinkhorst 
Tel: +31 10 7422 833
Norway 
Munkedamsveien 62C 
0270 Oslo 
Norway
Contact: Peter M. Anker 
Tel: +47 2311 2000
Singapore 
12 Marina View 
# 29–01 Asia Square Tower 2 
Singapore 018961
Contact: Giles Lane / Christian 
Bartz-Johannessen 
Tel: +65 6339 0036
South Africa 
PO Box 5890 
Rivonia 
Johannesburg 2128 
South Africa
Contact: Simon Lester 
Tel: +27 11 803 0008
704 Somerset Square 
Highfield Street 
Green Point 
Cape Town 8001 
South Africa
Contact: Simon Pethick 
Tel: +27 21 440 3870
Sweden 
Uppsala Castle 
Uppsala 
Sweden 75237
Contact: Torbjorn Helmfrid 
Tel: +46 18 502 075
Switzerland 
Rue de la Fontaine 1 
1204 
Geneva 
Switzerland
Contact: David Collins 
Tel: +41 22 308 9900
United Arab Emirates 
Office 2604 
Reef Tower 
Jumeirah Lakes Towers 
Sheikh Zayed Road 
Dubai 
UAE 
PO Box 102929
Contact: Esam Balla 
Tel: +971 4 450 9400
USA 
Houston 
1333 West Loop South 
Suites 1525 and 1550 
Houston 
Texas 77027 
USA
Contact: Roger Horton/Jeff Spittel/
Chad Nichols 
Tel: +1 713 235 7400
New York 
21st Floor 
280 Park Avenue 
New York NY 10017
Contact: Omar Nokta 
Tel: +1 212 317 7080
Contact: Philipp Bau 
Tel: +1 212 314 0970
FSC
®
 – The Forest Stewardship Council
®
 runs a global certification 
system that ensures timber produced in certified forests has been 
traced from the tree to the end user. The FSC
®
 certification claim  
can only be used by certified printers.
Thank you.
This report is available at: 
www.clarksons.com Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Clarkson PLC 
Commodity Quay 
St. Katharine Docks 
London E1W 1BF 
United Kingdom 
+44 20 7334 0000
www.clarksons.com
