 Cobham plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The most important thing we build is trust Highlights of the year
Front cover image:
A technology leader in connectivity solutions
Cobham is a world leading supplier of high 
performance equipment and solutions that 
enable connectivity for voice, data and video 
applications while on the move. Its small and 
light products have low power consumption 
and excel in demanding environments such 
as on aircraft or in large infrastructure where 
reception is poor including buildings, tunnels, 
airport terminals and stadiums.
Inside cover image:
Global coverage for aircraft connectivity
Cobham provides a range of technology 
for aircraft, including content on every Airbus. 
It provides sophisticated antennas, avionics 
and SA TCOM products for communication 
and navigation, with applications in the cockpit 
and cabin for a commercial aircraft as well as 
providing signal jamming and radar technology 
for military aircraft, in addition to leading missile 
guidance capabilities.
Cobham is a leading global technology and services innovator, 
respected for providing solutions for the most challenging problems, 
from deep space to the depths of the ocean.
We employ 1 1,500 people on five continents, and we have 
customers and partners in more than 100 countries.
Dividend
11. 18p
(2014: 10.65p)
Earnings per ordinary share – underlying*
19.5p
(2014: 18.5p)
Total revenue
£2,072m
(2014: £1,852m)
Earnings per ordinary share – basic**
(3.3)p
(2014: 2.6p)
COBHAM OFFERS AN INNOV A TIVE RANGE
OF TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES TO SOL VE
CHALLENGING PROBLEMS IN COMMERCIAL,
DEFENCE AND SECURITY MARKETS www.cobham.com
1
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Contents
–  Robust performance driven by the full year contribution from the Aeroflex 
acquisition; integration accelerated and anticipated to be complete by the 
end of 201 7 with total costs and benefits in line with original expectations
–  Group order intake up 1 3% and book-to-bill of 1.04x; Group benefiting 
from multi-year orders on missile programmes
–  T otal revenue growth of 1 2% and trading profit increase of 16%; Group 
organic revenue declined 1 %, with good non-US defence/security growth 
offset by commercial headwinds
–  Private Venture investment increased to £1 38m or 8.2% of revenue 
(2014:≈£97m or 6.7%); technology investment closely aligned to attractive 
market opportunities
–  Net debt reduction to £1,207m (2014: £1,223m) includes benefit of 
divestments but also £80m adverse foreign exchange impact and 
accelerated Aeroflex integration costs
–  Proactive portfolio divestments to allow increased focus on core 
capabilities; Surveillance divestment completed in early 2016
–  Statutory profit, £(40)m, and EPS, (3.3)p, include non-underlying charges 
associated with the acquisition and integration of Aeroflex, net profit 
from divestments and goodwill impairment
–  Recommended 5% increase in full year dividend
Strategic Report
Group at a Glance  2
Chairman’s Statement  4
What We Do 6
Our Capabilities and Investment Attributes 8
Our Markets 10
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 12
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators 14
Communications and Connectivity Sector 18
Mission Systems Sector 20
Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector 22
Aviation Services Sector 24
Financial Review 26
Principal Risks 32
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 38
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors 42
Corporate Governance Report 44
Compliance with the UK  
Corporate Governance Code 49
Nomination Committee Report 50
Audit Committee Report 52
Directors’ Remuneration Report 58
Other Statutory Information 67
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 71
Group Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report 72
Group Financial Statements 77
Parent Company  
Independent Auditors’ Report 119
Parent Company  
Financial Statements 120
Other Information
Group Financial Record 128
Shareholder Information 129
Glossary 130
Definitions 132 
The Company is registered in England and Wales under 
company number 30470. The Company’s registered 
office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK.
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain 
forward looking statements with regard to the operations, 
performance and financial condition of the Group. By their 
nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results to differ from 
those anticipated. Nothing contained in this Annual Report 
and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Visit us online at 
www.cobham.com 
You can also view this Annual  
Report and Accounts online at  
www.cobhaminvestors.com
*  For definitions, please refer to page 132. 
** After M&A related costs, net profit from divestments and goodwill impairment. www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
2
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Group at a Glance
The Group in 2015
In line with its strategic objectives, the Group has 
brought more balance to its portfolio over time 
between commercial and defence markets. 38% 
of the Group’s revenue in 2015 was derived from 
commercial markets, with 36% coming from US 
defence and 26% from non-US defence markets. 
The Group favours businesses with technology that 
can be applied to both commercial and defence 
markets, allowing it to benefit from growth in both.
Our Sectors
Cobham has four Sectors, each with differentiated 
technology and know-how, having leading market 
positions in markets with long term growth 
characteristics. The Sectors’ focus is on leading edge 
technologies at the subsystem and component level. 
The specialist Aviation Services Sector benefits from 
multi-year contracts which bring additional visibility 
and a long term underpinning to profitability.
Revenue
£772m
(2014: £697m)
Trading profit
£108m
(2014: £118m)
 
See page 18 for more information.
Communications and Connectivity 
Provides aircraft and in-building communication 
equipment; satellite communication equipment 
for land, sea and air applications; and test and 
measurement instrumentation for radio frequency, 
cellular communications and wireless networking.
Operating locations
United States, United Kingdom, Denmark, France, 
South Africa, Finland and Sweden.
Sector percentages for revenue and trading profit exclude head office 
results and eliminations: see note 3 on page 89.
£2,072m
Mission Systems 
Provides safety and survival systems for extreme 
environments, nose-to-tail aerial refuelling systems 
and wing-tip to wing-tip mission systems for fast 
jets, transport aircraft and rotorcraft. It also provides 
remote controlled robots for bomb disposal.
Operating locations
United Kingdom, United States and Germany.
£332m
Revenue
£382m
(2014: £334m)
Trading profit
£68m
(2014: £36m)
 
See page 20 for more information.
COBHAM HAS AN INCREASINGL Y BALANCED 
PORTFOLIO, WITH EXPOSURE TO COMMERCIAL
MARKETS WHICH ARE UNDERPINNED BY
LONG TERM GROWTH CHARACTERISTICS
Trading profit by Sector (%)
Aviation Services
18%
Advanced 
Electronic
Solutions
26%
Communications &
Connectivity  34%
Mission Systems
 22%
Revenue by Sector (%)
Aviation Services
19%
Advanced 
Electronic
Solutions
26%
Communications &
Connectivity  37%
Mission Systems
 18% www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
3
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
 
 
Aviation Services 
Delivers outsourced aviation services for military and 
commercial customers worldwide through military 
training, special mission flight operations, outsourced 
commercial aviation, fly-in fly-out services to the 
natural resources industry and aircraft engineering.
Operating locations
Australia and United Kingdom.
Revenue
£390m
(2014: £412m)
Trading profit
£57 m
(2014: £55m)
 
See page 24 for more information.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
Employees worldwide*
11,505
(2014: 12,707) 
*  Total permanent headcount  
 at the year end.
Revenue
£538m
(2014: £410m)
Trading profit
£81 m
(2014: £64m)
 
See page 22 for more information.
Advanced Electronic Solutions 
Provides critical solutions for communication 
on land, at sea, in the air and in space, through 
off-the-shelf and customised products including 
radio frequency, microwave, and high reliability 
microelectronics, antenna subsystems and motion 
control solutions. This incorporates defence, wireless/
mobile and fixed broadband, X-ray imaging, medical 
and industrial markets.
Operating locations
United States and Mexico.
Markets (% of revenue)
Commercial
38%
US defence/security
36%
Non-US defence/
security
 26%
Geography (% of revenue)
ROW  5% USA  47%
Asia  11%
UK  11%
Other EU  15%
Australia  11% 5 4
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
Following the 2014 acquisition of Aeroflex for 
some US$1.5bn, our focus has been on integrating 
the former Aeroflex businesses, streamlining 
and simplifying the portfolio, and continuing to 
embed a continuous improvement culture in the 
business. These actions, together with our focus 
on technology and customers, position the Group 
to deliver growth and generate cash. 
This year, we have seen signs of stabilisation and, 
in some regions, improvement in our defence 
and security markets, which have been through 
a periodic downcycle. The new bipartisan budget 
agreement in the US covering 2016 and 2017, which 
includes an increase to the investment accounts, has 
underpinned this, even though there is a continuing 
time lag between budgetary approval and outlays, 
or the spending of the budget. Elsewhere, there is 
evidence of modest increases in some European 
defence/security budgets, with growth continuing 
in Asia-Pacific and in Middle East markets. 
However, we have encountered unexpected 
headwinds in some of our commercial markets 
primarily as a result of slowing growth in Asia-Pacific 
and the impact of the reduction in the price of oil 
and gas. The Board believes that the fundamental, 
long term macro growth drivers in these markets, 
for which our technology is well positioned, 
remain unchanged.
It is these unexpected headwinds which have 
held back Group revenue growth during the year, 
with Cobham posting a slight organic revenue 
decline overall. Further, the headwinds have masked 
the solid progress that we have made to improve the 
business. This has included our increased investment 
to grow our pipeline of new and improved products 
and services. In addition, there has been very good 
progress on our major aerial refuelling development 
programmes. Although challenges remain as we 
move through the critical flight test phase on the 
US KC-46 tanker programme during 2016, we have 
made progress including the first successful transfer 
of fuel to a US Navy aircraft in early February 2016. 
Our progress here is, in part, testament to the 
ongoing commitment to increasing critical skills 
and capabilities in the business and to embedding 
a continuous improvement culture. This targets 
enhancements to our engineering skills as well 
as ongoing improvements to key operational and 
customer delivery metrics including on time delivery, 
quality and also supplier performance, which are 
all critical to the ongoing health of the business.
We are extremely encouraged by the excellent 
progress made in integrating the former Aeroflex 
businesses into the Group. Integration is now 
expected to be complete by the end of 2017 with 
costs and benefits in line with original expectations. 
In addition, we have streamlined and simplified 
the Group’s portfolio by exiting certain markets 
and technologies, allowing us to focus on our 
core capabilities. This has reduced complexity and 
enables us to concentrate our investment in markets 
with the most attractive long term potential. 
COBHAM IS NOW MUCH 
MORE COHESIVE WITH 
STRONGER POSITIONS 
FROM WHICH TO GROW
Growth in full  
year dividend
5%
(2014: 10%)
Full year dividend
11. 18p
(2014: 10.65p)
“ Our focus in 201 5 has 
been on integrating 
Aeroflex, streamlining 
the portfolio, embedding 
continuous improvement 
and positioning the 
Group to generate 
growth and cash.” 5 4
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
These divestments have contributed to Cobham’s 
cash generation in the year and we ended the 
year with lower net debt, despite unhelpful year 
end translation rates, as the Group’s debt is primarily 
denominated in foreign currencies. Operating cash 
generation and free cash flow remain areas of 
increased focus for the Group in 2016.
When I look back at the considerable progress 
made over the past few years, Cobham is now 
a much more cohesive entity with stronger and 
more focused positions from which to grow in 
its markets. It has strengthened its leading market 
positions through selected acquisitions and judicious 
technology investments and it has exited weaker 
market positions by divesting some of its more 
peripheral activities. It has a greater balance in 
revenue from its main markets with more scale in 
attractive commercial segments. It has a redesigned 
organisation and management structure which has 
closely aligned management and reporting lines with 
the drive to deliver revenue growth. It has reduced 
its fixed cost base, with some of the efficiencies 
generated being used to increase investment in the 
business. It continues to transform its operational 
performance and customer delivery, to enable it to 
meet and exceed customer expectations and grow 
market share over time. 
In addition, there has been an increase in our focus 
on risk management processes, on ethics and on 
employee satisfaction, with Cobham’s ongoing 
Group-wide employee engagement and initiative 
feedback programme expected to include former 
Aeroflex employees for the first time during 2016.
The Board
We announced in January 2016 that Simon Nicholls, 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO), will be leaving Cobham 
to become CFO at Wolseley plc. The search to 
replace him is underway and, to ensure a smooth 
transition, Simon will remain in place until his 
successor has been identified.
We have also welcomed Alan Semple to the Board 
as a Non-executive Director in February 2015. 
Alan was previously CFO at John Wood Group plc. 
He subsequently became Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in April 2015, replacing Mike Wareing, 
who remains a member of the Committee.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 
2015 of 8.13p (2014: 7.746p). This, together with 
the interim dividend of 3.05p (2014: 2.904p), will 
result in a total dividend per share for 2015 of 
11.18p (2014: 10.65p), an increase of 5%.
This increase is consistent with the Group’s policy, 
which I first set out in the 2014 Annual Report 
and Accounts, of growing the dividend so that it 
is broadly aligned with underlying earnings growth, 
while rebuilding dividend cover over time. The Board 
continues to consider that this approach will give 
the Group the flexibility to invest to drive growth 
and maximise shareholder returns.
The Board is mindful that Cobham has a long 
track record of dividend growth, this being the 
45
th
 consecutive year in which the full year dividend 
has been increased, and it remains committed to 
a progressive dividend policy. 
Conclusion
We have continued to make excellent progress 
on the delivery of our strategic objectives during the 
year, including excellent progress with the integration 
of the Aeroflex business. In addition, we have exited 
certain markets and technologies, allowing us to 
focus on our core capabilities, and in so doing we 
have reduced our risk profile.
The Board remains confident that the continued 
investment in technology and know-how will enable 
us to maintain our leading positions in markets with 
good prospects, leaving Cobham well placed to 
deliver growth over the medium term.
John Devaney
Chairman
2 March 2016
 
 See page 28 for more information.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
13% CAGR over ten years in dividend (pence)
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
3.75
4.50
4.96
5.45
6.00
8.00
8.80
9.68
10.65
11.18 7 6
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
What We Do
CONTINUALL Y INVESTING IN OUR
TECHNOLOGY AND KNOW-HOW IS
KEY TO THE SUCCESS OF THE GROUP
Investing in skills and expertise 
Being able to recruit and develop employees 
with the appropriate level of skills and expertise 
is a key component underpinning Cobham’s 
delivery of shareholder value over the longer term. 
At the end≈of 2015, Cobham employed 4% of 
its UK workforce as apprentices, graduates and 
undergraduate placements and is on track to 
meet its 5% commitment by 2019.
 
See page 39 for more information.
Our business model 
Our business model combines our longstanding 
customer relationships with a deep understanding 
of customer needs. It includes understanding 
how to nurture and sustainably grow businesses 
with specialist technologies, while continuously 
improving our operational performance. We also 
have a focus on ethics, safety and developing 
and enhancing the critical skills and capabilities 
of our employees.
The success of our model is also dependent on the 
rigour we apply to our risk management processes. 
We have clearly defined risk identification and 
mitigation processes in place and an established risk 
appetite through which risks can be managed with 
appropriate controls and assurance measures.
 
See pages 32 to 37 for more information.
1.  Leading positions in our markets
Cobham primarily designs and assembles subsystems 
and components and, as such, operates principally at 
Tier 3 and 4 of its chosen markets, with some limited 
participation at the Tier 2 level. The Group does not 
participate at the Tier 1 level, which includes the 
manufacture and integration of complete aircraft 
platforms, ships, missiles, medical and industrial 
equipment, and satellites. 
The Group’s leading market positions and its 
ongoing programme of investment combine to 
create effective barriers to entry in its markets, 
while optimising financial returns.
The chart below summarises the tier structure of 
our markets, including a small number of examples 
of products which demonstrate Cobham’s 
participation in each.
Cobham in action
Cobham Semiconductor Solutions supplies 
application specific integrated circuits for CT 
(or computerised tomography), digital X-ray 
and ultrasound scanners, which are specifically 
designed for use in high radiation environments. 
The specialised microelectronic solutions offered 
by Cobham enjoy strong market positions, being 
supplied to four of the top five global medical 
equipment manufacturers.
Understanding
and response to
customer needs
 
 
Highest ethical
standards
page 38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safe working
environment
page 39
Talented
and engaged
employees
page 39
Managing
environmental impacts
page 40
       1. Leading market positions                           2. Investment in technology
    4. Operational excellence 
                3. Leveraging into new markets
1
2
Platforms / Fully Integrated Systems
– Cobham does not participate here
Major subsystems – significant and 
recognisable parts of a platform or programme
– Aerial refuelling systems
- – Electronic warfare (jamming) pods
– SATCOM consoles 
3
4
Components – the smallest 
identifiable parts of a subsystem
– Small electronic components 
such as diodes, capacitors, limiters, filters
–  Static dischargers
 – Actuation components 
for parachute releases 
Tier
Smaller subsystems – comprise 
a number of components
– Avionics products
– Antennas
– Integrated microwave assemblies for radar 
or jamming systems
– Power distribution modules for satellites 7 6
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Graduates and apprentices 
recruited since 2010
213
(2014: 172)
Graduates and apprentices in 
Cobham’s UK workforce
4%
(2014: 3%)
Trading margin
16.0%
(2014: 15.5%)
Free cash flow (after restructuring)
£106m
(2014: £114m)
Financial characteristics
The financial characteristics of the business have 
remained essentially unchanged over a long period 
of time. Differentiated technology and leading 
market positions in specialist markets have enabled 
the business to deliver strong trading margins. 
This, combined with its relatively low capital intensity, 
has enabled the business to generate good levels 
of free cash flow over time. More information on 
the financial characteristics of the business is set 
out on page 9. 
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
 
 
 
See pages 14 to 17 for information on our strategy  
and key performance indicators.
2.  Investment in high value, leading 
edge technology and know-how
Cobham’s success is dependent on it bringing to 
market new and improved products and services, 
with a focus on markets with positive, long term 
macro trends, favouring products and services which 
have application across a number of markets. Making 
targeted investments across its leading technologies 
is therefore crucial to delivering increasing revenue. 
During the year, the Group invested £138m (2014: 
£97m) in Private Venture (PV or company funded 
R&D – Research and Development), including a full 
year contribution from Aeroflex. This represents 
8.2% of revenue (2014: 6.7%). The Group has aligned 
this spending with developing products and services 
in growing markets including avionics, SA TCOM, 
wireless and microelectronics.
PV investment
£138m
(2014: £97m)
Total R&D investment
£258m
(2014: £198m)
Cobham in action
In 2015, Cobham introduced its new electric 
propulsion xenon regulator and latch valve for 
satellites. These products, which were developed 
using company funding, allow commercial satellites 
to reach orbit in reduced time and to remain 
active for longer periods, so helping customers 
maximise their satellite investment. This, along 
with the Cobham products’ lower weight and its 
other operational cost savings, position the Group 
to benefit from the increasing number of satellite 
launches expected over the coming years.
3.  Leveraging existing technology 
products and services into  
new markets
An advantage of operating at the component 
and subsystem level is that Cobham’s leading 
edge technology will often have applications in 
different end markets. This enables the Group to 
serve a diverse customer base and deliver growth 
through economic cycles, as it is not dependent 
on demand in one specific market, helping shift 
the focus of its portfolio over time. Each one 
of Cobham’s Sectors now has commercial and  
defence/security market exposure.
Revenue from commercial markets
38%
(2014: 39%)
Cobham in action
Cobham is a leader in defence markets for fuel 
tank inerting technology, which reduces the risk 
of combustion of flammable material in aircraft 
fuel tanks, so improving safety. Cobham has invested 
to develop this life saving defence technology 
for application in commercial markets and has 
gained a significant position in commercial aircraft 
production, being on the Boeing 787 wide-body 
aircraft. It is also on the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet, 
which completed its maiden development flight in 
2015. In addition to new build opportunities, it is 
gaining traction in retrofit markets, with a significant 
new award won from an airline during the year on 
the Boeing 737NG.
4.  Programme management and 
continuous improvement
Cobham’s continuing success is dependent on 
its ability to deliver products and services to its 
customers on time, on budget and to the required 
specification. The Group’s leading edge technologies 
are critical to its customers and these need to be 
combined with industry leading quality and on 
time delivery. 
The Group’s programme management capabilities – 
critical for the successful design, testing and delivery 
of new and improved products on time, on cost and 
to specification – are a particular focus. Success here 
will enable it to grow market share and optimise its 
investment in technology by being the supplier of 
choice for its customers.
The Group also delivers year-on-year improvements 
to its operational execution and production processes, 
to keep ahead of the competition and deliver lower 
prices for its customers, while maintaining its trading 
margins. It achieves this through implementing a 
culture of continuous improvement (CI), underpinned 
by a well established suite of best practice processes 
called the Cobham Standard Operating Framework. 
Operational performance is monitored and managed 
using a well defined set of performance metrics.
Number of CI professionals within 
Cobham’s businesses
40
(2014: 20)
Cobham in action
During the year, Cobham doubled the number 
of its CI professionals, drawing on internal experts 
as well as recruiting experienced individuals with 
best practice backgrounds from outside the 
business. These professionals, with a range of 
deep subject matter expertise, are key catalysts 
in the drive to deliver business benefits including 
cost saving initiatives, increased cash generation 
and improvements to customer delivery. 9 8
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Our Capabilities
COBHAM IS FOCUSED ON A FEW
SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES 
3.  Nose-to-tail aerial 
refuelling systems
Mission Systems With over 80 years’ experience, 
Cobham is the most technically 
advanced supplier of aerial 
refuelling systems in the world. 
Cobham has delivered more than 
2,000 aerial refuelling systems to 
defence customers worldwide.
2.  Pneumatic and  
actuation systems
Mission Systems Cobham’s market leading safety 
and survival systems increase 
mission effectiveness and the 
survivability of people and assets 
by leveraging specialist technology 
expertise in actuation, pure oxygen, 
gas management, water sensing, and 
restraint and release applications.
4.  Military and commercial 
outsourced  
aviation services
Aviation Services Cobham delivers specialist 
outsourced aviation services 
for military and commercial 
customers worldwide through 
military training, special mission 
flight operations, outsourced 
airline services, fly-in fly-out 
services and aircraft engineering.
1 .  C o m m u n ic a t io n 
products for sending  
and receiving voice,  
data and video signals
Proportion of Group Revenue:
Participating 
Sectors: Our key capabilities:
Communications  
& Connectivity
Advanced Electronic 
Solutions
Cobham is a leading supplier 
of communications products 
for commercial and defence 
customers where there is a need 
to communicate on the move and 
in demanding or harsh environments 
including on aircraft, in space and 
at sea. It also offers a range of high 
end test and measurement products 
for wireless markets.
Cobham has a portfolio of leading edge technologies 
and capabilities which are focused on a small number 
of specialist areas where it has an in-depth expertise 
and longstanding customer relationships.
Image courtesy of Airbus
63%
11%
7%
19% 9 8
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
–  T op and bottom line growth over the long term  
Building and maintaining leading market positions, through leveraging 
innovative technology and customer insights, will enable the Group to 
deliver sustainable top and bottom line growth.
 
See pages 15 to 16 for more information.
– T rading margins 
The Group’s leading positions in specialist markets with hard-to-replicate 
intellectual property contributes to its strong trading margins.
 
See page 27 for more information.
–  Cash conversion  
The Group’s trading margin characteristics combined with its relatively low 
capital intensity results in its consistent, good cash conversion potential. 
The Group has a threshold for 80% operating cash conversion in any year.
 
See page 28 for more information.
OUR LEADING CAPABILITIES 
RESUL T IN DIFFERENTIA TED 
SUBSYSTEMS AND COMPONENTS
WHICH T ARGET THESE RESUL TS 
Underlying EPS
19.5p
(2014: 18.5p)
Cash conversion
71 %
(2014: 73%)
  Key performance indicator used by management.
–  Growth prospects
Cobham is focused on end markets with long term growth prospects, in 
particular driven by an increasing demand for mobile communication and 
increased global demand for air travel.
–  Leading market positions 
Cobham has leading positions in high-tech specialist markets with a particular 
focus on connectivity, where it designs and assembles subsystems and 
components. There are significant barriers to entry when these leading 
positions are combined with its ongoing investment to continually improve and 
refresh its capabilities. This enables it to maintain its competitive differentiation.
–  Balanced market exposure
Cobham has significant exposure to global commercial and defence/security 
markets, positioning it to grow through cycles. The Group aims to leverage its 
technology across these markets as demand dictates.
Cobham favours technologies 
which have applications in 
different markets, as this enables 
the Group to maximise its return 
on investment and to grow  
through economic cycles.
Emerging
Medical Industrial
Core
Space
Cobham’s high reliability 
electronics, which are designed 
to operate in environments 
where there are high levels 
of radiation such as space, 
are now being used in medical 
applications, including digital 
X-ray and CT scanners. New 
industrial markets are also 
being accessed including 
airport security and data 
centre applications.
Leveraging our technology and know-how
Growth
Our investment attributes:
–  Return on invested capital  
Organic revenue growth, a strong trading margin and effective asset utilisation 
contribute to a return on invested capital which is greater than the Group’s 
estimated weighted average cost of capital.
 
See page 15 for more information.
–  P r o g r e s s iv e d ivi d e n d  
Cobham’s objective is to pay a progressive dividend and it has a long track 
record of dividend growth spanning 45 consecutive years.
 
See page 5 for more information.
–   Broad programme participation
The Group supports a wide range of programmes across air, land, sea and 
space domains, so reducing the risk from any single platform or programme. 
This broad participation presents opportunities for cross-selling, which helps grow 
the business and increases the financial returns on its technology investment.
–   O p er a t i o n a l e x c e l l en c e 
Cobham has embedded a continuous improvement philosophy with a focus 
on leading edge production techniques, improving customer delivery metrics 
and driving efficiency in its production planning, supply chain and engineering 
functions. This positions the Group as an efficient, cost effective provider, 
enhancing its ability to increase market share over time. 11 10
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Our Markets
Commercial
38%
(2014: 39%)
US defence/security
36%
(2014: 34%)
Non-US defence/security
26%
(2014: 27%)
TECHNOLOGIES AND KNOW-HOW THA T ARE
USED IN GLOBAL COMMERCIAL, AND DEFENCE
AND SECURITY MARKETS, WITH AN EMPHASIS
ON CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS
The desire to communicate more 
is a positive long term trend 
Cobham’s markets are driven by a small number of 
long term macro growth trends which underpin its 
financial performance. Foremost among these is 
the desire on the part of the global population for an 
ever increasing and enhanced ability to communicate. 
Put simply, people want to be able to communicate 
no matter where they are and what they are doing. 
This demand encompasses video, data and voice 
communication. This trend is driven by increased 
urbanisation, a growing middle class and long term 
global economic growth. 
Global mobile data traffic is expected to grow 
significantly. T o deliver this growth, there is a 
constant focus on new technology, innovation and 
the optimisation of equipment, as well as network 
performance. Cobham makes specialist products for 
the mobile communication market, with a particular 
emphasis on communication in harsh or difficult 
environments. The technology challenges which this 
represents is well aligned to Cobham’s strategy and 
its high-end technology.
Cobham also maintains leading positions in specialist 
aviation services markets, principally in Australia, and 
in aerospace markets, where it supplies differentiated 
products for a range of aircraft including large transport 
jets, regional jets, business jets and helicopters. 
Cobham’s focus is again on communication related 
products in these markets, which are driven by the 
growing demand for air travel, with the production 
of new aircraft continuing to increase.
Our response
The growth attributes of these communication 
markets are attractive to Cobham and it has aligned 
its technology investment to take advantage of 
them. Cobham’s commercially focused connectivity 
businesses, such as its SA TCOM and Wireless business 
units, invest a double digit percentage of their revenue 
annually in developing new and improved products, 
to meet customers’ evolving technology requirements.
Furthermore, Cobham has invested to acquire 
companies which are primarily focused on 
commercial connectivity markets. These fit Cobham’s 
strategic imperatives and include having leading 
positions in long term growth markets, with the ability 
to discriminate its product offering based on real 
technology differentiation. In doing this, Cobham 
has reinforced its market positions and brought more 
balance to its market exposures.
The US defence market is nearing 
the end of a prolonged downturn
US defence spending on procurement, and research, 
development, testing and evaluation (RDT&E) has 
fallen significantly in recent years, principally due to 
the withdrawal of troops from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The decline in investment spending is beginning 
to stabilise.
Since the start of the downturn, the US Government 
has consistently stated that it is refocusing its 
investment spending on a ‘Pivot to Asia’ strategy. 
In its June 2015 document, ‘The National Military 
Strategy of the United States of America’, 
the investment priorities include enhancing 
Global monthly mobile data traffic (exabytes*)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
5.3
8.4
12.7
19.2
27.7
*1 Exabyte = 10
18
 bytes
Procurement RDT&E
US DoD budget (US$bn)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
63
71
66
63
63
92
111
102
107
113
Source: US Department of Defense (DoD) Future 
Years Defense Program.
Source: Ericsson Mobility Report Nov 2015
* One exabyte equals one billion gigabytes. 11 10
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
communications, networked intelligence, and the 
swift and decisive projection of force around the 
world. These priorities are aligned to the Group’s 
differentiated communication related technologies, 
with its components and subsystems having a variety 
of applications including for electronic warfare, radar, 
missile guidance systems, and satellite actuation 
and power distribution modules. Cobham also has 
leading positions in aerial refuelling, and pneumatic 
and actuation products primarily for aircraft platforms. 
Many of these platforms are key to the achievement 
of the customers’ strategic priorities.
Our response
Cobham considers that its defence/security capabilities 
are well aligned with current US Government strategic 
priorities and the Group has increased investment in 
developing new and improved products to position 
Cobham on the significant, multi-year opportunities 
which are being awarded. 
As a result of this investment, the Group has 
succeeded in securing good positions on priority 
platforms such as the KC-46 aerial refuelling tanker and 
the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, as well as on important 
upgrade programmes including next generation 
radar, ballistic missile defence and electronic warfare 
programmes. Many of these are expected to benefit 
from increased funding over the coming years. 
However, it is expected that there will be a two-way 
impact in this market as there will be reduced funding 
for legacy positions, as these are wound down to 
support the increased investment in next generation 
platforms and programmes. The Group continues 
to believe that, over the coming years, the ability to 
grow in this market will be determined by company 
positioning on key programmes and platforms.
“ We have focused on 
bringing more balance 
to the portfolio between 
our commercial and 
defence markets.”
Specialist Aviation 
Services
Aerospace
Marine SA TCOM
Wireless
Space
Our commercial 
markets include
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
Demand conditions in non-US 
defence/security markets continue 
to improve
Demand conditions in non-US defence/security 
markets have continued to improve. In particular, 
there is a good level of demand in Asia-Pacific and in 
the Middle East, where there are heightened regional 
security tensions and local conflicts. The Group has 
continued to benefit from these market conditions, 
including orders from a number of different countries 
for missile control subsystems on high volume  
air-to-ground missiles and laser guided munitions. 
In Europe, some countries have started to increase 
their defence budgets modestly in response to 
heightened security threats. However, budgetary 
increases are not being applied throughout the region 
and overall public deficits and indebtedness remains 
high. This is likely to continue to hold back growth 
in defence/security investment.
Our response
Cobham aims to leverage its technologies and 
capabilities into accessible markets worldwide outside 
of the US, either by benefiting from export orders 
won by its US and non-US defence/security customers 
or by direct sales to the end customer, as its critical 
subsystems and components are used globally on 
a diverse range of platforms and programmes. 
It has also won and operates significant aviation 
services contracts around the world, including for 
governments in the UK, Australia, the Middle East, 
the Caribbean and Asia.
 
Medium term global defence expenditure 
growth estimates
MENA*
3%
Latin America
1%
1%
1%
Asia-Pacific
Africa
Europe
-2% 1%
6%
4%
3%
3%
* MENA – Middle East and North Africa, excluding 
inaccessible countries. 
Sources: Cobham analysis, SIPRI, IMF, Strategic 
Defence Intelligence. 13 12
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Strategy and progress overview
We have continued to progress our strategy of 
creating value for our shareholders by building 
and maintaining leading positions in our chosen 
markets through leveraging our innovative 
technology and know-how with a deep insight 
into our customers’ needs. 
We now have more balance in the portfolio 
between our defence/security revenue, with the 
portfolio focused in areas of customer priority in our 
chosen segments, and commercial revenue, where 
we are focused on markets that are underpinned by 
favourable, long term macroeconomic trends. This 
includes an ever increasing demand for enhanced 
communication, which is a positive market trend 
over the long term. We favour businesses with an 
ability to leverage differentiated technology into 
commercial and defence/security markets and all 
our Sectors now have a presence in both of these 
broad markets. We have five strategic actions and are 
measuring progress against them, as set out below.
1. Understanding customer needs and 
developing customer relationships
We continue to focus on opportunities to improve 
customer satisfaction and to anticipate future 
requirements. We have undertaken a comprehensive 
survey of our largest customers, which identified 
opportunities to deepen key relationships and to 
underpin our position as a preferred supplier of high 
quality products and services. Increasing emphasis 
on customer engagement has led to regular contact 
with key customers on market developments, 
new business opportunities and ideas for next 
generation products and technologies. As a result, 
we are identifying targeted PV investment to further 
grow our market share. 
2. Improving operational performance
We have continued to make good progress 
with our continuous improvement activities. 
This progress is reflected in improvements over 
the past five years to key operational metrics such 
as on time delivery, supplier defective parts per 
million and supplier on time delivery. The positive 
trend has continued during the year, culminating 
in operational performance levels not previously 
achieved by the Group. These continuous 
improvement activities are also vital to delivering 
lower inventory and working capital levels in the 
future and, despite the increase in 2015, we are 
seeing encouraging progress in a number of areas.
We have successfully completed the initial 
implementation of our new Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) IT system at the pilot manufacturing 
location, with the system fully operational at the 
site. The ERP system will be progressively rolled out 
across our other operating locations over the next 
three years.
THERE IS NOW MORE BALANCE
IN THE PORTFOLIO AND WE 
ARE FOCUSED ON MARKETS 
WHICH ARE UNDERPINNED 
BY F A VOURABLE LONG 
TERM TRENDS
“ We have continued to 
invest in the business; in 
particular in technology, 
skills and capabilities, and 
in our infrastructure.”
Aeroflex efficiencies 
achieved
US$37 m
(2014: US$5m)
PV investment
8.2%
(2014: 6.7%) 13 12
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
3. Investing in and applying discriminating 
technology
We have continued to invest in technology to drive 
growth. Company funded PV investment increased 
significantly to £138m (2014: £97m), primarily 
reflecting the full year impact of Aeroflex. This 
investment represents some 8.2% (2014: 6.7%) of 
revenue. We have continued to align this spending 
with developing differentiated products and services 
in growing markets, including for avionics, SA TCOM, 
wireless and microelectronics applications. 
Specific examples of our technology investments 
in 2015 include:
 − Cobham SATCOM achieved the first voice 
call over Inmarsat’s SwiftBroadband aviation 
communication service using its new 
AVIATOR 200S compact unit. This unit is the 
first of several solutions that will be available 
to airlines in anticipation of the new generation 
SwiftBroadband Safety service in 2016;
 − Cobham Wireless launched a new TeraVM 
cyber security threat analysis solution that 
assesses infrastructure defences by replicating 
real-life incidents, including denial of service 
and database related injection attacks; 
 − Initial orders were received for the Mission 
Systems Sector’s new lightweight polymer 
lined, high pressure gas storage vessels. This 
technology, developed utilising experience 
gained in military and space applications, is 
being targeted at commercial industrial markets, 
including compressed natural gas vehicles. It 
offers customers superior fuel preservation 
and improved safety;
 − The Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector 
continues to align its investments to US  
defence/security priorities specifically in 
radio frequency technology differentiation. 
Additionally, it continues to invest in  
high-reliability electronics for commercial 
space, medical and industrial applications.
In addition to company funded PV, customer 
funded research and development (R&D) was 
£120m (2014: £101m), primarily relating to aerial 
refuelling development programmes. We have 
continued to make encouraging progress, with the 
Airbus A400M entering low rate initial production 
at the end of the year. Also, the KC-46 entered 
its flight test phase at the end of the third quarter 
2015, with free air stability testing and receiver 
contact trials undertaken. This was followed by the 
successful transfer of fuel to a US Navy F/A-18 in 
February 2016. It is expected that the rate of R&D 
investment in these programmes will moderate in 
2016, as we move from development into low rate 
initial production.
4. Allocating capital to be aligned with 
growing markets
Following on from our September 2014 Aeroflex 
acquisition, we have made excellent progress 
integrating this business, achieving some £25m 
(US$37m) of year-on-year efficiencies in 2015. 
The efficiencies have been achieved through a 
combination of site integration activity, reduced 
Aeroflex head office costs, and direct and indirect 
supply chain benefits for the combined Group. 
Business restructuring costs incurred in the year, 
primarily relating to the Aeroflex integration, were £67m.
We anticipate that this progress will continue, 
resulting in the Aeroflex integration programme 
being complete by the end of 2017, with the 
total costs and benefits in line with our original 
expectations. Our expected completion of the 
integration programme ahead of schedule will 
be a major achievement. 
As set out on page 8 in more detail, Cobham is 
focused around four main areas of capability 
which comprise connectivity, pneumatics and 
actuation, aerial refuelling systems, and military and 
commercial specialist outsourced aviation services. 
During the year we have exited certain markets and 
technologies, enabling us to further focus on these 
core capabilities. These divestments comprise:
 − Weinschel and Inmet in June 2015, for US$80m;
 − The Group’s composites businesses in November 
2015, for US$200m;
 − Metelics in December 2015, for US$38m.
In January 2016 we also divested the Surveillance 
business for US$10m. 
Although resulting in earnings dilution, these 
divestments have reduced portfolio complexity, 
helping us to concentrate our investment in markets 
with the most attractive long term potential. 
5. Enhancing the skills and capabilities 
of employees
We have increased our focus on key functional 
capabilities in the year, following the completion of 
the previously reported organisation design project. 
This includes continued activity to enhance our 
project and programme management capabilities, 
which will help ensure that our investments are being 
made effectively and efficiently. There has been a 
rigorous approach to assessing the competencies 
of individuals, complemented by a comprehensive 
training and development programme, which 
has led to a significant increase in the number 
of professional qualifications being achieved. 
This approach is now being extended to all other 
critical functions including engineering, operations 
and supply chain, finance, compliance, contracts, 
and human resources.
Conclusion
This has been another year of significant progress 
against the delivery of our strategic objectives. 
The excellent progress with the integration of the 
former Aeroflex business is a key highlight and we 
have continued to invest in our technology, our 
capabilities, our businesses and our infrastructure 
to underpin the drive for growth. 
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2016
Strategic overview
1. Focus on customers 
2. Improve operational performance
3. Invest in technology
4. Allocate capital for growth
5. Enhance skills and capabilities
 
See pages 16 to 17 for more information.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
37
34
42
36
US defence/security
2013
2014
2012
2015
End markets (% of revenue)
31
35
39
38
Commercial
2012
2013
2014
2015
27
28
27
26
Non-US defence/security
2012
2013
2014
2015
2011
25
2011
48
2011
27 15 14
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators
DELIVERING AGAINST
OUR STRA TEGIC
PRIORITIES ...
We have a clearly defined vision and strategy 
statement. These are underpinned by our strategic 
actions, which give us the focus and direction to 
execute an improving performance. 
Our strategic actions are linked to key performance 
indicators, which are used to monitor the ongoing 
performance and health of the business. To see 
how these indicators are linked to management 
remuneration, see pages 58 to 66.
Of course, how we work and deliver our results is as 
important to us as what we deliver. Our values, and 
the behaviours that underpin them, are fundamental 
to delivering sustainable success from what we do. 
These are the foundations on which everything we 
do is built. The most important thing we build is trust.
Our vision
Working together to be a leading 
global technology and services  
innovator, respected for  
providing solutions to the  
most challenging problems
Our strategy
Build and maintain leading positions in our 
chosen markets by leveraging innovative 
technology and know-how with a deep insight 
into customer needs
Strategic actions
1. Focus on customers, 2. Improve operational performance, 
3. Invest in technology, 4. Allocate capital for growth, 
5. Enhance skills and capabilities
SPIRIT Values 
Safety, Performance, Innovation, Relationships, Integrity,Trust
 
Our strategy drives our technology and  
know-how based business model, see pages 6 to 7.
 
We use best practice enterprise  
risk management, see pages 32 to 37.
 
We understand that corporate responsibility and sustainability (CR&S)  
is a key driver of shareholder value, see more on this and our SPIRIT values on pages 38 to 41. 15 14
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
We believe that the following financial metrics measure the overall strength and performance of the Group. 
They also reflect how effectively the Group has performed against its five strategic actions.
5% 
Target: high single  
digit growth
Underlying EPS was 5% higher than the prior year, 
primarily due to the net impact of acquisitions and 
divestments, and cost efficiencies. At constant 
currency, underlying EPS was up 7% on the prior year. 
Earnings
Shareholder value
11 %
Target: >10%
Return on invested capital was slightly lower than 
the prior year, primarily due to the impact of the 
Aeroflex acquisition which, including cost synergies, 
is expected to beat the Group’s cost of capital in the 
third full year of ownership.
Cash generation
71 % 
Target: >80%
Operating cash conversion was broadly consistent 
with the prior year. This included the impact of 
increased working capital and, as anticipated, 
increased capital expenditure, with Aviation 
Services continuing to invest in its aircraft fleet.
  Key performance indicator used by management.
  Used as a measure for determining executive 
remuneration.
For definitions, see page 132.
 
See pages 26 to 31 for more information on our financial performance.
Underlying EPS (pence)
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
22.1
22.6
21.6
18.5
19.5
Operating cash conversion (%)
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
95
105
85
73
71
Return on invested capital  (%)
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
19
18
15
12
11 17 16
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators continued
Strategic actions
1. Focus on customers 2. Improve operational performance 3. Invest in technology 4. Allocate capital for growth 5. Enhance skills and capabilities
Description
We develop a deep understanding of 
our customers’ needs and we look to 
build close relationships with them.
We seek to drive improvement in our 
operational performance to ensure 
our customers’ needs are being met.
We look to invest in technologies, which 
are innovative, discriminating and which 
align with our technology road maps. 
This will underpin our growth.
We constantly review our market place 
to ensure capital is being allocated to 
achieve sustainable value creation 
through a focus on growing markets.
We enhance the skills and capabilities 
of our employees to create long term 
competitive advantage.
Importance Understanding customer needs and their priorities 
is crucial to developing products and services that 
are relevant to and priorities for the market place.
Delivering products and services in line with 
customer schedules, in line with budget and to the 
agreed performance and quality metrics is essential 
to maintaining and increasing our market share.
Developing products and services which not only 
meet customer needs but which are differentiated 
from other competitive offerings is how we keep 
our existing customers and also how we win new 
customers to grow market share.
Reviewing the market place constantly ensures we 
are focusing our organic and non-organic investment 
in those areas which will deliver the best financial 
returns, by optimising our revenue and profits.
Enhancing the skills and capabilities of our 
employees, through value added learning and 
development, as well as recruiting and developing 
the next generation of skilled employees, is essential 
in a technology led business to delivering the 
promises we have made to our customers. 
Links to principal risks Failure to understand customer demand and market 
environment, see risk 1 on page 35.
Failure to successfully execute continuous 
improvement, see risk 8 on page 37.
Ineffective project and programme execution, 
see risk 5 on page 36. 
Failure to execute strategy, see risk 2 on page 35. Failure to deliver shareholder value from the Aeroflex 
acquisition, see risk 6 on page 36.
Failure to deliver targeted benefits with appropriate 
skills and talent recruited/retained, see risk 4 on 
page 36.
Progress Invested in support of AMSA contract:
4
jet aircraft
Commentary Target: mid-single digit organic revenue growth 
Organic revenue growth declined 1% in the year 
driven by adverse demand conditions in some of our 
commercial markets. This was despite good revenue 
growth in our non-US defence/security markets. 
 
See page 27 for more information on revenue.
Target: 400 Aspiration: 0  
We believe that health and safety is one of a 
number of indicators of operational performance. 
All the Group’s leading indicators on training, risk 
assessment, workplace inspections and near miss 
reporting met their targets.
 
See pages 39 to 40 for more information on staff safety.
Target: 6% 
Company funded PV investment has increased 
again in the year, primarily due to the full year impact 
of Aeroflex. The Group has aligned this investment, 
which it believes to be a primary driver of future 
growth, with developing differentiated products 
and services in growing markets.
 
See page 27 for more information on Group PV investment.
 
Investment and modifications to three of four 
Bombardier Challenger jet aircraft are well underway, 
which will be used to deliver the new 12-year 
AUS$640m contract for the Australian Maritime 
Safety Authority (AMSA). Flying operations are 
expected to commence in 2016. This investment 
will support future organic growth.
 
See pages 24 to 25 for more information.
Target: <10%  
After a number of years of beating the target, 
voluntary employee turnover increased in the year 
and this is attributed to the organisation design 
project which was largely undertaken in the prior 
year. This programme involved changes in role or 
reporting lines for some employees. The higher 
turnover in the year is considered to be a short 
term impact from these changes.
 
See page 39 for more information.
* per 100,000 employees.  Key performance indicator used by management.
  Used as a measure for determining  
executive remuneration.
For definitions, see page 132.
... DRIVES CASH GENERA TION 
AND CREA TES SHAREHOLDER V ALUE 
S
Group revenue  (£m)
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
1.854
1.749
1.790
1.852
2.072
Staff safety - major accident incident rate * 
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
465
586
326
423
269 17 16
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic actions
1. Focus on customers 2. Improve operational performance 3. Invest in technology 4. Allocate capital for growth 5. Enhance skills and capabilities
Description
We develop a deep understanding of 
our customers’ needs and we look to 
build close relationships with them.
We seek to drive improvement in our 
operational performance to ensure 
our customers’ needs are being met.
We look to invest in technologies, which 
are innovative, discriminating and which 
align with our technology road maps. 
This will underpin our growth.
We constantly review our market place 
to ensure capital is being allocated to 
achieve sustainable value creation 
through a focus on growing markets.
We enhance the skills and capabilities 
of our employees to create long term 
competitive advantage.
Importance Understanding customer needs and their priorities 
is crucial to developing products and services that 
are relevant to and priorities for the market place.
Delivering products and services in line with 
customer schedules, in line with budget and to the 
agreed performance and quality metrics is essential 
to maintaining and increasing our market share.
Developing products and services which not only 
meet customer needs but which are differentiated 
from other competitive offerings is how we keep 
our existing customers and also how we win new 
customers to grow market share.
Reviewing the market place constantly ensures we 
are focusing our organic and non-organic investment 
in those areas which will deliver the best financial 
returns, by optimising our revenue and profits.
Enhancing the skills and capabilities of our 
employees, through value added learning and 
development, as well as recruiting and developing 
the next generation of skilled employees, is essential 
in a technology led business to delivering the 
promises we have made to our customers. 
Links to principal risks Failure to understand customer demand and market 
environment, see risk 1 on page 35.
Failure to successfully execute continuous 
improvement, see risk 8 on page 37.
Ineffective project and programme execution, 
see risk 5 on page 36. 
Failure to execute strategy, see risk 2 on page 35. Failure to deliver shareholder value from the Aeroflex 
acquisition, see risk 6 on page 36.
Failure to deliver targeted benefits with appropriate 
skills and talent recruited/retained, see risk 4 on 
page 36.
Progress Invested in support of AMSA contract:
4
jet aircraft
Commentary Target: mid-single digit organic revenue growth 
Organic revenue growth declined 1% in the year 
driven by adverse demand conditions in some of our 
commercial markets. This was despite good revenue 
growth in our non-US defence/security markets. 
 
See page 27 for more information on revenue.
Target: 400 Aspiration: 0  
We believe that health and safety is one of a 
number of indicators of operational performance. 
All the Group’s leading indicators on training, risk 
assessment, workplace inspections and near miss 
reporting met their targets.
 
See pages 39 to 40 for more information on staff safety.
Target: 6% 
Company funded PV investment has increased 
again in the year, primarily due to the full year impact 
of Aeroflex. The Group has aligned this investment, 
which it believes to be a primary driver of future 
growth, with developing differentiated products 
and services in growing markets.
 
See page 27 for more information on Group PV investment.
 
Investment and modifications to three of four 
Bombardier Challenger jet aircraft are well underway, 
which will be used to deliver the new 12-year 
AUS$640m contract for the Australian Maritime 
Safety Authority (AMSA). Flying operations are 
expected to commence in 2016. This investment 
will support future organic growth.
 
See pages 24 to 25 for more information.
Target: <10%  
After a number of years of beating the target, 
voluntary employee turnover increased in the year 
and this is attributed to the organisation design 
project which was largely undertaken in the prior 
year. This programme involved changes in role or 
reporting lines for some employees. The higher 
turnover in the year is considered to be a short 
term impact from these changes.
 
See page 39 for more information.
* excluding Aviation Services.
Group PV investment (% of revenue)*
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
4.9%
5.3%
6.2%
6.7%
8.2%
Voluntary staff turnover (%)
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
8.4%
8.7%
6.9%
6.3%
11.2% 19 18
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Communications and Connectivity
Provides aircraft and in-building communication 
equipment; satellite communication equipment 
for land, sea and air applications; and test and 
measurement instrumentation for radio frequency, 
cellular communications and wireless networking.
Revenue
T otal revenue at constant currency increased by 
£85m due to the contribution from the former 
Aeroflex wireless business, net of the Composites 
divestment. Organic revenue declined by 4%.
The Sector saw good organic revenue growth in its 
defence/security markets including higher retrofit 
and aftermarket revenue for avionics products 
and increased Surveillance shipments. Within its 
commercial markets, there was also strong growth 
in aerospace revenue driven by higher volumes 
of SA TCOM and avionics products. However, this 
was more than offset by significantly lower marine 
SA TCOM revenue due to reduced demand in oil 
and gas, and in commercial shipping markets. There 
was also lower organic revenue in commercial land 
markets impacting in particular wireless products, 
after a strong 2014.
Trading profit
Trading profit was £108m (2014: £113m at 
constant currency) reflecting the impact of the 
reduced volumes in the shorter cycle commercial 
businesses. This was partially offset by the full 
year impact of the Aeroflex acquisition net of the 
Composites divestment and a good contribution 
from efficiencies, including from integration. 
Reflecting the above factors, the Sector’s trading 
margin was 14.0% (2014: 17.0%). 
Other notable events in the year included: 
 − Cobham Wireless deployed the world’s first 
intelligent digital distributed antenna system 
(idDAS) covering Berlin’s Fan Mile, with an 
idDAS order also received for a Swedish 
tunnel programme;
 − Rockwell Collins selected Cobham’s Aviator 200S 
modem for the Chinese COMAC C919 aircraft. 
This secures a future commitment for hundreds 
of shipsets over the life of the aircraft and adds 
to the SA TCOM antenna award already secured 
on this aircraft;
 − Inmarsat has selected Cobham SA TCOM to 
deliver an advanced mobile satellite services 
terminal for its S-band European aviation 
connectivity network. This is part of its 
recently announced European aviation 
network high-speed inflight connectivity 
solution, which it anticipates will enter 
commercial service at the end of 2016; and
 − Cobham Aerospace Communications has 
received an award from Dassault for its Rafale 
fighter aircraft, adding a standard fit intercom 
system with crew alert capability to other 
Cobham products already on this aircraft, 
including antennas and lights.
 
ENABLING RELIABLE 
CONNECTIVITY 
ANYWHERE, ANYTIME
 
Sector revenue (£m) 
697
2014 Acquisitions,
divestments
and currency
translation
Organic
growth
 
772
20 15
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
102 (27)
 
25
50
75
100
125
Sector trading profit (£m) 
118
2014 Acquisitions,
divestments
and currency
translation
Net 
other
 
108
20 15
0
3 (13) 19 18
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Revenue growth
11 %
(2014: 3%)
% of Group revenue
37 %
(2014: 38%)
Cobham SA TCOM’s SAILOR 100 GX antenna, an 
advanced Ka-band system for marine applications, 
provides connectivity to the Inmarsat GX network, the 
first commercial Ka-band global high-speed network.
Main image
Cobham Wireless is a global leader in the provision of 
advanced wireless coverage and mobile communication 
systems. It provides wireless coverage in buildings, 
tunnels, stadiums, metro systems and on trains. It is 
a global provider of network test solutions, to develop 
and test network functions.
Revenue by geography (%) Revenue by geography (%)
UK  9% USA  33%
Asia  18%
ROW  9%
Australia  1%
Other EU  30%
Revenue by market (%)
Maritime/other
45%
US defence/
security 15%
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
21%
Non-US defence/
security  
 19%  
21 20
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Mission Systems
Provides safety and survival systems for extreme 
environments, nose-to-tail aerial refuelling systems 
and wing-tip to wing-tip mission systems for fast 
jets, transport aircraft and rotorcraft. It also provides 
remote controlled robots for bomb disposal.
Revenue
T otal revenue increased by £33m at constant 
currency, with organic revenue increasing by 10%. 
Organic revenue was driven by the commencement 
of a new multi-year C-130 production contract for 
the US Air Force and Marine Corps and higher aerial 
refuelling engineering and development revenue 
on the US KC-46 tanker programme. In addition, 
there was increased revenue from actuation control 
subsystems for air-to-ground missiles and laser 
guided munitions. 
Trading profit
Trading profit was £68m (2014: £39m at constant 
currency) and benefited from the impact of higher 
production volumes and the non-repeat of the £15m 
aerial refuelling provision taken in 2014. Reflecting the 
above factors, the Sector’s trading margin improved 
to 17.8% (2014: 10.8%). 
Building on the organic revenue in the year, 
the Sector has continued to make good 
progress, in particular:
 − Representing a significant milestone, the Boeing 
KC -46 flight test programme commenced in 
September 201 5. Cobham is supporting Boeing 
through the test programme with 18 aircraft to 
be delivered to the US Air Force by August 201 7;
 − Low rate initial production deliveries of the wing 
dispense aerial refuelling equipment commenced 
in October 201 5 for the Airbus A400M final 
assembly line;
 − An initial agreement with a launch customer 
for the new high performance and long life air 
separation module (ASM) for Boeing 737NG 
operators. The ASM is the heart of the safety 
system which delivers inert gas to aircraft fuel 
tanks, so reducing fire risk; and
 − Robust missile actuation orders continued for 
control subsystems on high volume air-to-ground 
missiles and laser guided munitions.
LEADING CAP ABILITIES IN AERIAL
REFUELLING AND SURVIV AL SYSTEMS
FOR EXTREME ENVIRONMENTS
 
100
200
300
400
500
Sector revenue (£m) 
334
2014 Currency
translation
Organic
growth
  
382
20 15
0
15
33
 
25
50
75
Sector trading profit (£m) 
36
2014 Currency
translation
Net 
other
  
68
20 15
0
3
29 21 20
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Cobham’s fuel tank inerting technology, initially 
developed for military aircraft, is gaining traction 
in commercial aviation markets. In 2015, Cobham 
received its first retrofit award from a Boeing 737NG 
operator. The Cobham solution offered is light and 
compact, keeping the aircraft running costs low.
Main image
The Boeing KC-46 tanker aircraft commenced flight  
trials in 2015 and testing will continue through 2016. 
Each KC-46 utilises state of the art Cobham aerial 
refuelling equipment.
179 KC-46 aircraft are currently on order from the 
US Air Force with entry into service planned for 2017.
Revenue growth
15%
(2014: (7)%)
% of Group revenue
18%
(2014: 18%)
Image adapted from Boeing Dreamscape CC 2.0
Revenue by geography (%)
UK  6%
USA  66%
Asia  9%
ROW  2%
Australia  3%
Other EU  14%
Revenue by market (%)
Maritime/other
1%
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
5%
Non-US defence/
security  35%
US defence/
security 59%  
23 22
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Advanced Electronic Solutions
PROVIDING CRITICAL
ELECTRONICS ON LAND, A T SEA, 
IN THE AIR AND IN SP ACE
Provides critical solutions for communication 
on land, at sea, in the air and in space, through 
off-the-shelf and customised products including 
radio frequency, microwave, and high reliability 
microelectronics, antenna subsystems and 
motion control solutions. This incorporates 
defence, wireless/mobile and fixed broadband, 
X-ray imaging, medical, and industrial markets.
Revenue
T otal revenue increased by £96m at constant 
currency largely due to the contribution from 
the former Aeroflex microelectronics business, 
net of divestments. 
Organic revenue growth declined by 7%. This 
included the benefits of increased volumes of 
microelectronic components and subsystems, with 
good growth in missile, electronic warfare and radar 
programme revenue for US and non-US defence/
security customers. However, this was more than 
offset by significantly lower US defence/security 
volumes on some mature production programmes 
and reduced revenue from rotary joints, used on 
radar or microwave communication systems, and 
from wave guide products. 
Trading profit 
Trading profit was £81m (2014: £68m at constant 
currency) including the full year impact of Aeroflex, 
net of divestments, and a good contribution from 
efficiencies relating to the Aeroflex integration. 
The Sector’s trading margin was 15.0% (2014: 
15.6%), impacted by lower mature production 
programme volumes and lower margin programmes 
in development and in low rate initial production. 
Notwithstanding the lower organic 
revenue, the Sector has leading positions in 
its markets and differentiated technologies 
including on several franchise programmes 
that will contribute to future revenue: 
 − Increasing production of the F- 35 Joint 
Strike Fighter on which the Sector has 
significant content;
 − Increasing demand for radio frequency 
electronics, with positions on a number 
of growing missile programmes, including 
the Standard Missile-6 and the Advanced 
Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile; as well as 
the Boeing P-8 Poseidon, an anti-submarine 
warfare aircraft;
 − Further investments to improve ship survivability, 
including increased funding for the Surface 
Electronic Warfare Improvement Program;
 − Continuing strong demand for mixed signal 
application specific integrated circuits for 
medical and industrial applications; and
 − Several important space awards, including on 
the NASA Mars 2020 Rover programme, where 
the Sector provides critical actuators that drive 
the Rover wheels, operates its steering, deploys 
its remote sensing mast and operates two of 
its cameras.
 
100
200
300
400
500
600
Sector revenue (£m) 
410
2014 Acquisitions,
divestments
and currency
translation
Organic
growth
  
538
20 15
0
160 (32)
 
25
50
75
100
Sector trading profit (£m) 
64
2014 Acquisitions,
divestments
and currency
translation
Net 
other
 
81
20 15
0
19 (2) 23 22
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Cobham received an order in the year for the 
production of antenna array panel assemblies used 
in the Block II configuration of the US Navy Surface 
Electronic Warfare Improvement Program, to 
defend against modern missile threats.
Arleigh Burke-class destroyers (pictured) are some of 
the first US Navy ships to receive the upgrade which 
will be rolled out to all major US ship types.
Main image
Cobham Semiconductor Solutions is a world leader 
in the design and manufacture of high-reliability 
integrated circuits, with product offerings for space, 
medical and industrial markets. Its high-tech radiation 
test facility, containing a full suite of specialised test 
equipment, is used to verify microelectronic designs 
for use in extreme environments.
Revenue growth
31 %
(2014: 10%)
% of Group revenue
26%
(2014: 22%)
Revenue by geography (%)
UK  1%
USA  90%
Asia  5%
ROW  1%
Other EU  3%
Revenue by market (%)
Maritime/other
14%
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
3%
Non-US defence/
security  7%
US defence/
security 76%  
25 24
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Aviation Services
DELIVERING SPECIALIST A VIA TION
SERVICES FOR MILIT ARY AND 
COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS
Delivers outsourced aviation services for military and 
commercial customers worldwide through military 
training, special mission flight operations, outsourced 
commercial aviation, fly-in fly-out services to the 
natural resources industry and aircraft engineering.
Revenue
T otal revenue increased by £3m at constant 
currency. Organic revenue was 1% higher, primarily 
due to increased government special mission and 
helicopter services revenue. This included increased 
fixed wing revenue in Australia, partially offset by 
lower operational readiness training activity in the 
Middle East. Revenue from commercial markets was 
broadly flat, although the second half was impacted 
by a deepening of the Australian resource industry 
downturn. There was some increased commercial 
airline services activity with Qantas, reflecting the 
additional aircraft brought into service in the first half 
of 2014, but this was balanced by some change of 
scope in the services provided under the contract. 
Trading profit
Trading profit was £57m (2014: £52m at constant 
currency) with a Sector trading margin of 14.7% 
(2014: 13.2%). This margin improvement is largely 
linked to the extension of some key contracts and 
associated life reassessment.
While the market is quite volatile, Aviation 
Services has continued to achieve successes, 
which should benefit revenue:
 − Mobilisation of an additional two Boeing 71 7s is 
progressing well, ahead of their introduction into 
service with Qantas in early 2016. This will bring 
the total number of aircraft operated by Cobham 
on behalf of this customer to 20;
 − A two-year extension was secured with the UK 
Ministry of Defence to continue services under 
the Defence Helicopter Flying School until the 
end of March 2018;
 − Modifications are well underway for three of 
four aircraft for the 1 2 year AUS$640m AMSA 
contract. Flying operations are scheduled to 
commence in the second half of 2016; and 
 − An agreement was signed with General Atomics 
to create an affiliation covering whole life 
support arrangements, focusing on Predator
® 
and B/MQ-9 Reaper
®
 unmanned systems in 
the UK and in Australia.
 
100
200
300
400
500
Sector revenue (£m) 
412
2014 Currency
translation
Organic
growth
  
390
20 15
0
(25)
3
 
25
50
75
Sector trading profit (£m) 
55
2014 Currency
translation
Net
other
  
57
20 15
0
(3)
5 25 24
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Cobham provides operational readiness training for 
complex and demanding missions for air forces around 
the world, including the Royal Air Force, the Royal Saudi 
Air Force and for NA TO exercises. 
Main image
In 2015, Cobham began the modification of three of 
the four Bombardier Challenger CL-604 aircraft which 
have been purchased to deliver flying operations for the 
AUS$640m AMSA contract. The aircraft are scheduled to 
commence flying operations in the second half of 2016.
Revenue growth
(5)%
(2014: 13%)
% of Group revenue
19%
(2014: 22%)
Revenue by geography (%)
Other EU  2%
Australia  54%
UK  32%
ROW  6%
Asia  6%
Revenue by market (%)
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
44%
Non-US defence/
security  56% 27 26
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Financial Review
Summary of underlying results
£m 2015 2014
Revenue 2,072 1,852 
Trading profit 332 287 
Trading margin 16.0% 15.5%
Underlying net finance expense (52) (30)
Underlying profit before tax 280 257 
Underlying tax (60) (52)
Underlying tax rate 21.5% 20.3%
Underlying profit after tax 220 205 
Weighted average number  
of shares (millions)
1,130 1,108 
Underlying EPS (pence) 19.5 18.5 
Total Group revenue increased by 12% to £2,072m, 
primarily driven by the 2014 acquisition of Aeroflex, 
net of divestments. There was a net benefit from 
foreign currency translation, with organic revenue 
declining by 1%.
The Group’s trading profit was £332m (2014: £287m),  
an increase of £45m, including a full year contribution 
of £23m from acquisitions net of divestments.
This result also included the positive impact from 
efficiency savings, Aeroflex integration benefits 
and the non-repeat of the £15m aerial refuelling 
provision taken in 2014. There was a partial offset 
to this from the adverse impact of lower shorter 
cycle commercial volumes and the adverse revenue 
mix in the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector. 
The trading margin increased to 16.0% (2014: 15.5%).
Total R&D investment was higher at £258m (2014: 
£198m). This included the full year impact on PV 
from Aeroflex and higher customer funded R&D 
investment primarily relating to aerial refuelling 
development programmes. 
Underlying EPS was 19.5p (2014: 18.5p), an increase 
of 5% on the prior year. The primary drivers of this 
increase were the net impact of acquisitions and 
divestments, and efficiencies, partially offset by the 
dilutive impact of the May 2014 share placing and 
adverse foreign currency translation. At constant 
currency, underlying EPS was up 7% on the prior year. 
Operating cash flow, which is stated after net capital 
expenditure but before interest and tax payments, 
increased to £235m (2014: £208m). Operating cash 
conversion was broadly consistent with the prior year 
at 71% (2014: 73%). This included increased working 
capital of £49m and, as anticipated, increased capital 
expenditure, which was £24m higher, with the 
largest increase being within the Aviation Services 
Sector. The increased capital expenditure reflected 
continuing investment in the aircraft fleet as a result 
of winning multi-year awards in 2014. 
Free cash flow was £106m (2014: £114m), after 
restructuring payments of £48m primarily relating 
to the Aeroflex integration (2014: £32m – Excellence 
in Delivery and Aeroflex integration). Also included 
within free cash flow were interest payments of 
£49m (2014: £25m), which included the full year 
impact of the Aeroflex acquisition debt.
At the year end, the Group’s net debt had 
decreased to £1,207m (2014: £1,223m) with 
the net debt/EBITDA ratio at 2.9x.
Orders
Group order intake was up 13% at £2,148m 
(2014: £1,908m). Excluding the full year impact 
of the Aeroflex acquisition and the impact of 
divestments, order intake on a like-for-like basis 
was 2% higher. Order intake benefited from the 
receipt of some significant orders in the Advanced 
Electronic Solutions Sector and the Mission Systems 
Sector for subsystems and components for a 
number of multi-year missile programmes. 
ENCOURAGING ORDER 
INT AKE WITH BOOK- TO-BILL 
OF 1.04X 
Total PV investment
£138m
(2014: £97m)
Group revenue  
increased by
12%
(2014: 3%)
“ The Group’s primary 
focus in 201 5 remained 
the integration of 
Aeroflex and optimising 
cash generation.” 27 26
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group’s book-to-bill ratio was 1.04x (2014: 
1.03x). The book-to-bill ratio was 1.09x (2014: 1.01x) 
excluding the Aviation Services Sector, which is 
characterised by the receipt of large multi-year orders. 
At the year end, the Group’s order book was £2,477m 
(2014: £2,508m). This represents an increase of 1% 
at constant exchange rates after taking into account 
the divestments completed during the year. Included 
within this, the Aviation Services Sector’s order book 
was £1,067m (2014: £1,187m). 
Revenue
A summary of changes to Group revenue in the year 
is as follows:
 
2014
FX  
translation
Acquisitions/
divestments
Organic 
growth
 
2015
£1,852m £12m £235m £(27)m £2,072m
T otal Group revenue increased by 12% to £2,072m 
(2014: £1,852m), primarily driven by the full year 
impact of the Aeroflex acquisition, net of divestments 
completed during the year. There was also a £12m 
net benefit from foreign currency translation, primarily 
relating to the US dollar. This was partially offset by an 
adverse impact principally from the Australian dollar, 
the euro and the Danish krone.
Group organic revenue declined 1% in the year.  
There was good growth of 4% in non-US  
defence/security markets, where there was higher 
retrofit and aftermarket revenue for avionics products 
within the Communications and Connectivity Sector 
and increased revenue from actuation products for 
air-to-ground munitions within the Mission Systems 
Sector. In the US defence/security market, organic 
revenue declined 1%. There was increased aerial 
refuelling revenue from the Lockheed Martin 
C-130 and the Boeing KC-46 programmes within 
the Mission Systems Sector, but this was offset 
by lower volumes of integrated assemblies and 
microelectronics due to the continued run off 
of certain mature production programmes in 
the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector. 
The overall growth in defence/security markets 
was offset by a 6% decline in organic revenue 
in commercial markets, principally within the 
Communications and Connectivity Sector. The Sector 
benefited from growth in aerospace markets, driven 
by higher volumes of SA TCOM and avionics products. 
However, this was offset by significantly lower marine 
SA TCOM volumes, particularly in the fourth quarter, 
which was due to reduced demand in oil and gas, 
and shipping markets. There was also lower organic 
revenue from wireless products, after a strong 2014. 
Technology investment
Company funded PV investment increased in the 
year to £138m (2014: £97m), primarily due to the 
full year impact of Aeroflex. This represents some 
8.2% (2014: 6.7%) of revenue.
In addition to company funded PV, customer 
funded R&D was £120m (2014: £101m) primarily 
relating to aerial refuelling development programmes. 
The Group has continued to make encouraging 
progress with this development activity with the 
Airbus A400M entering low rate initial production 
at the end of the year. The KC-46 entered its flight 
test phase at the end of the third quarter 2015. 
It is expected that the rate of R&D investment in 
these programmes will moderate in 2016, as the 
Group moves from development into low rate 
initial production.
Trading profit
The Group’s trading profit was £332m (2014: 
£287m), an increase of £45m including a full 
year contribution of £23m from acquisitions 
net of the impact of divestments. This result also 
included the positive impact from efficiency savings, 
Aeroflex integration benefits and the non-repeat of 
the £15m aerial refuelling provision taken in 2014. 
There was a partial offset to this from the adverse 
impact of lower shorter cycle commercial volumes 
and the adverse revenue mix in the Advanced 
Electronic Solutions Sector. The trading margin 
increased to 16.0% (2014: 15.5%).
Group statutory operating profit was £12m 
(2014: £57m). The most significant items not 
included in underlying profit were additional 
amortisation expense on intangible assets arising 
on business combinations of £177m (2014: £114m). 
This relates primarily to the full year impact of 
the Aeroflex acquisition. In addition, there were 
increased business restructuring costs of £67m 
primarily relating to the integration of Aeroflex 
(2014: £52m – Excellence in Delivery programme and 
Aeroflex integration). There was also an impairment 
of goodwill of £27m (2014: £nil) relating to the 
Group’s unmanned systems business and amounts 
provided related to businesses held for sale of £69m 
(2014: £nil). This related to the Surveillance business 
which was divested shortly after the year end. These 
items were offset in part by business acquisition and 
divestment related items of £39m (2014: £41m loss), 
primarily the net profit on divestments completed 
in the year. 
Underlying net finance expense and 
underlying profit before tax
The Group’s net underlying finance charge for 
the year was £52m (2014: £30m). The underlying 
net expense on cash and debt holdings was £49m 
(2014: £26m), with the increase primarily reflecting 
the full year impact of interest on borrowings related 
to the Aeroflex acquisition. There was also a net 
adverse impact from foreign currency translation of 
£4m. The non-cash net finance charge from pension 
schemes was £3m (2014: £4m). In 2016, the Group’s 
non-cash net finance charge from pension schemes 
is expected to be £2m.
The Group’s underlying profit before tax was £280m 
(2014: £257m) and the statutory loss before tax was 
£40m (2014: profit of £24m).
Taxation
The Group’s underlying tax rate increased to 
21.5% (2014: 20.3%) from an underlying tax charge 
of £60m (2014: £52m) reflecting the full year impact 
of the former Aeroflex businesses, where the Group 
has a higher marginal tax rate. 
Earnings per share (EPS)
Underlying EPS was 19.5p (2014: 18.5p), an increase of 
5% on the prior year. The primary drivers of the increase 
in underlying EPS were the net impact of acquisitions 
and divestments, and efficiencies, partially offset by 
the dilutive impact of the May 2014 share placing 
US defence/security
(1)%
(2014: (4)%)
Non-US defence/
security
4%
(2014: (6)%)
Commercial
(6)%
(2014: 5%)
Organic revenue growth 29 28
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Financial Review continued
Below free cash flow, the Group paid dividends in 
the year of £122m (2014: £108m). The increased 
dividend payments reflect the Group’s progressive 
dividend policy and the impact of the additional 
shares issued via the prior year placing.
Net divestment proceeds of £137m (2014: £897m 
net acquisition payments) in the year primarily 
comprised the proceeds from the divestments of 
Weinschel and Inmet, the Composites businesses 
and Metelics, partially offset by final acquisition 
costs relating to Aeroflex.
In addition, there was a £25m outflow (2014: 
£180m – net receipt, primarily from the issuance of 
new shares) relating to the net purchase of treasury 
shares held to satisfy future vesting of Director and 
employee awards and options under the Group’s 
share based payment schemes.
Dividends and dividend policy
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 
2015 of 8.13p (2014: 7.746p). This, together with 
the Group’s interim dividend of 3.05p (2014: 2.904p), 
will result in a total dividend per share for 2015 of 
11.18p (2014: 10.65p), an increase of 5%. 
Cobham has a long track record of dividend 
growth and remains committed to a progressive 
dividend policy. The Group’s strategy is to build and 
maintain leading positions in its markets with the 
aim of growing earnings sustainably and generating 
robust cash flows. 
At the 2014 full year results, the Board announced 
that future dividend increases would be broadly 
aligned with underlying earnings growth, while 
rebuilding dividend cover over time. In 2015, 
underlying earnings per share increased 5%, or 7% at 
constant translation rates, and accordingly the Board 
has recommended a 5% increase in the dividend.
and adverse foreign currency translation. At constant 
currency underlying EPS was up 7% on the prior year.
Basic EPS was a loss of 3.3p (2014: profit of 2.6p), 
principally due to the impact of the items set out in 
the paragraph on statutory operating profit above.
Cash flow
Operating cash flow, which is stated after net capital 
expenditure but before interest and tax payments, 
increased to £235m (2014: £208m). Operating cash 
conversion was broadly consistent with the prior year 
at 71% (2014: 73%). This included increased working 
capital of £49m and, as anticipated, increased capital 
expenditure, which was £24m higher, with the 
largest increase being within the Aviation Services 
Sector. The increased capital expenditure reflected 
continuing investment in the aircraft fleet as a result 
of multi-year awards won in 2014. In addition, 
the Group increased its expenditure on IT as it 
commenced the roll-out of its new ERP system.
The increase in working capital was in part due to 
higher inventory levels in shorter cycle businesses, 
as production was increased in anticipation of 
customer demand that did not materialise. In 
addition, there was a net working capital increase 
from development programmes, reflecting the 
ongoing high level of investment, despite the receipt 
of significant customer milestone payments in the 
year. Partially offsetting this, there was good progress 
in some business units, where improved operational 
execution resulted in lower inventory and debtors. 
Free cash flow was £106m (2014: £114m) after 
restructuring payments of £48m, primarily relating 
to the Aeroflex integration (2014: £32m – Excellence 
in Delivery and Aeroflex integration). Also included 
within free cash flow were interest payments of 
£49m (2014: £25m), including the full year impact of 
the Aeroflex acquisition debt and an adverse foreign 
currency translation impact. In addition, there were 
tax payments of £32m (2014: £37m).
Reconciliation of underlying measures
£m 2015 2014
Operating profit 12 57
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring 67 52
Derivative financial instruments 19 22
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 177 114
Impairment of goodwill 27 –
Exceptional legal costs – 1
Amounts provided related to businesses held for sale 69 –
Other business acquisition and divestment related items (39) 41
Total operating reconciling items 320 230
Trading profit 332 287
Underlying profit before tax is calculated as follows:
Profit before taxation (40) 24
Adjusted to exclude:
Total operating reconciling items as above 320 230
Non-underlying finance costs – 3
Underlying profit before taxation 280 257
Taxation charge on underlying profit (60) (52)
Underlying profit after taxation 220 205
Underlying EPS (pence) 19.5 18.5
Operating cash flow
£235m
(2014: £208m) 29 28
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Treasury 
The Group’s treasury activities are managed centrally 
by the Group Treasury function, which reports to 
the Chief Financial Officer. The Treasury function 
operates within written policies and delegation 
levels that have been approved by the Board. It is the 
Group’s policy that trading in financial instruments is 
used for financial risk management purposes only.
Debt and financing 
At the year end, the Group’s net debt had decreased 
to £1,207m (2014: £1,223m), including the cash 
proceeds from divestments completed in the year. 
There were also adverse exchange movements of 
£80m (2014: £59m) at the year end, which were 
in large part driven by the strengthening US dollar, 
which impacts translation of the Group’s debt. It is 
the Group’s policy to hold a significant proportion of 
its borrowings in foreign currency, as a natural hedge 
against earnings denominated in that currency. At 
the year end, the net debt/EBITDA ratio was 2.9x.
Included within net debt are cash deposits, which 
are primarily denominated in UK pounds, US dollars 
and euros, as well as borrowings. At 31 December 
2015, the Group held total cash and short term 
bank deposits, net of offsettable overdrafts and all 
with an original maturity of three months or less, 
of £295m (31 December 2014: £225m).
Under the terms of its borrowing facilities,  
the Group is required to maintain its ratio of net  
debt/EBITDA at or below 3.5 times and its interest 
cover ratio at or above 3.0 times. For covenant 
purposes, net debt is expressed at average foreign 
currency translation rates. EBIT A, EBITDA and net 
interest numbers include proforma adjustments 
related to joint venture interests, acquisitions and 
divestments and restructuring.
Debt covenants
2015 2014
Net debt (£m) – balance sheet (1,207) (1,223)
Net debt (£m) – average rate (1,161) (1,159)
EBITDA (£m) 396 440
Net debt to EBITDA  
(not to exceed 3.5 times) 2.9 2.6
EBIT A (£m) 333 298
Net interest (£m) 49 28
Interest cover  
(not less than 3.0 times) 6.8 10.5
The Group successfully refinanced the remaining 
US$370m of its short term acquisition bridge 
finance facility, which was originally agreed in May 
2014 to partially finance the acquisition of Aeroflex. 
The refinancing was completed during May 2015 
and secured additional funding which matures in 
tranches in 2018, 2020 and 2022. The refinancing 
was carried out in the bank market. 
At the year end, a summary of the Group’s principal 
borrowings included the following:
 − A US$360m multi-currency credit agreement, 
of which US$90m expires in October 2016 and 
US$270m expires in October 2018. Interest is 
payable at the applicable benchmark rate of the 
drawn currencies plus margin. US$293m had been 
utilised at the year end;
 − A €70m multi-currency credit agreement expiring 
in October 201 8. Interest is payable at the applicable 
benchmark rate of the drawn currencies plus 
margin. €56m had been utilised at the year end;
 − A DKK525m multi-currency credit agreement 
expiring in October 2018. Interest is payable at 
the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin. The facility was undrawn 
at the year end;
 − An AUS$90m multi-currency credit agreement 
expiring in October 2018. Interest is payable at 
the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin. AUS$59m had been 
utilised at the year end;
Cash flow
£m 2015 2014
Trading profit 332 287
Depreciation, amortisation and other items 68 83
Pension contributions in excess of service cost and administration cost (18) (17)
Increase in working capital (49) (71)
Net capital expenditure (98) (74)
Operating cash flow 235 208
Operating cash/trading profit 71% 73%
Net interest paid (49) (25)
Taxation paid (32) (37)
Restructuring costs (48) (32)
Free cash flow 106 114
Dividends paid (122) (108)
Acquisition payments less divestment proceeds and other related costs 137 (897)
Net purchase of treasury shares and placing (25) 180
Exchange movements (80) (59)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt 16 (770)
Opening net debt (1,223) (453)
Closing net debt (1,207) (1,223)
Cash conversion
71 %
(2014: 73%)
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com 31 30
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Financial Review continued
Foreign exchange translation exposure arises on the 
earnings of operating companies largely based in the 
US, Europe and Australia. These are partially offset 
by foreign currency denominated interest costs due 
to the Group’s policy, as set out above, of generally 
funding acquisitions with borrowings denominated 
in the same currency. This provides a partial hedging 
of currency denominated profits.
After taking into account the hedging of the Group’s 
foreign exchange translation exposure within the 
income statement, a combined 1 cent movement 
against the pound sterling in the average rate over 
one year’s trading for the currencies above would 
have had a £1.1m impact on Group profit before 
tax in 2015. The Group estimates that the US dollar 
accounts for approximately two thirds of this impact.
Foreign currency transaction
The Group’s aim is to reduce, or eliminate 
whenever practical, foreign exchange transaction 
risk, of which the US dollar/pound sterling and the 
US dollar/Danish krone exchange rates are the most 
significant. The Group has a number of other, smaller 
foreign exchange transaction exposures, including 
the euro/US dollar. 
The chart on page 31 summarises the Group’s 
main foreign currency transaction exposures 
and the hedging in place to mitigate it. 
All foreign exchange hedging transactions are 
approved under delegated authority from the 
Board. A number of financial instruments are 
used to manage transactional foreign exchange 
exposure, such as forward rate contracts. The 
Group has a policy of hedging at least 80% of 
estimated transactional exposure for the next 
12 months, a proportion of exposures between 
12 and 36 months, and firm exposures on long 
term contracts. Details of the most significant of 
these instruments are described in notes 21 and 
23 of the notes to the Group Financial Statements.
Some 92% of the Group’s anticipated transaction 
exposure to the US dollar/pound sterling exchange 
rate is hedged for 2016 at an average rate of 
US$1.53/£1, with additional hedging in place to 
partially cover anticipated exposure in subsequent 
years. 81% of the US dollar/Danish krone exposure is 
hedged for 2016 at an average rate of US$1/DKK6.76, 
again with additional hedging in place to partially 
cover anticipated exposure in subsequent years.
Interest rates
Cobham has various long and short term borrowings 
at both fixed and floating rates of interest. The Group 
monitors its exposure to movements in interest rates 
to bring greater stability and certainty to its borrowing 
costs, with the policy being to assess the proportion of 
borrowings that are fixed and floating in the context 
of prevailing market conditions.
 − A US$185m facility expiring in October 2018. 
Interest is payable at the applicable benchmark 
rate plus margin. The facility was fully drawn at 
the year end;
 − US$1,21 3m of senior notes maturing in tranches 
in 2016, 201 7 , 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2024, with 
an average coupon of 4.4%;
 − US$155m of senior notes maturing in 201 7 
and 2018, with an interest rate at the applicable 
LIBOR rate plus margin;
 − €1 35m and US$40m raised from banks and 
maturing in tranches in 2020 and 2022, with 
interest at the applicable floating rate 
benchmark plus margin; and
 − A US$75m fixed rate agreement which expires 
in 2031 and under which the lender has a series 
of options exercisable every three years from 
December 2016.
The Group has exposure to a number of financial 
risks, including liquidity risk and credit risk, which are 
described in note 23 of the notes to the Group 
Financial Statements. In addition, it has exposure to 
the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange 
rates and interest rates, and these are described below. 
Loans refinanced 
US$370m
Foreign currency translation 
The following are the average and closing rates for 
those foreign currencies that have the most impact 
on the translation of the Group’s income statement 
and balance sheet: 
 
2015 2014
Income statement – average rate
US$/£ 1.53 1.65
AUS$/£ 2.03 1.83
€/£ 1.38 1.24
DKK/£ 10.27 9.25
Balance sheet – closing rate
US$/£ 1.47 1.56
AUS$/£ 2.03 1.91
€/£ 1.36 1.29
DKK/£ 10.13 9.60
Maturity profile of Group’s outstanding 
debt facilities (£m)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
1,623
1,456
1,371
844
615
461
291
288
288
–
£1,207m net debt at
31 December 2015 31 30
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Retirement obligations
Cobham operates a number of defined benefit 
pension schemes, with the largest being the 
Cobham Pension Plan in the UK. At the year end, the 
estimated deficit for accounting purposes, which is 
the difference between the value of the schemes’ 
assets and the present value of the future liabilities, 
was £57m before deferred tax (2014: £102m). 
A reconciliation of the movements in the pension 
deficit in the year is shown in the table below.
£m
Pension deficit at 1 January 2015 (102)
Interest charge (3)
Net employer funding 19
Actuarial gains 30
Exchange differences (1)
Pension deficit at 31 December 2015 (57)
Significant movements within the actuarial gains 
of≈£30m above were:
 − An increase in discount rate assumptions, which 
are based on corporate bond rates, resulting in 
lower liabilities. This is net of the investment in 
de-risking strategies that were undertaken in 
previous years; and
 − A favourable impact from the triennial valuation 
of the main scheme at 1 April 2015.
The £19m reduction in the deficit from net employer 
funding above relates to employer contributions 
made in the year in excess of scheme service costs 
and administration expenses.
The Scheme is being closed to future accrual 
from 1 April 2016, having been closed to new 
entrants since 2003, with alternative defined 
contribution schemes offered in all cases. 
Cobham remains committed to the support of 
the legacy defined benefit pension schemes within 
the Group and continues to work with the trustees 
of those schemes to ensure that net deficit issues 
are managed appropriately. This has included the 
undertaking of a significant buy-in transaction in 
2013 which eliminated the Group’s exposure to 
interest rate, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with the pension population at the time of the 
transaction. In addition, there was an investment 
in 2014 in liability driven investments to provide 
further cover against interest and inflation volatility.
Further details on the Group’s retirement benefit 
schemes in the year, including the primary 
assumptions, the amounts recognised in operating 
profit and the changes in value of defined benefit 
schemes are given in note 22 of the notes to the 
Group Financial Statements.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position, are set out in the business overview 
on pages 1 to 25 and the principal risks on pages 
32 to 37. In addition, notes 1, 14, 21 and 23 of the 
notes to the Group Financial Statements include 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital, financial risk management, 
details of financial instruments and hedging activities, 
and its exposure to credit, liquidity and other risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources 
with liquidity available on the balance sheet from 
its cash resources and it has a spread of maturities 
on its debt. Its operations have delivered good 
levels of free cash flow over time, driven by above 
average trading margins for its markets and relatively 
low capital intensity. It has a mix of shorter and 
longer term contracts and leading market positions 
with customers across different geographic areas. 
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully. Accordingly, after making enquiries, 
the Directors have formed a judgement at the time 
of approving the financial statements that it is their 
expectation that the Company and the Group as a 
whole have adequate financial resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements. See also the Group’s 
Viability Statement on page 34.
Simon Nicholls 
Chief Financial Officer
2 March 2016
2016 US$ transaction  
exposure hedged
92%
Foreign exchange transaction exposure
2016 Total
US$/DKK US$/£
Hedging in place
Hedging in place
 
2017
2018 to 2022 US$2m
US$67m
US$37m
US$62m
Hedged for 2016
US$/£ - 92%
US$/DKK - 81%
 
Avg hedge rates
US$1.53:£1
US$1:DKK 6.76
Avg hedge rate
US$1.52:£1
US$1:DKK 6.50
 
Avg hedge rate
US$1.57:£1
US$1:DKK 6.07
US$99m
US$122m
US$109m
US$119m 33 32
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Operational Management
Vertical & Horizontal Functions
Internal & External Audit
 
 
Risks &
Actions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring 
& Reporting
  
Policy &
Controls
ERM
1
st
 Line
2
nd
 Line
3
rd
 Line
Principal Risks
THE EXECUTION OF OUR OBJECTIVES 
IS SUPPORTED BY AN EFFECTIVE 
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
How we manage risk
The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the 
business. It recognises the importance of having 
effective processes and procedures for identifying, 
actively monitoring, mitigating and managing the 
financial and non-financial risks facing the Group.
By regularly reviewing the principal risks reported 
across the Group by businesses and functions, and 
satisfying itself that these risks are managed within 
the Group’s stated risk appetite, the Board ensures 
that the Group’s risk exposure remains appropriate 
and that this links to the effective delivery of its 
strategic objectives.
The Board has ultimate accountability for the 
execution of risk management systems and 
internal controls, with the Risk Committee, 
comprising members of the Group Executive, 
responsible for overseeing execution of risk 
management throughout the Group. 
The Board has delegated responsibility for 
the detailed monitoring and reviewing of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
and risk management systems to the Audit 
Committee. Assurance over the effectiveness 
of these systems is provided by a combination 
of regular management reporting to the Audit 
Committee and, for the Advanced Electronic 
Solutions Sector, which contains classified US 
Defense programs and so operates under a US DoD 
Special Security Arrangement (SSA), via specific 
assurances and authorised assurance reports given 
by representatives of the SSA Board. The Group’s 
CEO and CFO both sit on the Board of the SSA. 
Improvements to the effectiveness of governance 
and assurance procedures between the Group and 
the SSA are continually reviewed. 
The process for monitoring and controlling risk, 
illustrated below, emphasises ongoing evaluation 
and monitoring by the management teams at 
each appropriate entity level: business unit, Sector, 
specialist function or at Group level. The Group’s 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework is 
structured to ensure that risks are identified promptly 
by management teams, to support the achievement 
of their strategic objectives and to ensure that they 
are mitigated and managed appropriately in support 
of the delivery of the Group’s strategic plan. Risks 
are categorised in terms of inherent risk (before 
mitigation) and current risk (after existing mitigation). 
This allows the Group to identify risks that are heavily 
dependent on internal mitigating controls and to 
allocate resources appropriately. 
The risks identified through this process have been 
captured in a dedicated software system that is 
used to track, monitor and document ownership 
and management of individual risks. Data from this 
system has been aggregated and themed, reviewed 
under the Governance structure outlined above and 
has been used as the basis for the Group’s principal 
risk disclosure on pages 35 to 37.
The Group manages risk by operating a ‘three lines 
of assurance’ risk and control model. The first line 
consists of operational management implementing 
and maintaining effective internal controls and 
risk management procedures. They are supported 
by a number of Group functions which, together 
with performance management procedures, form 
the second line. Internal audit, which is part of the 
third line, is empowered to provide an independent 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls 
(guided by the risk appetite) and risk management 
processes and procedures, as well as identifying areas 
for improvement. Internal audit primarily reviews 
controls over financial, property management, US 
Government sensitivity, export compliance and IT 
risks. As part of the governance, risk and assurance 
(GRA) project it is the intention to expand the scope 
of assurance to cover a broader range of strategic 
risks. The internal audit function reports directly to 
the Audit Committee to ensure its independence 
and objectivity. In addition, the Audit Committee 
takes account of the views of the external auditors.
These lines of assurance include the Group’s 
ethics reporting system, enabling employees to 
raise concerns over ethics and compliance matters. 
This control mechanism highlighted a concern 
over revenue recognition practices at one of 
the business units at the year end. A thorough 
independent investigation conducted by senior 
management confirmed that the concerns raised 
were founded but isolated only to that business 
and to the 2015 year end. Misstatements identified 
have been quantified and corrected within these  33 32
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Increasing risk appetite
Conservative Balanced Assertive
Operational
Risk
Strategic
Risk
Financial/
Reporting
Risk
Compliance
Risk
STRATEGIC REPORT
financial statements. Control enhancements are in 
the process of being implemented to ensure that 
this matter does not recur.
Risk appetite
Under the sponsorship of the CFO, the project to 
review the Group’s GRA framework has established 
a≈risk appetite baseline through which Cobham’s 
risks can be managed with appropriate controls and 
assurance measures. The framework builds on best 
practice COSO ERM principles (see Glossary for 
definition). Under these principles, risk events can 
be categorised under four main headings: Strategic, 
Operational, Reporting/Financial and Compliance. 
The Group has broken down these risk categories 
into a number of subcategories and defined its 
risk appetite for each. The risk appetite is articulated 
as conservative, balanced or assertive across the 
various elements of the risk framework, with a 
principles based approach defining what each 
means for a given risk subcategory.
As shown on the risk appetite diagram below, 
typically there is a balanced appetite for taking risk 
across the Operational and Reporting/Financial risk 
subcategories – the cost of taking the risk is carefully 
weighed against the resultant benefits.
There is a more assertive appetite for areas of strategic 
risk including the promotion of growth, for example 
in business and product portfolios and in the strategic 
planning processes. 
There is a conservative appetite for Compliance risk. 
The Group’s controls, mitigation activities and 
associated assurance measures implemented reflect 
the risk appetite for each position.
Contract risk and effective project  
and programme management
We describe the risk associated with effective 
project and programme management 
execution on page 36.
Raising standards in project and  
programme management
Insufficient project and programme 
management (PPM) capabilities and Life 
Cycle Management (LCM) rigour can lead to 
poor programme execution, while excessive 
application is wasteful, both from a cost and 
administrative burden perspective. 
Cobham’s LCM framework risk categorises 
projects and programmes, both customer and 
company funded, allowing us to assess the 
inherent risk in a project or programme and 
allocate management resources appropriately. 
How we are managing the risk
We are enhancing our PPM capabilities at 
assessment centres. Leadership and PPM 
competencies are assessed against defined 
professional standards over three days, with 
personal development plans created, and 
further training provided through a virtual 
training academy. This allows us to assess 
individuals’ suitability to manage different 
types and categories of project/programme.
Outcomes and lessons learned
The priority has been training project and 
programme managers who are running our 
highest risk, customer funded contracts. This has 
resulted in an increasing number of individuals 
becoming formally qualified following the 
rigorous training received, benefiting the 
individual, the customer and Cobham.
The risk appetite position for each principal risk is shown on pages 35 to 37 . 35 34
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Principal Risks continued
Viability Statement
Assessing the prospects of the Company
The Directors consider viability as part of their 
continuing programme of monitoring and managing 
risk. The Board has concluded that the most 
relevant time period for this review should be three 
years, taking account of the diversity in demand 
characteristics of its end markets. These range from 
relatively long cycle businesses, such as Cobham’s 
Aviation Services and aerial refuelling businesses 
which both contain predominantly multi-year 
contracts, to the less predictable, largely commercial, 
shorter cycle businesses, such as Cobham’s SA TCOM 
and Wireless businesses, which typically operate 
with an order backlog of a few months or less.
The starting point in assessing the prospects of the 
Company and events that may prevent successful 
achievement of these, as required by provision 
C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, was 
the annual strategic planning process. A description 
of Cobham’s strategic planning process can be 
found in the Audit Committee report on page 52. 
While this process and associated financial plan 
covers a period of five years, the first three years 
of the plan are considered to contain all of the key 
underlying assumptions that will provide the most 
appropriate information realistically on which to 
assess the Group’s viability.
Assessing viability
In making their assessment, the Directors took 
into account the potential impact of the principal 
risk events identified in the strategic planning 
process that could prevent the Group from 
achieving its strategic objectives. These principal 
risks are described in detail in the Principal Risks 
section of this report on pages 35 to 37. Sensitivity 
analyses were run to model the financial and 
operational impact of plausible downside scenarios 
of these risk events occurring individually or in 
combination. These included the impacts of a further 
deterioration in the macroeconomic environment, 
underperformance in executing the Group’s strategy 
to return to organic revenue growth, failure to derive 
targeted benefits from the Group’s operational 
and cash generation improvement initiatives, 
underperformance on major contract cost estimates 
and associated programme management controls, 
the impact of a significant business interruption 
event and a change in regulations impacting the 
Group’s internal financing structure. Consideration 
was also given to the plausibility of the occurrence 
of other individual events that in their own right 
could have a material impact on the Group’s viability. 
None of these events was considered plausible.
Based on the consolidated financial impact of the 
sensitivity analysis and associated mitigating internal 
controls and risk management actions that are either 
now in place, as described in detail for each principal 
risk on pages 35 to 37, or could be implemented, 
the Directors have been able to conclude that the 
Group will be able to operate within its existing bank 
covenants and maintain sufficient bank facilities to 
meet its funding needs over the three-year period. In 
coming to this conclusion, it has been assumed that 
a successful renewal including the £300m of mixed 
currency bank facilities is achieved in October 2018.
Confirmation of longer term viability
Based upon the assessment of the principal risks 
facing the company and robust downside sensitivity 
analysis, all of which are described above and on 
pages 32 to 37, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as 
they fall due over the period to December 2018. 
The Group’s Going Concern Statement is detailed 
on page 31.
Significant business interruption risk 
We describe the risk associated with significant 
business interruption on page 37. 
Minimising the threat of disruption from fire 
and natural catastrophe events
The threat of fire causing a significant supply 
chain disruption is inherent in the manufacturing 
environment. Natural catastrophe risks, such as 
flood, earthquake and windstorm, are largely 
dependent on location.
Both the likelihood and the impact of most 
loss events can be positively impacted through 
prudent management activity and loss 
prevention programmes.
How we are managing the risk
Working in close consultation with our insurers, 
we aim to eliminate or manage inherent fire and 
natural catastrophe threats, and to ensure that 
effective business continuity management (BCM) 
is in place. This helps to ensure that the business 
interruption risks that are inherent in our business 
are appropriately managed.
For our larger manufacturing locations, we have 
an ongoing commitment to meet or exceed 
insurance industry best practice loss prevention 
guidance. This includes investing in fixed automatic 
fire protection in areas of significant fire risk.
For our smaller locations we focus on implementing 
more basic but effective loss prevention programmes 
and incident management plans, with some 
targeted investment in physical protection measures.
Outcomes and lessons learned
We look to continuously improve the standards 
of property loss prevention and BCM across our 
manufacturing footprint. These efforts have seen 
the majority of our larger manufacturing facilities 
being recognised as best in class from a property 
loss prevention perspective.
It is important that we continue to improve the 
standards achieved and we use third parties to 
verify our loss prevention and BCM efforts.
 
Cobham’s Marlow facility in the UK is the latest facility 
to be recognised, by its property damage and business 
interruption insurer, FM Global, for its property loss 
prevention efforts. Each facility is assessed against 
FM Global’s industry recognised standards. 35 34
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
 
Unchanged    
 
Increasing risk    
 
Decreasing risk    
 
Emerging new risk
1.  Deterioration in the 
macroeconomic environment 
adversely impacting our markets
Risk
The Group’s revenue is derived from commercial 
and global defence/security markets. Underlying 
customer demand is dependent on a complex mix 
of macroeconomic, fiscal, and strategic defence and 
security imperatives.
Variations in government/customer demand levels or 
other external factors resulting from changes in these 
macroeconomic factors could lead to programme/
contract terminations or delays, or changes in market 
growth rates.
Impact
Deterioration in demand affecting shorter cycle 
businesses or a fundamental shift in how customers 
procure products or services could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s future results leading to:
 − Missed growth targets
 − Reduced earnings
 − Failure to win new business, resulting in adverse 
performance against the Group’s strategic plan
Mitigation
A review of near and long term market trends is 
conducted as part of the Group’s annual strategic 
planning process to ensure that actual and anticipated 
impacts from macroeconomic risks are minimised and 
managed effectively. 
Regular reviews of externally sourced market 
demand data, with the re-forecasting and adjustment 
of internal planning in line with market demand.
Increased emphasis is being placed on identifying 
adjacent markets in which the Group’s proven and 
transferable technologies can be applied.
The Group has achieved more balance in its portfolio 
towards commercial markets, with the aim to achieve 
sustainable growth through economic cycles.
A culture of continuous improvement will enable 
Cobham to have market leading operating 
performance, while reducing costs. This will 
enable Cobham to grow market share and remain 
competitive in the face of volume declines or price 
pressures, and while retaining flexibility to adjust the 
cost base appropriately to changing market conditions.
Link to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
Risk appetite
Assertive
Risk status indicator   
Global macroeconomic conditions remain uncertain.
2.  Failure to execute strategy, to 
deliver performance in line  
with financial plans supported  
by effective value creating  
M&A activity
Risk
The Group’s ability to generate profitable organic 
revenue growth consistently is a key strategic 
objective and driver of value creation. Insightful, 
complementary and well executed M&A activity 
in line with the Group’s strategic objectives has 
supplemented this value creation.
Failure to define and execute the Group’s growth 
strategy effectively will lead to impaired business 
performance.
Impact
Failure to grow leads to an impaired competitive 
position and can also result in reduced trading 
margins and a declining return on invested capital.
The Group will experience an impact on employee 
recruitment and retention, potential reputational 
damage and a reduced ability to invest for future 
growth.
Mitigation
Carry out effective strategic planning – maintain 
robust and dynamic processes to ensure the Group 
is exposed to growth markets and creates value 
through business cycles.
A continued focus on and investment in 
programme management to ensure customer 
expectations are met, which underpins the Group’s 
ability to grow. Continued appropriate investment 
in future technologies with alignment to identified 
market growth areas and customer needs.
A cycle of budgets and forecasts together with 
tracking of actual performance including reasons 
for variances against plans.
Rigorous M&A disciplines (both pre- and  
post-transaction), aligned with the Group’s strategic 
planning process, improves the ability to successfully 
execute and deliver value from transactions.
Link to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Group PV investment
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
 − Voluntary staff turnover
Risk appetite
Balanced
Risk status indicator  
The Group’s portfolio is being actively managed 
to optimise the total performance in continued 
challenging market conditions. 
3.  Failure to comply with  
laws and regulations 
Risk
Cobham operates in a highly regulated environment 
and is subject to the laws, regulations and restrictions 
of many jurisdictions, notably including those of the 
US and the UK. 
These include anti-bribery provisions, import and 
export controls, tax, government contracting rules, 
US DoD regulations regarding conduct of business 
under the Group’s SSA, human rights, environmental, 
and health and safety regulation. 
A lack of understanding of legal and regulatory 
restrictions in force in the jurisdictions in which 
it operates could lead to the Group being in 
contravention of laws or regulations.
Impact
Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales 
intermediaries, or others acting on its behalf to comply 
with laws, regulations and restrictions could include 
fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment 
of the Group from future government contracts 
for a period of time, as well as having a potentially 
significant impact on the Group’s reputation. Such 
sanctions could also have an impact on the Group’s 
financial position and future operations. 
Mitigation
Cobham employs rigorous procedures to ensure it 
remains in compliance with all legal requirements 
and regulations, and continues to drive a culture that 
ensures that ethical, environmental, and health and 
safety considerations are embodied in all that it does.
Policies and procedures are included in the Group’s 
corporate framework to ensure all of the Group’s 
compliance requirements are met. This is regularly 
reviewed and audited, including procedures related 
to the use of sales and marketing representatives, 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, 
whistleblowing, and investigation of ethics and 
compliance concerns, along with Cobham’s Code 
of Business Conduct.
Mandatory training is undertaken by all 
employees on a variety of compliance related 
subjects including US Government contracting 
and anti-bribery and corruption.
See the CR&S section on pages 38 to 41 for 
information on human rights, environmental, 
and health and safety actions.
Link to KPIs
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Return on invested capital
 − Staff safety
Risk appetite
Conservative
Risk status indicator  
The regulatory landscape remains broadly 
unchanged.≈However, increased scrutiny in 
certain areas has been noted. 37 36
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Principal Risks continued
4.  Failure to derive targeted benefits 
from organisational design within 
an effective governance framework, 
with appropriate skills and talented 
employees recruited and retained 
Risk
Key to the execution of the Group’s strategic plan 
is the effective implementation and embedding 
of the organisation design (OD) project within an 
enhanced governance framework. This project aligns 
the Group’s management and reporting structures 
with the drive to deliver sustainable growth.
Failure to deliver the OD project, resulting in the lack 
of an appropriately skilled and effectively deployed 
workforce and management team, will see the 
Group’s ability to deliver against its strategic plan 
to return to growth impaired.
Impact
This will lead to suboptimal financial performance, 
loss of investor confidence and a failure to deliver 
shareholder value.
Mitigation
Implementation of the OD concepts and 
structures remain on track to deliver the desired 
‘operating company’ construct for the Group. 
A key focus remains to ensure that key talent 
is recruited and retained.
The CFO led project, to enhance the Governance, 
Risk and Assurance Framework in accordance with 
best practice enterprise risk management, remains 
on course to deliver an appropriate yet flexible 
level of control across the business. This will allow 
appropriate risk taking within the Group’s stated 
appetite, and drive improvements in performance 
through application of effective governance and 
best practice principles.
See the CR&S section on pages 38 to 41 for 
information on talent management actions.
Link to KPIs
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
 − Voluntary staff turnover
Risk appetite
Balanced
Risk status indicator  
The OD project has been implemented and 
the governance, risk and assurance initiative 
continues to support the execution of the 
Group’s vision and strategy.
5.  Contract risk and effective project 
and programme execution 
 
 
 
Risk
The Group designs, develops and delivers products 
and services that are often customised, utilising 
complex technologies, under fixed price contracts 
that can be long term in nature. This gives rise to 
the risks of failure to execute contracts profitably, 
the supply of defective or delayed product, the 
occurrence of other contractually related liabilities, or 
damage to reputation and commercial relationships.
Impact
Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a project 
or programme gives rise to the risk of increased 
programme costs, damages, litigation and other 
financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and 
reputational risk.
Poor operational performance could also lead to 
customers withholding new and existing business 
from the Group.
Mitigation
LCM and programme management procedures are 
intended to ensure that the Group’s key contract and 
programme management policies and procedures 
are applied consistently and appropriately across all 
areas of the business. These procedures also provide 
increased focus on improvements to its LCM and 
programme management capabilities.
There is monthly reporting of progress against 
agreed LCM improvement actions to the Group 
Executive, and semi-annually to the Audit 
Committee.
Application of the Group’s revised contracts policy 
will ensure appropriate levels of risk transfer/sharing 
commensurate with our risk appetite.
Link to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
Risk appetite
Balanced
Risk status indicator  
The Company continues to be in a significant phase 
of engineering and development activity on various 
programmes and platforms.
6.  Failure to deliver shareholder value 
from the Aeroflex acquisition 
 
 
 
Risk
Failure to deliver the planned synergies and growth 
from the Aeroflex acquisition, which was completed 
in 2014, will have a detrimental impact on the 
Group’s financial performance and returns. 
Impact
The Aeroflex transaction is important to the 
achievement of the Group’s strategic plan. 
Failure to deliver the business case will lead to  
poor financial results and will adversely impact  
the Group’s reputation.
Mitigation
A comprehensive due diligence process was 
undertaken during the pre-acquisition process.
Post-acquisition, detailed assessments have been 
undertaken against the due diligence findings and 
comprehensive integration plans established.
Aeroflex performance is continuously monitored 
against the due diligence plan with regular 
oversight from the Group’s M&A Committee.
Retention plans are in place for key individuals 
and the integration programme is subject to 
the comprehensive LCM review process.
Link to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
 − Voluntary staff turnover
Risk appetite
Assertive
Risk status indicator  
It is anticipated that the multi-year integration 
programme will be complete by the end of 2017.
 
Unchanged    
 
Increasing risk    
 
Decreasing risk    
 
Emerging new risk 37 36
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
7 .  Significant business  
interruption risk  
 
 
 
Risk
The Group’s businesses could be impacted by natural 
disasters or fire events affecting its operational 
locations or suppliers, by other significant events in 
the supply chain or by IT systems failures (including 
from cyber attack), rendering critical systems or 
manufacturing locations unable to function. 
Impact
Unscheduled interruption to business activities would 
result in reduced profits, loss of customer satisfaction, 
potential cost outlays, and reputational impact. 
Mitigation
The Group maintains major incident/IT failure 
business continuity plans. Employees are trained 
in relevant procedures.
IT security and capability are continually monitored 
and strengthened when needed.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover 
and works closely with insurers and other third 
party experts to ensure operating infrastructure and 
processes include robust risk improvement activities. 
See the CR&S section on pages 38 to 41 for further 
details on mitigating actions against business 
interruption risk arising from environmental factors.
Link to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Return on invested capital
 − Staff safety
Risk appetite
Balanced
Risk status indicator  
IT security threats continue to escalate. The Group  
has increased exposure to site specific IT risks 
through the additional sites that were acquired as 
part of the Aeroflex transaction. See the case study 
on page 34 for details of how the Group manages 
fire and natural catastrophe risks.
8.  Failure to successfully execute 
continuous improvement 
programmes, including the 
implementation of standard 
IT services and security, across 
the portfolio
Risk
Failure to deliver growth and improvements in 
operational performance that are sustainable.
Linked to this is the deployment of standard IT 
services, for example an effective cyber security 
and enterprise resource planning system across 
the Group, which underpin the Group’s CI initiatives. 
Impact
Project, programme, production and service 
delivery will be adversely affected, increasing 
costs and reducing customer satisfaction.
Mitigation
CI benefits are built into budgets with progress 
monitored at quarterly business review meetings.
CI sustainment training has been delivered to 
business management teams.
Assessment and accreditation processes have been 
developed to assess sites with respect to CI and to 
identify areas for improvement.
Robust management of plans to ensure site 
readiness and planning of implementation resources 
into site budgets for ERP and other standard 
IT service implementations, including targeted 
improvements to cyber security.
Detailed application test planning and ERP execution,  
including stress and load tests, application performance, 
network and security tests.
Link to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
Risk appetite
Balanced
Risk status indicator   
CI professionals have been embedded in the 
business unit management teams, with CI 
resources increased during the year.
9.  Deterioration in trading 
performance or in cash generation 
leading to higher debt and 
increased gearing 
 
Risk
Delivery of below target business performance and 
cash generation, leading to higher than anticipated 
debt and higher gearing.
Impact
Higher debt and gearing would lead to reduced 
capacity to fund organic investment and M&A, 
possible breaches of bank covenants and associated 
reputational risk.
Mitigation
Cash performance across the Group is closely 
monitored and regularly reviewed by the CFO. 
Monthly performance and cash flow forecasts are 
reviewed by the CFO and CEO. This is reported to 
the Board on a monthly basis. There are robust 
policy controls and processes covering the Group’s 
treasury activities including cash policy, credit 
collection policies, working capital metrics and other 
performance targets. See pages 26 to 31 for more 
information. The business proactively aligns its cost 
base when market conditions necessitates this.
Link to KPIs
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
Risk appetite
Balanced
Risk status indicator  
All Group operating units are actively engaged 
to optimise cash generation and to implement 
efficiency saving initiatives. The Group is focused 
on working capital improvement and also requires 
business units to prepare formal investment 
appraisals to support capital expenditure and 
major investments. CI programmes also help to 
further mitigate risk as this supports operational 
improvements, leading to increased cash generation 
and trading profit. 39 38
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
Introduction
There is an increasing trend towards responsible 
investment among large investors, with many 
signatories to the United Nations’ supported 
Principles for Responsible Investment. The approach 
typically involves screening out companies that do 
not act responsibly or by integrating environmental, 
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues 
into their investment analysis. Cobham recognises 
this and strives to proactively address investors’ 
ESG expectations.
Approach to corporate responsibility  
and sustainability
Cobham’s approach to CR&S is developed and 
implemented through the central CR&S team and 
overseen by the CR&S Committee chaired by the 
CEO. The role of the CR&S team is to engage key 
stakeholders to identify material ESG risks to the 
Group’s business objectives and work with the 
businesses to mitigate these risks through policy, 
standards, tools, training and information disclosure.
Identified material ESG risks are included in the 
CEO’s papers to the Board as well as through various 
Board and Executive committees which consider 
their short and long term value impacts. The Board 
receives training on key topics such as ethics and 
health and safety.
All material ESG disclosures are verified internally and 
external statements reviewed by Cobham’s auditors, 
which in this regard is KPMG, see page 70 for more 
information. The Group obtains external limited 
assurance on its greenhouse gas emissions.
Maintaining high ethical standards
Approach 
Much of Cobham’s business is within highly 
regulated markets. Compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations is a key Group principal risk (refer to 
risk 3 on page 35), and Cobham’s policy is to comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations. The Group 
is also committed to sustaining an ethical culture, 
as acting responsibly and sustainably with full legal 
compliance is a critical operational requirement 
and a source of potential competitive advantage. 
To help drive the right culture, Cobham has an 
ethics and compliance programme, including 
policies, processes and activities. This is overseen 
by the Business Ethics & Compliance Committee and 
ultimately the Board. The programme is underpinned 
by the Code of Business Conduct (COBC), which 
contains Cobham’s core values and expectations of 
behaviour on a range of issues, including anti-bribery. 
All employees receive training and this is tracked. 
Cobham also maintains an independent hotline 
and website where suspected COBC violations can 
be reported. Further details on Cobham’s approach 
to ethics and compliance can be found at www.
cobhamsustainability.com/at-a-glance/
downloads.aspx.
A related risk area is the use of third party 
intermediaries as a route to market. Failure to comply 
with laws and regulations or to act responsibly can 
impact the Group’s reputation as well as lead to 
significant fines or debarments from government 
contracts or new business with customers. Cobham’s 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy requires 
“Corporate responsibility 
and sustainability is a 
key driver of shareholder 
value, presenting 
opportunities for growth 
and efficiencies, as well 
as risks for mitigation. 
We welcome feedback 
on our approach 
and performance.”
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUST AINABILITY IS A KEY DRIVER 
OF SHAREHOLDER V ALUE
intermediaries to undergo a comprehensive due 
diligence and approval process before engagement. 
See Audit Committee Report on page 53 for further 
information on compliance, whistleblowing and 
fraud reporting.
 
Performance in 2015 
In 2015, 100% of Cobham’s employees completed 
COBC training. 
Cobham has voluntarily engaged with Transparency 
International (TI), a non-governmental organisation 
that works with government and business to put 
in place measures to tackle corruption. Based on 
publicly available data on its policies and practices, 
Cobham was benchmarked within band B in TI’s 
2015 Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Index. 
When incorporating both public and internal 
Cobham data, the Group was benchmarked as 
within band A. Further information on the results 
and methodology used is at http://companies.
defenceindex.org/.
Cobham is in the process of adopting best practice 
in managing its supply chain responsibly. The Group’s 
Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM) policy 
is to prefer suppliers that demonstrate responsible 
and sustainable business practices. The approach 
considers how suppliers positively address potentially 
material ESG risks that could impact their ability to 
supply Cobham or impact Cobham’s reputation on 
a risk prioritised basis. These risks include bribery and 
corruption; human rights issues such as slavery and 
human trafficking; and conflict minerals, hazardous 
materials legislation and resource efficiency.  39 38
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Cobham’s RSCM policy is available at  
www.cobhamsustainability.com/at-a-glance/
downloads.aspx.
Looking forward
Cobham will continue to build its ethics programmes 
by focusing on training employees, conducting due 
diligence and actively engaging its business partners 
to act responsibly and sustainably.
Attraction and retention of talented 
and engaged employees
Approach
Attracting and retaining talented and engaged 
employees is critical to the ability to execute strategic 
growth plans, deliver on key programmes and meet 
service level requirements. Failure to do so could result 
in a reduced ability to meet customer requirements 
and grow the business (refer to risk 4 on page 36).
Cobham’s approach is to identify, attract and retain 
employees with the right skills and capabilities through 
strategic workforce planning, leadership and functional 
competency development, employee engagement, 
diversity and inclusion, and competitive reward 
practices. The talent and engagement programmes 
are overseen by the Board.
Performance in 2015
Cobham has continued the development of 
functional competency frameworks and expanded 
its leadership, graduate and apprenticeship 
development programmes. At the end of 2015, 
Cobham employed 3.7% of its UK workforce as 
apprentices, graduates and undergraduate placements 
(summer placements and year-in-industry placements) 
and is on track to meet its 5% commitment by 2019 
(www.5percentclub.org.uk). 
In addition, Cobham continues to roll out its 
three-year Institute of Leadership and Management 
accredited line management training programme.
Cobham uses voluntary staff turnover to measure the 
effectiveness of its talent management and employee 
engagement approach. In 2015, Cobham’s voluntary 
employee turnover was 11.2%, above the 10% target. 
This is attributed to the OD project which was largely 
implemented in the prior year. This significant project 
involved changes in role or reporting lines for some 
employees. The higher turnover is considered to be a 
short term impact arising from these changes. Providing 
a rewarding work environment and engaging employees 
continues to be a focus of the Group’s Great Place 
to Work
®
 initiative. Following an employee opinion 
survey, each business facilitated listening sessions 
to identify key issues, root causes and solutions. Site 
management is tasked with implementing local actions 
with common issues addressed on a Group-wide 
basis. One action arising from this initiative is the 
adoption of a set of corporate values and a strategic 
framework to help employees understand how they 
can contribute to the Group’s objectives. 
In 2015, Cobham became a core member of the 
Employer’s Network for Equality and Inclusion (enei), 
one of the UK’s leading employer networks addressing 
workplace equality and inclusion issues. Working with 
enei, Cobham launched its revised Diversity and Inclusion 
strategy and policy establishing North American, 
European and Asia-Pacific regional line led councils, 
with quarterly reporting. In addition, its outsourced 
recruitment partner now provides a diversity specialist. 
Females/Total (%) 2015 2014 2013
Board of 
Directors
2/10 
(20%)
2/9
 (22%)
1/9
 (11%)
Senior 
Management
1
 
20/135 
(15%)
24/154 
(16%)
17/147
4
 
(12%)
Senior 
Management
2
 
21/144 
(15%)
18/129
(15%)
10/117
 (9%)
Total 
workforce
3
3,649/
12,658 
(29%)
3,001/
10,941
4 
(27%)
2,785/
10,091
4
 
(28%)
1
 Statutory definition – Directors of a subsidiary company.
2
 Cobham definition – Vice President grade or higher.
3
  T otal workforce data is an average over 2015, all other data is  
as at 31 December 2015.
4
 Correction from previously stated value.
Cobham’s gender diversity profile in 2015 included 
29% (2014: 27%) female representation within the 
workforce. Based on the statutory definition of Senior 
Managers, comprising Directors of subsidiary legal 
entities, female representation was 15% (2014: 16%). 
Under Cobham’s definition, comprising Vice President 
grade and above, female Senior Managers were 15% 
(2014: 15%) of the total. There continued to be two 
female Non-executive Directors but the proportion 
decreased from 22% to 20%, with the appointment of 
an additional male Non-executive Director in the year.
Looking forward
Cobham continues to focus on embedding a strategic 
workforce planning methodology to ensure it has 
the right skills and capabilities in the business. It also 
continues to drive functional excellence through 
competency frameworks, established career path 
development and strong partnerships with academia 
and subject matter experts. Cobham will also continue 
to invest in its development programmes including its 
accredited, in-house certificate in management for 
line managers. In relation to employee engagement, 
further management training, deployment of its 
SPIRIT values and a follow-up Great Place to Work
®
 
survey are scheduled for 2016. Diversity and inclusion 
training will be provided to senior management 
focusing on the business case, recognition of bias 
and inclusive management practices. 
Providing safe working environments, 
products and services 
Approach
Cobham strives to provide a safe working environment 
for all employees, contractors and visitors and 
recognises that strong health and safety processes 
drive benefits in many areas of its operations. Further, 
the provision of reliable, safe products and services 
is critical to customers. Failure to deliver consistently 
high standards of safety and health could lead to 
accidents or incidents resulting in prosecutions, fines, 
loss of assets, business interruption and widespread 
reputational damage (refer to risk 3 on page 35).
Cobham’s most significant safety risk is in the 
operation and maintenance of aircraft in the Aviation 
Services Sector. This is addressed through robust, 
regulator-approved safety management systems. 
In terms of workplace risks, manual handling, repetitive 
strain, and slip and trip injuries are the most common 
causes of injury or illness. Cobham’s approach to 
workplace health and safety, called ‘Zero Harm’, 
promotes a continuous improvement health and 
safety culture that strives to minimise injuries and 
Code of Business  
Conduct training
100%
Target: 100%
(2014: 100%)
Voluntary staff 
turnover
11.2%
Target: <10%
(2014: 6.3%)
Cobham’s SPIRIT values
Safety Provide a safe workplace for 
our people, ensure the safety 
of the products and services 
we provide, and take care of 
the world we live in.
Performance Consistently deliver and seek 
to exceed expectations while 
improving what we do and 
how we do it everyday.
Innovation Create an environment 
to encourage new ideas, 
regardless of where they come 
from, and have the courage to 
try, fail, learn and then succeed.
Relationships Develop trusted interpersonal 
and customer relationships by 
listening, appreciating diversity, 
striving to understand, being 
inclusive and delivering on our 
commitments.
Integrity Act ethically in all that we do, 
not only in compliance with 
the laws and regulations that 
govern us but also in the spirit 
of ethical behaviour and doing 
what is right.
Trust Be open, transparent: we say 
what we’ll do and do what 
we say. 41 40
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Leadership & 
Management 
Commitment
Continuous Improvement
Monitoring & 
Assurance
Communication  
& Engagement 
Risk 
Management
Incident 
Management
Emergency 
Management
Competency
Planning & 
Resources
Regulatory 
& Corporate 
Compliance
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued
illnesses occurring in the workplace and promote 
employee wellbeing. This is implemented through 
the consistent application of 10 safety, health and 
environment (SHE) standards covering management 
behaviour, processes, training and documentation. 
They are implemented through a three tiered 
performance matrix (Level 1 Foundation, Level 2 
Target and Level 3 World Class). Level 1 is compliance 
and risk management driven to ensure compliance 
with the law, addressing SHE risk on a priority basis. 
Level 2 focuses on continuous improvement and 
maps directly to the internationally recognised 
OHSAS18001 and ISO14001 management standards.  
Level 3 focuses on opportunities to develop competitive 
advantage with customers and suppliers. 
Cobham also provides its businesses with 12 SHE 
T echnical Standards against which they are required 
to self-assess and report quarterly. The T echnical 
Standards address common SHE management 
processes and risks including employee consultation, 
managing contractors, emergency response, manual 
handling, occupational health, risk assessment, 
safety training and housekeeping. Accountability for 
implementing the Group’s SHE approach rests with 
line management and this is monitored by a steering 
committee with Board oversight.
Leading and lagging workplace safety indicators 
are used to measure Cobham’s SHE performance. 
Management drives correct behaviours through 
monitoring safety training, risk assessments, workplace 
inspections and the reporting of near misses, while 
the incidence and severity of workplace injuries and 
illness measure the effectiveness of the Group’s 
approach. Further details on Cobham’s SHE policy, 
management standards and performance are at 
www.cobhamsustainability.com/at-a-glance/
downloads.aspx.
Major accident  
incident rate*
269
Target: 400
Aspiration: 0
(2014: 423)
* Work-related injury/illness cases  
with three or more lost work days 
per 100,000 employees.
Manual spray painting of antenna parts 
at Marlow, UK
Cobham Antenna Systems in Marlow, UK is the 
first site in the Group to achieve verified World 
Class status against Cobham’s SHE Management 
Standards. The site was also awarded an 
International Safety Award 2015 (with Merit) 
from the British Safety Council. Effective site 
leadership, competent personnel, a high level  
of staff engagement and a commitment to 
continuous improvement were the drivers of  
this result. 
Performance in 2015
In 2015, management set a target for all principal 
manufacturing and aviation locations to achieve 
Level 2 of Cobham’s SHE maturity matrix with the 
remaining smaller sites at Level 1. Out of 42 sites, 26 
sites achieved the target and a further nine exceeded 
it. The remaining seven sites (17%) are required to 
meet the target in 2016. All the leading indicators 
on training, risk assessment, workplace inspections 
and near miss reporting met the targets. The Group 
improved its major accident incident rate to 269 
(2014: 423) and there were no fatalities in the year. 
The Group’s minor accident and recordable injury/
illness incident rate increased slightly although the 
severity of injuries decreased. Of the 192 recordable 
injuries reported in the year, 32% were caused by 
repetitive motion and manual handling, 16% from 
slips and trips, and 12% from collision with fixed or 
stationary objects. The remaining 40% were from a 
range of causes including cuts, falls, stress, exposure to 
harmful substances and contact with moving objects.
Looking forward
Management has set a target for all manufacturing, 
R&D and aviation locations to achieve Cobham’s Level 
2 target (the equivalent of OHSAS18001) by the end 
of 2016 with all former Aeroflex sites targeted to be 
at Level 1. Key performance indicator targets have also 
been increased in a challenge to improve further. A 
dedicated Group Head of SHE joined Cobham early in 
2016 to further mature its systems and performance.
Managing environmental impacts
Approach
Cobham recognises that its operations, activities, 
products and services have an impact on the 
environment and that the environment also impacts 
Cobham. Part of Cobham’s value proposition is to 
optimise material use and energy efficiency to reduce 
customer operational cost. The focus will intensify as 
resource access and pricing becomes more volatile.
The Group’s most significant environmental impact 
is its greenhouse gas emissions from burning 
aviation fuel needed to deliver customer contracts. 
Other significant impacts include greenhouse gas 
emissions from logistics, business travel and facility 
energy consumption as well as the consumption of 
water and raw materials in facilities, manufacturing 
processes and the supply chain.
The two most significant environmental impacts on 
Cobham are the potential for adverse weather events 
(e.g. flooding, wildfire) to cause significant business 
interruption at its facilities and in its supply chain, 
together with increasing environmental legislation, 
carbon taxes and customer requirements which are 
anticipated following the global climate deal agreed 
in Paris in 2015.
Cobham promotes an environmentally responsible 
culture to manage its impacts, comply with 
increasing environmental legislation, meet customer 
requirements, reduce operating costs and minimise 
business interruption. Many of Cobham’s products 
and services aim to derive competitive advantage 
from the efficient use of materials, fuel and low 
power consumption, which can provide operational 
benefits to users. 
Safety, Health and Environment 
Management Standards SYDNEY
AUCKLAND
3 ENGINE TAXI
WAS CARRIED OUT
ON ALL 
ARRIVALS
INTO PERTH FOR A YEAR
THE FUEL SAVED
would be enough to OPERATE
A RETURN FLIGHT
ON A BOEING 747
FROM SYDNEY
TO AUCKLAND
IF A 
15kg
100kg
DESCENT
41 40
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
Failure to effectively manage environmental impacts 
could result in prosecutions, fines, loss of business, 
business interruption and reputational damage across 
its stakeholders.
Cobham seeks to manage its environmental impact 
by using a series of measures including:
 − Reducing legacy aircraft fuel consumption and 
transitioning to more fuel efficient aircraft as 
appropriate. For example, the Aviation Services 
Sector has introduced the Embraer 190 in Australia. 
This is a next generation jet-engine aircraft, and 
the first of its type to be engaged in the closed 
charter fly-in fly-out market there; 
 − Including a ‘Design for Environment’ approach to 
the Group’s engineering strategy. This ensures legal 
compliance and reduced environmental impacts, 
lower costs and competitive advantage by 
designing small and light products with reduced 
power requirements;
 − Reducing facility level greenhouse gas emissions 
across a number of operating sites through 
practical efficiency measures, including: lighting, 
heating, ventilation and air conditioning upgrades, 
sensor lighting and destratification fans;
 − Reinforcing business continuity measures and 
effective emergency response planning, in 
preparation for adverse weather events and 
natural disasters.
Cobham measures a range of related metrics 
including greenhouse gas emissions, environmental 
management, water consumption and resource 
efficiency. For further information, see the Group’s 
website at http://www.cobhamsustainability.
com/environment.aspx. 
Performance in 2015
Cobham’s overall carbon footprint increased by 15% in 
the year driven by the full year impact from the former 
Aeroflex businesses with these being more energy 
intensive than existing Cobham businesses. 
However, excluding Aeroflex, and despite some 
additional flying activity in the Aviation Services Sector 
from additional customer awards, energy intensity 
decreased by 11%. This is due to the implementation 
of efficiency measures (see above) and the 
divestment, closure and integration of operating sites. 
Further details on greenhouse gas emissions can be 
found in the Directors’ Report on pages 68 and 69.
Cobham has complied with the UK’s Energy 
Saving Opportunity Scheme Regulations 2014 by 
undertaking independently reviewed energy audits 
at all its major UK locations. The audit identified 
potential annual savings of £360,000 across the UK 
portfolio based on a £1m capital investment with 
payback under three years. Cobham is evaluating 
the recommendations, which include installation 
of light-emitting diodes, and voltage and building 
management system optimisation, to decide whether 
to implement them ahead of the next review in 2019.
Cobham’s score in the 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) climate change investor survey increased from 
92% to 97% due to improved disclosure of its climate 
change strategy and risks. 
Its performance banding decreased from A to B 
primarily due to its absolute emissions performance. 
Further detail on CDP’s scoring methodology can be 
found at https://www.cdp.net/Documents/
Guidance/2015/CDP-climate-change-scoring-
methodology.pdf. 
For the first time Cobham has been requested to 
provide carbon emissions data for commercial 
customers through the CDP supply chain programme. 
These customers are seeking to identify the significant 
sources of carbon in their product lines. An increasing 
number of such requests is anticipated in the future.
All the Group’s principal manufacturing locations have 
maintained the highly protected risk status through 
compliance with insurers’ standards. This enables 
Cobham to mitigate risks associated with extreme 
weather events such as flooding.
Looking forward
Cobham will continue to set ambitious annual energy/
carbon reduction targets for its facilities and develop 
fuel burn targets for aircraft under its operational 
control. In addition, it is looking at developing best 
practice science based targets for emission reductions. 
This will help the Group contribute towards the UN’s 
goal of keeping global warming within two degrees of 
pre-industrial temperatures. 
Cobham Aviation Services’ fuel efficiency 
awareness poster
Facility energy
intensity reduction*
11 %
Target: 10% 
(2014: 8%)
* MWh per £1m revenue,  
excluding Aeroflex. 1. 2.
3.
4.
5.
43 42
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Board of Directors
1. John Devaney
Non-executive Chairman
BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE
Age: 69 
Appointed: Director February 2010, Chairman May 2010 
Skills and experience: John’s executive career was built 
in engineering companies within the Varity Group. John has 
previously served as Non-executive Director of Northern 
Rock Asset Management (between 2007 and 2010), 
Chairman of Marconi plc, later renamed T elent, and 
Chairman of National Express Group plc. He was President 
of Perkins Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be 
President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive components 
manufacturer. He was subsequently Chief Executive of 
Eastern Electricity, the largest regional electricity company 
in the UK at the time. Following its acquisition by Hanson, 
he was appointed Chairman of Hanson’s electricity division. 
John retired from his role as Non-executive Chairman 
of NA TS (National Air Traffic Services) in August 2014.
External appointments: None.  
Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination 
Committee.
2. Robert (Bob) Murphy
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director
Age: 58 
Appointed: June 2012
Skills and experience: Bob was with BAE Systems for  
13 years from 1999, serving as a member of the Executive 
Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive Vice President 
for the global operations of the product sectors business 
for BAE Systems, Inc., including the Electronic Systems, 
Land and Armaments and Platform Solutions Sector. He 
has also held a number of other senior operational and 
financial roles with BAE Systems. Prior to this, Bob spent 
18 years with General Electric (GE) company, where he 
held numerous financial leadership positions, culminating 
in his role as CFO of the military engines operation of the 
GE Aircraft Engines Group. Previously, Bob has served on 
the Board of Trustees for the US National Defense Industrial 
Association and the Board of Visitors for the Clark School of 
Engineering at the University of Maryland.
External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Chair of the Executive 
Directors Committee.
3. Simon Nicholls
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
BSc (Hons), ACA
Age: 51 
Appointed: May 2013
Skills and experience: Simon was CFO of Senior plc, 
the FTSE250 international manufacturing group 
providing engineered products for aerospace, defence 
and commercial industrial applications, a position he held 
from 2008. Previously, Simon was CFO of Hanson North 
America and prior to that he was Financial Controller for 
Hanson plc for three years. Simon spent nine years with 
Price Waterhouse, now PwC, in the UK and Canada, and 
four years working in senior financial positions. Simon 
served as a Non-executive Director of AIM listed 
Hamworthy plc from September 2011 until its takeover 
in February 2012. Simon is a Chartered Accountant, holding 
a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics, Operational Research, 
Statistics and Economics from the University of Warwick.
External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Member of the Executive 
Directors Committee.
4. Mike Wareing
Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI
Age: 62 
Appointed: December 2010
Skills and experience: Mike worked for KPMG from  
1973 until 2009 when he retired. Between 2005 and 2009, 
he was International Chief Executive Officer, KPMG; 
Chairman, KPMG International Executive T eam; and 
Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board. He was formerly the 
Prime Minister’s Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq. 
Mike retired from his role as Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley plc in 
November 2014. 
External appointments: Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the  
Audit Committee of Intertek Group plc, and  
Economic Development Adviser to the Government  
of Afghanistan.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
5. Alison Wood 
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
Age: 52
Appointed: July 2011
Skills and experience: Alison is engaged with a mix of 
not for profit and non-executive activities in the UK and 
New Zealand. She was formerly Global Director Corporate 
Development and Strategy for National Grid plc. Previously, 
she was Group Strategic Development Director for BAE 
Systems plc responsible for corporate strategy, mergers 
and acquisitions, and strategic business development 
across the UK and US. She has held three previous 
Non-executive Directorships: BTG plc from 2004 to 2008, 
THUS plc from 2007 to 2008 and GCHQ from 2009 to 2011.
External appointments: Non-executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director of e2v technologies plc. 
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Costain Group plc and British Standards 
Institution, a Royal Charter company.
Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
Chairman Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 7.
6. 8.
9.
10.
43 42
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
6. Alan Semple 
Independent Non-executive Director
BA, CA
Age: 56
Appointed: February 2015
Skills and experience: Alan was formerly CFO and 
a Director of John Wood Group plc, a role he had held 
since 2000, and retired in May 2015. Prior to this, he 
held a number of senior finance roles in the John Wood 
Group from 1996. Alan previously served as the Group 
Finance Director of GRT Bus Group plc from 1994 to 1995, 
one of two companies which merged to form FirstGroup 
plc. Between 1987 and 1994, he was Finance Director at 
Seaforth Maritime Group Limited. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director of 
T eekay Corporation.
Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee 
and member of the Nomination Committee.
7. Mike Hagee
Independent Non-executive Director
Age: 71 
Appointed: December 2008
Skills and experience: Mike served in the US Marine 
Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007 as 
Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff. His numerous military assignments 
included Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary 
Force, Deputy Director of Operations at the US European 
Command and Executive Assistant to the Director of 
Central Intelligence. He also served in a number of diplomatic 
missions including the presidential diplomatic mission to 
Somalia. Mike retired from his role as Non-executive Director 
of Remington Outdoor Company Inc. in February 2015.
External appointments: President and CEO of the 
Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, T exas, US, 
Co-Chairman of the Commission on Energy and Geopolitics, 
Non-executive Director of SGI Corp. and DynCorp 
International Inc., and Outside Manager on the Government 
Security Committee of the Special Security Agreement 
of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company. 
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
8. David (Jonathan) Flint
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP
Age: 55 
Appointed: May 2013
Skills and experience: Jonathan is currently CEO 
of Oxford Instruments plc, a leading provider of high 
technology tools and systems for research and industry, 
a position he has held since 2005. Prior to this, he was 
the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has also 
held management positions with BAE Systems and GEC 
Marconi Avionics. A physics graduate from Imperial 
College London, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012.
External appointments: CEO of Oxford Instruments plc. 
Committee membership: Member of the Audit 
and Nomination Committees.
9. Birgit Nørgaard 
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
Age: 57
Appointed: April 2014
Skills and experience: Birgit, a Danish national, currently 
holds a number of non-executive roles in the private and 
public sectors in the UK and overseas. Birgit’s last executive 
role was as both the Chief Executive Officer of Grontmij 
Carl Bro, the Danish engineering consultancy group as well 
as the Chief Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, the Dutch 
parent company. An economics graduate from Copenhagen 
Business School, Birgit has an MBA from INSEAD.  
External appointments: Non-executive Director of IMI 
plc. Birgit is a Non-executive Director at WSP Global Inc, 
a global consulting engineering company listed in Canada, 
and DSV A/S an international transportation company listed 
on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. She also holds Board 
positions in private companies and public sector positions.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. 
10. Mark Ronald
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE
Age: 74 
Appointed: January 2007
Skills and experience: Mark was, until his retirement 
at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE 
Systems plc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems 
Inc., its wholly owned US subsidiary. Previously he was 
Vice-President, Programme Management with Litton 
Industries and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries. 
Mark was a Non-executive Director of A TK Inc. Mark was 
also a Non-executive Director of Aeroflex Holdings Inc. 
until the acquisition of the Group by Cobham plc in 
September 2014.
External appointments: Non-executive Director of 
Anaren, Inc., and DRS T echnologies, Inc., a subsidiary of 
Finmeccanica. Senior Adviser of Veritas Capital LLC and a 
management consultant.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees.
Non-executive Directors 44
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Corporate Governance Report
“ We made good progress 
on our strategic objectives, 
in particular the key 
objective to integrate the 
former Aeroflex business 
into the Group, assisting 
the Company to return to 
growth, despite current 
headwinds in certain 
commercial markets.” 
FOCUS ON EXECUTION AND
PORTFOLIO REBALANCING
Dear Shareholder,
We have made great progress with the Aeroflex integration combining the 
skill sets of the existing Cobham and Aeroflex employees in the newly enlarged 
Group and realised synergy benefits comfortably ahead of our original plan. 
The combination broadens our commercial footprint, and is helping us to 
make considerable headway in rebalancing the portfolio between defence 
and commercial markets. 
The Group’s new organisational structure came to life on 1 January 2015, 
creating a more simplified and streamlined organisation. We encountered 
some hardware subsystem development and design maturity issues within  
our air-to-air refuelling business, which led to a £15m provision, announced 
in February 2015. We have recovered well from these issues and it is pleasing 
to recognise that these programmes are now in a much more stable state, 
in part due to the strengthening of our engineering and programme 
management capabilities. 
We launched a new employee engagement initiative under the banner of 
Great Place to Work
®
, which is aimed at building increased levels of trust 
within the workplace so that all of our employees can work together to achieve 
Cobham’s full potential and truly become a great place to work. We are pleased 
with progress so far. 
The Board has remained fairly static during 2015. Alan Semple joined us in 
February 2015 and is settling in to his new role as Chair of the Audit Committee, 
but other than that there have been no changes at Board level. Mark Ronald steps 
down as a Non-executive Director after serving nine years, at the forthcoming 
AGM. We thank Mark for his invaluable contribution to the Group over this period 
and wish him every success in the future.
Our markets in 2016 will, no doubt, continue to challenge and we will continue to 
work hard to respond to those challenges. I trust we can rely on your continued 
support for the foreseeable future.
Corporate Governance Index
1. Board of Directors     42
2. Corporate Governance Report    44
3. Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code  49
4. Nomination Committee Report    50
5. Audit Committee Report    52
6. Directors’ Remuneration Report    58
7. Other Statutory Information    67
8. Statement of Directors’ Responsibility   71  www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
45
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Highlights of 2015
 − The integration of the Aeroflex businesses purchased in 2014 has advanced 
and synergies have been recognised earlier than originally planned;
 − The organisational redesign for the business was formally launched on  
1 January 2015;
 − Oversight of the development programmes with increased LCM and 
engineering capabilities to support;
 − A new Sector President for Communications and Connectivity has been 
appointed this year. In addition, other key appointments to the Group 
Executive in: IT ; Engineering; and Operations/Supply Chain Management. All 
of these changes have been made to further enhance the strength of the 
senior management team. The succession plan for this team, including the 
Sector teams, was fully reviewed during the year; 
 − The strategy adopted during 2014 was further refined and the Group’s 
strategic objectives reviewed;
 − Continued oversight of the restructuring of the portfolio with planned 
disposals of businesses, which are no longer considered core to the Group. 
Four transactions involving entity disposals and one relating to a business 
sale have been completed in the year;
 − The Board members visited four sites during 2015, primarily to familiarise 
themselves with the acquired Aeroflex businesses but also to review the 
change programmes under way in the rest of the business;
 − The Group’s dividend policy was revised with future dividend growth now 
aligned with earnings growth and with a view to rebuilding dividend cover 
over time; and
 − Evaluated and approved four large bid submissions above authority  
limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside of the regular  
Board meeting agenda.
Priorities for 2016
 − Continued oversight of the strategic agenda;
 − Review performance against agreed strategic actions, as identified on 
pages 16 and 1 7; 
 − Focus on driving customer satisfaction through improved operational 
execution and continuous improvement through the business;
 − Drive employee engagement to respond to concerns identified as part 
of the Great Place to Work
®
 initiative. Oversee a further survey during 
the year, to include the former Aeroflex employees for the first time;
 − Retain focus on market evaluation and strategic development; and
 − Continue to rebalance the portfolio in line with strategy.
Board meeting attendance for 2015
13 Board meetings were held during the year, attended as follows:
John Devaney
Bob Murphy
Simon Nicholls
1
Jonathan Flint
Mike Hagee
Birgit Nørgaard
2
Mark Ronald
Alan Semple
3
Mike Wareing
Alison Wood
Attended Unable to attend
1
 Simon Nicholls missed one Board meeting due to ill health.
2
 Birgit Nørgaard missed a short notice Board meeting due to other business                       
 commitments.
3
 Alan Semple joined the Board on 25 February 2015.
The Directors present their report and the audited Group and Parent Company 
Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.  
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. In accordance 
with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and at the date of this Annual 
Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (Code), please refer to page 49 for further details. 
This part of the Annual Report describes how the Company has applied, 
and complied with, the Code. The Code is published by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) and is available from its website www.frc.org.uk. 
Responsibility statements
Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 71, 
and those relating to the auditors are on pages 76 and 119.
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors in 
relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given on page 67.
Financial reporting
In the Directors’ view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015, together with 
the trading updates, the interim report and other reports made during the year, 
present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects. 
The Audit Committee, supported by management, has adopted a detailed 
process to enable the Board to take this view. The structured approach (identified 
in the Audit Committee report on page 55) has been adopted for the preparation 
and production of this Annual Report and Accounts, which the Board formally 
signed off at its meeting in February 2016.
The Board’s assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable nature of 
the Annual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, amongst other matters, 
the following:
 − The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management 
with overall responsibility for each section. Comprehensive reviews of the 
draft Annual Report and Accounts are undertaken by Executive Directors 
and other members of the senior management team, and in relation to 
certain sections by the Company’s external auditors and other advisers; 
 − An internal verification process is undertaken by the internal reviewers 
to ensure factual accuracy; and 
 − The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are prepared 
through an iterative drafting process by the Chairs of appropriate 
Committees of the Board and the final draft is reviewed by those 
Committees prior to consideration by the Board.
At its February 2016 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that the 
Annual Report and Accounts for the 2015 financial year, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and the Board believes that the information 
contained provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review on page 31.
Role and focus
The Board’s main duties are to: 
 − Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial 
performance and long term shareholder value;
 − Review and agree the Group’s strategy;
 − Ensure that the necessary resources are in place;
 − Monitor management performance; and
 − Supervise the conduct of the Group’s activities within a framework of 
prudent and effective internal controls. 46
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Corporate Governance Report continued
The Board composition
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman (John Devaney), a CEO 
(Bob Murphy), a CFO (Simon Nicholls) and seven other Non-executive Directors 
of whom Mike Wareing is the Senior Independent Director. All Non-executive 
Directors are considered to be independent and the Chairman was considered to 
be independent on appointment. They all held office throughout the year except 
Alan Semple, who joined the Board on 25 February 2015. Mark Ronald will stand 
down from the Board, having completed nine years as a Non-executive Director, 
at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM. No new Board appointments are planned as 
Alan joined as an additional Board member in 2015. 
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other 
significant commitments, are set out on pages 42 and 43. The wide ranging 
experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to 
support, debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both 
the development of strategy and the performance of the Group. The attendance 
of Directors at Board meetings is set out on the previous page and attendance at 
principal Board Committee meetings as members of such committees during the 
year is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 50, 53 and 59. 
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company 
Secretary. Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing 
a special resolution. The Directors and the Company (in the latter case by 
ordinary resolution) may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, 
either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director. 
All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time 
to meet their time commitments to the Group. Copies of their appointment 
letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available 
for inspection at the AGM. 
In accordance with the Code, which recommends that all Directors of 
FTSE350 companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all 
eligible Directors currently in office will retire and seek re-election at the AGM. 
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when proposing re-appointment that 
the individual’s performance continues to be effective and that the individual 
continues to demonstrate commitment to the role. Non-executive Directors 
are subject to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings 
and leading the Board. The CEO’s responsibilities include operational performance, 
corporate social responsibility, and the development and implementation of the 
Group’s strategy. He also focuses on long term growth and development of the 
Group, its people and customer relationships. The Board’s policy is that the roles 
of Chairman and CEO should be performed by different people. 
The Senior Independent Director’s responsibilities include the provision of 
an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the  
Non-executive Directors. He also provides another point of contact for 
shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the normal 
channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or where these 
contacts are inappropriate.
Board proceedings 
Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, were 
held six times during the year on a face to face basis and three were held 
by telephone. In addition, there were four short notice meetings to support 
Board decisions required prior to the next scheduled meeting. There is also 
contact between meetings to progress the Group’s business as required. 
Meetings are held in London and at an international operational location. 
In 2015, the Board visited sites in Stevenage and Chesham in the UK, and 
San Jose and Colorado Springs in the US. In addition, members of the Board 
made individual trips to other sites. Jonathan Flint and Mike Wareing visited 
Wimborne, UK to increase their understanding of the air-to-air refuelling 
development programmes. Mike also visited the Davenport and San Diego 
sites in the US. Alan Semple and Birgit Nørgaard visited a number of sites as 
part of their induction. Site visits help the Board to understand the business, 
its strategy, problems being faced and how they may be able to help. 
The Board is, by necessity, a very diverse group of individuals, some with 
business backgrounds and others with more general management experience. 
We need this level of diversity to make sure the decisions made at this level 
have the right input and challenge. It is also important for the Board to try to 
understand and influence the culture around the business, which cannot be 
achieved from inside the Boardroom.
Mike Wareing, the Senior Independent Director, held a meeting with the 
Non-executives, in the absence of the Chairman, to appraise the Chairman’s 
performance and to consider his re-appointment as Chairman for a further three 
year period. The Non-executives agreed to the re-appointment as Chairman, 
subject to his re-appointment to the Board being approved, by shareholders, 
at the 2016 AGM. The Chairman has also held meetings with the Non-executives 
in the absence of the Executive Directors, and 1:1 performance appraisals with 
each Non-executive Director to discuss, amongst other matters, feedback from 
the Board evaluation exercise. 
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval. 
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by 
the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise. 
Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the 
Group’s business strategy, its five year financial plan, its consolidated budget, 
Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments 
to and removals from the Board. Authority is delegated to management on a 
structured basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework 
ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level. 
Matters delegated in this way include, within defined parameters: the approval 
of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements. 
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, 
including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is 
responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board 
on corporate governance matters. The Company Secretary is appointed, and 
can only be removed, by the Board.
If a Director were to have a concern that cannot be resolved this would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. On resignation, Non-executive Directors are 
invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the 
Board if they have concerns. No such statements were made during 2015.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, 
noted and authorised. Procedures are in place and operating effectively to 
keep such disclosures up to date. 47
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board and committees performance evaluation 
The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis. 
During 2015, the Board and its committees undertook an external evaluation.  
The evaluation contract was awarded to Armstrong Bonham Carter (ABC), 
following a full tender process, which included five other service providers. 
The exercise consisted of an interview with all Board members and the 
Company Secretary, which took place around the December Board meetings. 
The agenda for these interviews was circulated to each participant prior to 
the meetings and was designed to understand whether the Directors had 
thoroughly discussed and agreed the use of shareholders’ funds to ensure the 
Company is successful whilst managing the risks inherent in the strategy, plans 
and the operating environment. This is then augmented by an assessment of 
how effective the Board is in ensuring the Group Executive implements the 
strategy, and plans and manages all the other activities of the Company. 
The interviews with the members of the Board also included individual 
Director appraisals. The results of those appraisals were fed back independently 
to the Chairman with the exception of the report on his own performance, 
which was provided to the Senior Independent Director. 
The performance of each of the Board’s committees was also subject to 
review, and reports were provided to each respective chair. 
ABC collated all feedback collected and produced a series of recommendations 
to the Board, which were considered at their February 2016 meeting. The 
Board approved an action plan to address the recommendations. A table of 
actions agreed from this and the previous performance evaluation is included 
below. During 2016, the Board will consider how to approach their evaluation 
for the year. As the 2015 exercise was an in-depth external review, for 2016, 
it is likely to be an internal exercise.
Evaluation year Observations Actions to be taken
2015 Due to the importance of Private Venture (PV) investment 
in ensuring the Company grows sustainably, the Board needs 
to have a comprehensive understanding of the opportunities 
across the diverse portfolio to ensure PV is allocated to the 
greatest opportunities.
 
Secondly, the Board should, along with the Group Executive, 
review regularly the information on customer requirements 
and satisfaction. 
The Board will examine the PV process as part of the annual 
strategic review. 
The Board needs to ensure the new organisation design 
is implemented successfully.
The Board will be monitoring the resolution of the issues 
encountered in the initial implementation of the Cobham 
Business Operating System (CBOS).
The Board will oversee the plans to improve culture and staff attitudes 
and consider assisting the Group Executive in communicating the 
strategy and the benefits of the organisational design during the 
Non-executive Directors’ usual personal visits to improve their 
knowledge of the Company and through visits to the sites by the 
Board as a whole.
The Board plans to gain a deeper understanding of the timing and 
benefits of the Continuous Improvement (CI) programme to 
ensure, in the event of further revenue weakness, that there are 
plans to further reduce cost without putting the strategy at risk. 
2014 PV investment. The continued investment in the products of the business to 
ensure currency of technology is recognised as key and more 
emphasis is being placed on pursuing (and monitoring) strategic 
opportunities through such investment.
Continued development of the strategic planning process. The Board identified a number of additional pieces of work they 
would like to see as part of the 2015 Strategic Review. These were 
all scheduled into the work cycle and delivered during the 2015 
Board strategy discussions, which took place in May 2015.
Specific strategic actions have been set for the CEO and the Group 
Executive team for 2016, see pages 16 and 17.
The performance of the Executive Directors in the context of their management and operational responsibilities is appraised under the same personal 
development review (PDR) system used throughout the business. Under this process, the Chairman appraises the performance of the CEO, and the CEO 
reviews the performance of the CFO and members of the Group Executive. The results of these appraisals are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee 
and feed directly into performance awards under the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP). 48
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Corporate Governance Report continued
Summary of 2015 investor relations activity
*The Trading update is a short quarterly update on the Group’s trading, significant events and financial position.
Board committees
The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees. Committee chairs provide 
oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board 
meeting. Information relating to the activities of each committee may be found 
on the pages that follow. All Board committees are provided with sufficient 
resources to undertake their duties.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee. 
The Executive Directors are the only members of this Committee, under the 
chairmanship of the CEO. The purpose is to assist the CEO in the performance 
of his duties and its terms of reference include: establishing and implementing 
internal policies, systems and controls to ensure that potential inside information 
is communicated to it, considered, verified and released to the market where 
required; the discharge of obligations arising under the Company’s share plans; 
the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors; the 
approval of banking facilities; and the approval of bids and contracts above 
the limits delegated to the Sectors. This Committee met on 14 occasions 
during the year and, in addition, decisions were made as required to respond 
to business needs and market conditions.
Management committees
The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management 
committees are shown in the table below. All of the below is in addition to 
formal business, business development and functional reviews, all of which 
are held on a quarterly basis.
Shareholder relations 
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective two-way 
communication programme with Cobham’s shareholders and potential 
shareholders. This approach assists investors’ understanding of the value 
drivers within the Group, including its strategy, business model and 
remuneration structure, and allows the Board to understand shareholder 
views when formulating and discussing strategy and policies. This two-way 
flow of information helps to ensure the interests of the Company and its 
investors are aligned. Cobham’s annual programme of shareholder interaction 
is pursued overall in a way which is intended to promote this aim.
Both the Strategic Report section of the Annual Report and Accounts and 
the investors section of the website (www.cobhaminvestors.com) include 
information on the Group that is intended to be of interest to shareholders, 
including the Group’s strategy, its businesses, historical financial information, 
and the Board and governance matters. 
During the year, presentations were given by the CEO and CFO to investors 
and analysts on the morning of the announcement of the Group’s interim 
and preliminary results and there was an opportunity provided to ask questions 
at each presentation. The presentations were accompanied by a live webcast 
and audio conference call for investors unable to attend in person. Copies of the 
associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, can be accessed on 
Cobham’s website, where they remain for subsequent viewing. The Group also 
held a Capital Markets Day in October 2015, which included presentations by 
the management teams running the main businesses acquired with the 2014 
Aeroflex acquisition. There was also an opportunity provided to ask questions 
and to meet the management teams informally before and after the event. 
The Director of Investor Relations is also available through the year to deal 
with shareholder queries as they arise. 
Board Directors are available at the AGM and shareholders have the opportunity 
to question the Board and to meet the Directors informally.
I have recently written to our major shareholders, reminding them that I am 
available to meet whenever they consider it appropriate.
John Devaney 
Chairman
2 March 2016
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
 Interim results
2015
Webcast & 
conference call
Trading update* AGM and 
Trading update*
Site visit
Webcast & 
conference call
Webcast & 
conference call
Investor 
conference
Investor 
conference
Investor 
conference
Industry 
exhibition and 
investor 
conference
Industry 
exhibition and 
investor 
conferences
Preliminary 
2014 results
Investor meetings
Capital Markets
Day
Site visit
Investor meetings
Vertical
leadership teams 
and horizontal
council meetings
Merger &
Acquisitions
Committee
Corporate
Responsibility
& Sustainability
Committee
Business Ethics
& Compliance
Committee
Internal Audit
Sub-committee
Talent Board
Board of Directors
Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Executive Directors
Committee
Group Executive (incorporating the Risk Committee)
Safety, Health
& Environment
Committee 49
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
B5. Provision of information and support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all 
Board members receive accurate and timely information. All the Directors have 
access to independent professional advice, at the Company’s expense, where 
the Directors judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities. 
B6. Board and committee performance evaluation
The Board and the committees undertook an external evaluation in 2015. Details 
of the process undertaken, and a table of actions instigated by this evaluation are 
included on page 47. The Senior Independent Director also held a meeting with 
the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairman’s 
performance. 
B7. Directors re-election
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election, as appropriate, 
at the AGM.
C. Accountability
C1. Financial and business reporting
The Statement of the Directors’ Responsibility is set out on page 71, and the 
Independent Auditors’ Report is on pages 72 to 76. The Company’s business 
model is explained on pages 6 and 7.
C2. Risk management and internal control systems
The Board sets the Company’s risk appetite and conducts a robust assessment 
of the principal risks, along with an annual review of the effectiveness of the 
Company’s risk management, and internal control systems. The activities of 
both the Audit and Risk Committee (part of the Group Executive Committee), 
which assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk management, 
reporting and assurance, are set out on pages 32 to 37.
C3. Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and how the Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities during the year is provided in the Audit Committee 
Report on pages 52 to 57. The T erms of Reference for the Audit Committee are 
reviewed annually and are available on the Company website. 
D. Remuneration
D1. Levels and components of remuneration
The Board believes that the Group’s remuneration policy is appropriately 
designed to promote the long term success of the Company, while enabling 
the Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for 
the delivery of its business strategy. For further information, see the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, and summarised Remuneration Policy, on pages 58 to 66. 
D2. Development of remuneration policy and packages
The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of  
Non-executive Directors only. The T erms of Reference for the Remuneration 
Committee are reviewed annually and are available on the Company website. 
The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority for setting the 
remuneration of Executive Directors and the Chairman. The fees payable to 
the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board, on recommendation 
from the Executive Directors Committee.
E. Relations with shareholders
E1. Shareholder engagement and dialogue
Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount 
importance to the continued success of the Company. The Company maintains 
a relationship with shareholders through a series of road shows completed 
through the year, which are usually attended by the CEO and the CFO. The 
Chairman makes himself available to meet with shareholders at their request 
and in January 2016 also invited the largest of the Company’s shareholders to 
meet with him independently. Further details can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 48. 
E2. Constructive use of general meetings
The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage 
with investors. Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask 
questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the 
formal business of the meeting.
A. Leadership
A1. The Board’s role
In 2015, the Board met nine times in order to review the Company’s 
performance and strategy against set objectives and a further four times 
outside of the normal sequence of meetings to deal with urgent Board 
decisions. The Board’s role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of 
strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value, to 
approve the Group’s Strategic Plan, and to monitor management performance 
against plan. The Board also sets the Group’s risk appetite, and monitors the 
Company’s risk management processes. The Board has adopted a clear schedule 
of matters reserved for its specific approval, including a framework for those 
decisions which can be delegated to committees or otherwise. Further details 
can be found in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 44.
A2. A clear division of responsibilities 
The Board’s policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed 
by different people. The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly 
understood. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness 
of the Board, and the CEO is responsible for leading the day-to-day management 
of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
A3. Role of the Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, manages the meeting timetable 
and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings. 
A4. Role of the Non-executive Directors
The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding 
board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors 
where necessary. The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders, 
should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of 
communication has failed to resolve. 
The Chairman has held regular meetings with the Non-executives in the  
absence of Executive Directors, providing an opportunity for any concerns 
to be discussed. 
B. Effectiveness
B1. The Board’s composition
The Board currently consists of ten individuals: the Chairman, two Executive 
Directors and seven independent Non-executive Directors. The composition 
of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure 
that there is an appropriate mix of skills, and a range of diverse experience. 
Board members’ biographies are provided on pages 42 and 43 and identify 
the experience each Director brings to the Board. A table identifying the skills 
and experience of the Board members may also be found on page 51. The 
Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence 
of its members. Conflicts of interest are also monitored and updated at least 
annually and more frequently as and when required. 
B2. Board appointments
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination 
Committee. The Nomination Committee’s T erms of Reference, as published 
on the Company website, document their responsibility regarding Board 
appointments. The Committee consists of all the Non-executive Directors 
and the Chairman. Further details of succession planning, including the Board’s 
policy on diversity, including gender, can be found on page 51. 
B3. Time commitments
The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment 
and regularly evaluated. The Chairman gives consideration to new directorships 
which may impact existing time commitments.
B4. Training and development
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, which 
is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives. 
Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role on a committee 
and is otherwise available as required. Further details can be found in the 
Directors’ professional development section on page 51. 50
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
“ The Board has remained 
relatively stable through  
the year, the focus has  
been on talent attraction, 
identification and 
development further down 
the management chain.” 
FOCUS ON STRENGTHENING
THE GROUP’S SUCCESSION PLAN 
Dear Shareholder
The Committee has had a relatively quiet 2015. Alan Semple joined the Board 
and Audit Committee at the beginning of 2015. There have been no other new 
Board appointments as the Board is currently at full strength, and considered to 
be operating effectively. 
As part of the implementation of the new organisational design, there has been 
an increase in our focus on succession planning, which has been led by the Board. 
A detailed review of potential successors for the CEO role and all of his direct line 
reports, together with their development needs, was performed in the year by 
the full Board. The Committee retained the responsibility for succession planning 
for the Non-executives.
After the year had ended, the Board announced that our current CFO, Simon 
Nicholls, would be moving on to perform the role of CFO for Wolseley plc, 
a FTSE50 company. We wish him well in his new role and thank him for 
his leadership contribution over the past three years. The process to recruit 
his successor has commenced and we will be considering both internal and 
external candidates. 
Role and focus
The Nomination Committee’s main duties are to: 
 − Review the structure, size and composition of the Board; and
 − Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Highlights of 2015
 − Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board; 
 − Led by Mike Wareing, the Senior Independent Director, reviewed my 
performance as Chairman of the Group, and any succession issues 
arising from this being my last three year term; and
 − Considered the succession plan and concluded that this should be an  
area for focus for the Board during 2015/16.
Priorities for 2016
 − Oversight of the search for the new CFO;
 − Continue to review succession plans for the Board members and key 
roles across the business; and
 − Continue to review Board composition to ensure competencies remain 
aligned with the Strategic Plan and that the Board continues to be  
appropriately balanced.
The Committee’s T erms of Reference, which were reviewed during the year, 
are available on Cobham’s website or on application to the Company Secretary. 
Membership and attendance
Two Nomination Committee meetings were held during the year, attended 
as follows:
John Devaney (Chair)
Jonathan Flint  
Mike Hagee 
Birgit Nørgaard 
Mark Ronald 
Alan Semple 
Mike Wareing 
Alison Wood
 
 
Attended Unable to attend
One of the meetings was to review the Chairman’s performance and agree his re-appointment.
Other attendees 
CEO, by invitation.
Nomination Committee Report 51
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors’ professional development
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme 
in the course of which they receive information about:
 − The operations and activities of the Group; 
 − The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision; 
 − The Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures; 
 − Their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed 
public limited company; and
 − Specific duties as a member of one of the Board committees. 
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and 
presentations by, members of the senior management team. Alan Semple 
followed this model in undertaking his induction at the end of 2014 and 
into 2015. 
Development for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly 
by means of internal briefing from senior management or advisers and 
external courses. In addition, Directors’ knowledge of the legal and regulatory 
environment is updated through the provision of information by the Group’s 
advisers and by means of regular updates from the Company Secretary and 
the legal team.
Site visits are considered critical to ensure that the Directors remain close to 
the business of the Group, refer to page 46 for details of site visits organised 
during the year.
Succession planning for Board members
Succession planning takes place on a regular basis to ensure that the Group 
is managed by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge. 
The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management 
resources in the Group. Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality 
in management, and robust processes are in place to help them in this task. 
Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining a 
depth of knowledge and experience on the Board. The Nomination Committee 
actively manages Non-executive Director succession having regard to anticipated 
retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for  
Non-executive Directors as positions are required. 
The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors in 
terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically above.
John Devaney 
Nomination Committee Chair
2 March 2016
Skills and experience
The table below identifies the skills and experience of the Board members.
Independence
Years with 
Cobham Skills Experience
Leadership Strategy 
UK  
Corporate 
Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR Risk
John Devaney 6 • • • • • • • • • • Bob Murphy 3 • • • • • • • • • • Simon Nicholls 2 • • • • • • • • • Jonathan Flint • 2 • • • • • • • • • • Mike Hagee • 7 • • • • • Birgit Nørgaard • 2 • • • • • • • • • Mark Ronald • 9 • • • • • • • • Alan Semple • 1 • • • • • • • • • • Mike Wareing • 5 • • • • • • • • • • Alison Wood • 4 • • • • • • • • • Diversity and inclusion
The Committee is cognisant of the 
need for diversity when considering 
the composition of the Board. In 
recruiting for Board roles, targets 
have been set around ensuring a 
proportion of female applicants are 
included in the candidate pool for 
Non-executive Director positions. 
The representation of women on 
the Board is currently 20%. 
During the year, the Board have set up 
a Culture and Talent Advisory Panel,
including representation from the 
Board, with an aim of supporting 
the diversity and inclusion initiative 
currently under way in the business. 
More details of work under way in 
this area can be found on page 39.
2012 2017 2015 2007 2022 2027
John 
Devaney
Birgit 
Nørgaard
Alan
 Semple
Mark
 Ronald
Mike
 Hagee
Mike 
Wareing
Alison
 Wood
Jonathan
 Flint
1st term 2nd term 3rd term 52
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Audit Committee Report
“   One of the key focus areas 
for 201 5 was the tender of 
the Group’s external audit.”
INCREASED ANAL YSIS OF 
THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT 
AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS 
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Audit Committee. 
2015 was a busy year for the Audit Committee: we conducted a comprehensive 
external audit tender, resulting in a recommendation for the re-appointment 
of PwC as the Group’s external auditors; we approved the appointment 
of a new Head of Internal Audit and Assurance (IA&A), and assisted in his 
development of a risk-based internal audit programme for 2016; we increased 
our interaction with Sector Finance leads, through the addition of a regular 
meeting presentation slot; we contributed to the development of the viability 
statement, and reviewed the corresponding sensitivity analysis; and we have 
kept close watch over the long term development programmes and on the 
further strengthening of LCM capabilities. 
At the 2016 AGM, I and the fellow members of the Committee will be available 
to respond to any questions shareholders may wish to raise on this report or the 
Committee’s activities. 
Highlights of 2015
 − Conducted a comprehensive external audit tender;
 − Implemented a new policy on the provision of non-audit services for 
the external auditors; 
 − Approved the appointment of a new Head of IA&A;
 − Increased the Committee’s interaction with Sector Finance leads;
 − Contributed to the development of the viability statement;
 − Oversaw the progress of the governance, risk and assurance initiative; 
 − Increased analysis of IT controls (including cyber security and disaster 
recovery); and
 − Continued to oversee the development of stronger LCM capabilities. 
Priorities for 2016 
 − Continued focus on the effectiveness of Group’s risk management systems; 
 − Oversight of a revised risk-based internal audit programme;
 − Ongoing review of the internal audit scope;
 − Oversight of the progressive transition of non-audit services away from 
the external auditors; 
 − Continued oversight of the Group’s internal controls, including assurance 
over the SSA control environment;
 − Increased focus on the implementation of CBOS; 
 − Continued oversight over the Group’s development programmes, LCM 
and IT security procedures; and 
 − Assist in the search and selection process for the new CFO. 
Responsibilities
The Committee’s T erms of Reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure 
and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code. The terms of reference, which were 
reviewed and updated in December 2015, in line with the latest regulatory 
developments, are available on Cobham’s website or on application to the 
Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 − Monitor the integrity of the Group’s Financial Statements and any formal 
announcements relating to its financial performance, reviewing accounting 
policies used and judgements applied;
 − Oversee the Group’s risk management procedures, and internal  
control systems;
 − Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function;
 − Make recommendations on the appointment, terms of engagement and 
remuneration of the external auditors;
 − Review and monitor the external auditors’ independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process; 
 − Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services; and
 − Monitor and review the Group’s policies and practices concerning business 
conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing arrangements. 53
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Composition
The Committee consists of independent Non-executive Directors only. 
The current members, aside from me, are Jonathan Flint, Mike Hagee and 
Mike Wareing. Following the 2016 AGM, Mike Wareing will be leaving the Audit 
Committee in order to join the Remuneration Committee, due to Mark Ronald’s 
departure from the Board. Biographical details for all of the Committee members 
may be found on pages 42 and 43. The members bring a wide range of financial, 
risk and business expertise to the Committee’s deliberations. The particular skills 
and experience of each member may be found on page 51. 
I am a Chartered Accountant, and was Chief Financial Officer of John Wood 
Group plc until May 2015. The Board therefore considers that I have recent 
and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code. 
Meetings
Six Audit Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows:
Alan Semple (Chair)
1
Jonathan Flint
Mike Hagee
Mike Wareing
2
Attended Unable to attend
1  
Alan Semple was appointed to the Committee on 25 February 2015 and became the 
Chair of the Committee on 23 April 2015.
2 
Mike Wareing stepped down as Chair of the Committee on 23 April 2015.
During the year, the Committee invited the Chairman of the Board, CEO, 
CFO, Group Director of Financial Control, Head of IA&A, the PwC lead audit 
partner, other representatives from PwC, and other senior management to 
attend their meetings. 
At least twice a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, the 
Committee meet separately with the PwC lead audit partner and the Head 
of IA&A, to give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive 
management being present. 
Effectiveness
During the year, an externally facilitated performance review was undertaken 
in relation to the Board and its committees, by Armstrong Bonham Carter 
LLP. The Committee discussed the findings of the review in the February 
2016 meeting, and considered the findings alongside their priorities for 2016. 
The Committee received positive feedback from Board members, and was 
considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2015. 
Key issues and activities
Feb Apr Jul Oct Nov Dec
 Financial statements and reports
Full year results 
Half year results 
Fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment
 External audit
Independence, objectivity and effectiveness 
of the external auditor
Appointment recommendation to the Board
Policy on the provision of non-audit services 
Approval of non-audit fees
External audit scope and fees
External auditors’ full year report 
External auditors’ half year report 
Audit tender
 Internal audit
Effectiveness review of internal audit
Internal audit report
Annual internal audit plan
 Governance, risk and assurance
Risk management report
Risk management framework 
Internal controls
IT controls, including cyber security
LCM
Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud
 Other
Updates on accounting and corporate  
governance developments
T erms of Reference 
Effectiveness of the Committee
Financial statements and reports
26%
Other
15%
Governance, risk
and assurance
16%
Internal audit
12%
External audit
31%
Allocation of time (%)  54
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Audit Committee Report continued
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements 
and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them. The Committee identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2015 financial 
statements, on account of the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
Area of focus Area of issue Role of the Committee Conclusion
Revenue/contract 
accounting
Revenue and profit recognition on 
contracts (refer to note 1 of the 
Group Financial Statements)
The Committee debated accounting policies, 
judgements on material contracts and external 
audit reviews. 
A key focus for the Committee has been the 
revenue and profit recognition on the Group’s 
air-to-air refuelling programmes, with regular 
updates being provided to the Committee by 
Sector management. 
The Committee was satisfied that 
accounting and judgements were 
reasonable and appropriate. 
Revenue and profit cut-off 
error impacting the 2015 results, 
identified within one business unit 
(refer to the Principal Risks section 
on page 32)
The Committee reviewed the work undertaken  
by the internal and external audit teams and by 
management, to ensure that the issue was fully 
investigated and appropriate adjustments made  
to the financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied that 
the work undertaken was sufficient 
and that potential misstatements 
had been identified and corrected 
in the financial statements.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment assessment 
(refer to note 10)
The Committee challenged internal papers 
covering the basis and quantum of valuation, 
including explanations for any significant 
changes from those used in previous years. 
The Committee was satisfied 
that these were reasonable and 
appropriate, and that the 
disclosures made were appropriate. 
Acquired intangibles Recoverability of acquired 
intangibles (refer to note 27)
The Committee reviewed a report from 
management, which explained the 
methodology used and the rationale for 
the assumptions made. 
The Committee was satisfied 
that these were reasonable 
and appropriate, and that the 
disclosures made were appropriate.
Inventory Accounting for inventory provisions 
(refer to note 13)
The Committee challenged internal papers 
covering the basis and quantum of valuation.
The Committee considered that 
accounting and provisions were 
appropriate.
Tax Accounting for uncertain 
tax positions (refer to 
notes 6 and 20)
The Committee reviewed explanatory papers 
from management, which included a review 
of the appropriateness of the tax provisions. 
The Group Tax Director also attended a 
Committee meeting to discuss how the 
Group manages its tax risks.
The Committee was satisfied that 
the judgements and estimates 
were reasonable and appropriate.
Non-underlying costs Identification and measurement of  
non-underlying costs 
(refer to note 2)
The Committee reviewed a report from 
management, which explained the 
methodology used and the rationale for the 
assumptions made.
 
The Committee was satisfied that 
accounting and judgements were 
reasonable and appropriate.
Acquisitions/disposals Acquisition and disposal accounting 
(refer to notes 27 and 28)
The Committee discussed accounting policies, 
management reports, detailed contract 
appraisals, legal advice, and reviews by internal 
and external audit. 
A key focus for the Committee has been the 
adjustments to the Aeroflex opening balance.
The Committee considered that 
accounting and provisions were 
appropriate. 55
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Policy on the provision of non-audit services 
In July 2015, the Committee approved a revised policy on the provision 
of non-audit services for recommendation to the Board. The policy was 
amended in anticipation of the implementation of EU legislation. The 
revised policy states, as a default position, that the external auditors will 
not be engaged to provide any element of non-audit services. However, 
the Committee recognises that there may be some non-audit services 
for which the Group might wish to use the external auditors. In these 
circumstances, the deciding factor is that there is a clear differentiation for 
the work concerned, between the audit firm and other potential providers 
of the work. Furthermore, the work must be permitted under the relevant 
regulations and must not impinge on the independence of the audit firm. 
A decision to use the audit firm for non-audit work must also be approved 
in advance of the use of the services, by: the CFO for fees up to £50,000; 
the CFO in conjunction with the Chair of the Audit Committee for fees 
between £50,000 and £150,000; and the Audit Committee, as a whole, 
for fees over £150,000. As a result of the new policy and the outcome of 
the external audit tender, the existing provision of non-audit services will 
progressively transition away from the external auditors, PwC, during 2016. 
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, in our opinion, 
the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable, 
to enable shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. To assist our assessment, the Committee, supported by management, 
has adopted a detailed process for the preparation and adoption of the Annual 
Report and Accounts (outlined below).
Planning  
(Oct/Nov/Dec)
Initial content 
production (Jan)
Review and 
sign off (Feb)
Consider/prepare content 
not dependent on year-
end results, e.g.: business 
model and strategy.
Start completing and 
collating performance 
related content.
Confirmation 
from contributors 
as to completeness 
of input.
Design concept and key 
messages considered. 
Appropriate review 
of full content, 
for consistency, 
completeness 
and messaging.
Identify material events/
performance issues to be 
reported.
Sign off by section 
owners, with 
verification.
Consider new regulations 
and consistency with key 
messages and KPIs.
Consider level of
assurance obtained
over non-financial
information in the 
Annual Report and 
Accounts.
Audit Committee 
to formally report 
to the Board on 
how it has satisfied 
itself that the Annual 
Report and Accounts 
is fair, balanced and 
understandable. 
Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2015 
Annual Report and Accounts was representative of the year and presents a fair, 
balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
External audit
The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the external auditors 
PwC, including the approving of fees, and makes recommendations to the 
Board on their appointment and re-appointment. The total fees paid to PwC in 
the year ended 31 December 2015 equal £3.6m, with non-audit fees of £1.4m 
representing 38.9% of the total. An analysis of the fees paid to the external 
auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work during the year can be found 
in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements. 
PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Group 
accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the course of their 
audit work. None were found or reported in 2015. The Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the members of the Company can be found on pages 72 and 119.
External audit plan
PwC’s presentation of their audit plan to the Committee, set out the scope and 
objectives of the audit, together with an overview of the planned approach, an 
assessment of the Group’s risks and controls, and proposed areas of audit focus. 
In July and December 2015, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, 
areas of responsibility and scope of the December 2015 year-end audit. 
External auditor independence and objectivity 
The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and 
monitoring of the Company’s policies on external audit, which are designed 
to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors. These 
policies set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors 
for non-audit work and regulate the appointment by the Group of former 
employees of PwC. 
In addition to the independence review as part of the external audit tender 
process, PwC has provided specific assurance and the Committee has 
considered the arrangements and safeguards that PwC has in place to maintain 
its independence and objectivity, including an internal process to pre-approve 
provision of non-audit services and the use of separate teams where non-audit 
services are being provided to the Group. 
The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain the objectivity 
of the audit process; these stipulate a five-year rotation policy in relation to the 
senior engagement auditor. Pauline Campbell replaced Stuart Watson as lead 
audit partner in 2014. 
The Committee continues to be satisfied that PwC, the external auditors, remain 
independent and objective.
Total fees paid to the external auditors (2014) 
Audit fees £2.2m (40.7%) Non-audit fees £3.2m (59.3%)
Total fees paid to the external auditors (2015) 
Audit fees £2.2m (61.1%) Non-audit fees £1.4m (38.9%) 56
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
External auditor effectiveness and re-appointment
The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the external 
auditors, including feedback from the finance teams at many of the operating 
companies. The 2015 review was conducted in February 2016 and overall, 
the feedback was positive. Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of 
the Committee, the relationship with the external auditors works well, and 
the Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
FRC Audit Quality Review
The FRC selected Cobham’s 2014 audit files for review by their Audit Quality 
Review (AQR) T eam. The review covered the Group audit (including central 
planning), and selected aspects of the work performed by PwC at a UK entity 
level. The Committee discussed the findings of the review with PwC, who 
considered all of the matters raised in the AQR report in the planning and 
execution of the 2015 year-end audit. 
Internal Audit and Assurance
In February 2015, the Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s Internal Audit and Assurance function, taking into account the 
views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, 
proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology. 
The Committee approved the appointment of a new Head of IA&A, effective 
April 2015. The Head of IA&A attended every scheduled Committee meeting. 
With effect from November 2015 the direct reporting line of the Head of IA&A 
became the Committee Chair. Following an Internal Audit Effectiveness Review 
by the new Head of IA&A, which identified that the function was under 
resourced, the Committee provided support to the further development of 
the Internal Audit team, with an increase to the size of the team, including 
the addition of a new IT Internal Audit Manager, to be recruited in early 2016. 
The findings of each Internal Audit review are summarised and the Committee 
focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans in 
place to address them. Particular areas of focus during 2015 included the 
implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the businesses and 
results of the Internal Audit reviews of the former Aeroflex sites. The Committee 
also received regular updates against the 2015 Internal Audit Programme 
throughout the year.
The Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2016, including the 
proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources. The 2016 Plan 
was prepared considering a number of factors, including the principal risks of the 
Group. The key points of focus in the 2016 Plan are: 
 − A refresh of Internal Financial Controls Assurance; 
 − Increased monitoring of controls and actions; 
 − Stronger alignment with the GRA project;
 − To drive continued improvement in the Group’s assurance mapping process 
across the three lines of assurance;
 − Increasing focus on working capital management, in particular inventory 
management; 
 − The development and implementation of an IT Assurance programme; and 
 − The development and implementation of a revised audit approach to LCM.
Audit Committee Report continued
External audit tender process
The Committee confirmed in the Group’s 2014 Annual Report and 
Accounts that it was intending to conduct an audit tender during 2015 with a 
view to appointing a new firm, or reappointing PwC, for the 2016 year end, in 
response to the adoption of the Audit Directive (2014/56/EU) by the European 
Parliament on 3 April 2014, which introduced a requirement for ‘public interest 
entities’ to retender their audits at least every ten years, and to change the 
auditor at least every 20 years, In April 2015, a request for proposal was issued 
to the four major auditing firms, including the incumbent PwC, to provide the 
following external audit and audit-related services: 
 − The audit of Cobham’s parent company financial statements; 
 − The audit of the Group financial statements and those of 
certain subsidiaries; 
 − To report, in the Annual Report and Accounts, whether certain 
remuneration and governance disclosures were in accordance 
with applicable legislation and rules/regulations; and
 − To review the interim financial statements, and controls reporting 
in various locations. 
The four firms participating in the tender process were required to submit 
their proposals against the following criteria: 
 − Organisation and capability, including the firm’s global coverage, 
industry experience and technical expertise, particularly of operating 
in an SSA environment in the US, scope coverage and insight into future 
developments likely to affect the Group’s business; 
 − Audit approach and delivery, including knowledge of the business, 
audit planning process, quality of accounting judgements, liaison with 
and reliance upon Internal Audit, reliance upon the Group’s systems of 
accounting and internal controls, and transition experience; 
 − Audit quality, including quality assurance, audit effectiveness, audit 
reporting, independence, objectivity, process improvement and 
added value; 
 − Resourcing and engagement team, including quality and experience of 
proposed audit team, skills and personal qualities of lead audit partners, 
team structure and responsiveness; and 
 − Fees and terms.
The tender process involved setting up a data room to provide the financial 
and other data to the firms on which to base their written proposals, site 
visits to a representative location within each of the Group’s four sectors 
and meetings with the Sector finance leads and the functional heads within 
finance, treasury and tax, legal, internal audit, programme management and 
business integration. Feedback from all of these meetings was provided to 
the Committee. The firms also had meetings with certain members of the 
Committee and the Executive Directors. 
Following the above activity, the four firms delivered their comprehensive 
written proposals to the Committee, who undertook a detailed and formal 
review, and concluded that PwC and Ernst & Young potentially offered 
the best fit with the Company’s requirements for their external auditors. 
Accordingly, both firms were invited to present to the Committee, to allow 
the Committee to identify the preferred candidate. 
Following the presentations, the Committee unanimously agreed to recommend 
that the Board propose to shareholders that PwC be re-appointed as the 
Group’s auditors for the 2016 audit. In reaching this decision, the Committee 
was mindful that they should set a higher hurdle for the re-appointment of 
the incumbent firm than for a new firm, and believe that this was achieved. 
Factors which the Committee took into account in reaching our decision 
included that the Chair was new to the Cobham Board and to the position 
of Audit Committee Chair, that the lead audit partner was also relatively new 
and supported by a strong team, including two new partners for the 2015  
year-end audit. The Committee also took account of a number of business 
issues where the retention of PwC’s knowledge and experience would be 
helpful, including the air-to-air refuelling programmes and the roll-out of the 
Group’s updated business operating system, CBOS. 
While the regulations surrounding auditor rotation would allow PwC to 
remain in post until the conclusion of the 2020 audit, the Committee’s current 
intention is to re-tender in 2018, for the 2019 audit, to coincide with the next 
rotation of the PwC lead audit partner, Pauline Campbell. The Committee will 
not be inviting PwC to tender in 2018.  57
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Risk management and internal controls 
The Board has ultimate accountability for the execution of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems. The Executive Risk Committee is 
responsible for overseeing the execution of risk management throughout the 
Group. The Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring and reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems 
to the Committee, who provide reports on a regular basis to the Board. 
The Committee’s review covers all material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and is 
designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and internal 
control policies and procedures, which are embedded in the business, have 
operated effectively in the review period. The principal elements, the three 
lines of assurance, are outlined on page 32. 
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control. Sector 
Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, including the 
maintenance of business unit and Sector risk registers, exist to identify and 
manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments. The Executive 
Risk Committee undertakes a top level review of significant risks and the CEO 
reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation. 
In 2014, a significant project was commenced to further enhance the Group’s 
governance, risk and assurance framework. The Committee continued to provide 
oversight throughout 2015, and has been encouraged by progress to date. The 
Committee will continue to monitor the initiative throughout 2016, where the 
focus will move to review the key governance policies and assurance given. 
Further information on the Group’s principal risks and the risk management 
process may be found on pages 32 to 37.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which have been 
developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and 
opportunities to which it is exposed. This includes:
 − The preparation of the Strategic Plan; 
 − A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is 
approved by the Board;
 − The monthly review and revision of financial forecasts for the year;
 − The monitoring of financial performance; 
 − The monitoring of project and programme management, through LCM; and 
 − The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management. 
Delegations and other controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and 
the Group Finance Manual. Specifically with regard to the financial reporting 
process and the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, the system 
includes a semi-annual representation letter from all business units. Included 
in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial reporting is based 
upon reliable data and that the results are properly stated in accordance with 
Group policies. 
The Committee believes that the current arrangements consisting of the 
half yearly risk assessment process, a programme of internal financial and 
other control reviews by the Internal Audit function, other experienced 
internal teams, external experts and business reviews carried out by the CEO 
and CFO and a process of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all 
business units, provides appropriate coverage of the Group’s activities. Where 
weaknesses have been identified, plans for remedying them are developed 
and progress monitored. 
Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud
Details of the Cobham Code of Business Conduct and the mechanisms, 
including those maintained by independent third parties, by which suspected 
violations of the Code are raised and independently investigated, are provided 
in the CR&S section of this report, on pages 38 and 39. The Committee regularly 
received reports providing details of these cases, their outcome, and the 
corrective actions taken. 
Alan Semple
Audit Committee Chair
2 March 2016 58
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Directors’ Remuneration Report
FOCUSING REMUNERA TION
FRAMEWORK TO SUPPORT
DELIVERY OF OPERA TIONAL
PERFORMANCE
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to deliver my report as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
There are no proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy so no binding 
vote will be put forward at the 2016 AGM. The current policy, as approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM, can be accessed on Cobham’s website and is  
re-produced in summary on page 60. A full review of the policy will be undertaken 
during 2016 for shareholders to vote on at the 2017 AGM. This review will take 
into account the ongoing implementation of Cobham’s strategy and address the 
evolving remuneration requirements across Cobham’s diverse portfolio of short 
and long cycle businesses. 
Whilst the Group delivered a robust financial performance in 2015, we did not 
meet some of the financial targets set at the start of the year and this is reflected 
in the limited payouts under the 2015 remuneration arrangements. 
In determining the level of remuneration for this year, the Committee has 
reviewed both the financial and operational performance of the Group and the 
Sectors. We have focused on rewarding specific improvements in operational 
delivery and programme execution that have directly contributed to the growth 
in EPS in 2015. 
In setting remuneration targets for 2016, the Committee has taken into 
account the challenges in our commercial short cycle markets whilst focusing 
on establishing targets that will continue to incentivise the continuing drive 
for improvements in operational execution, growth in EPS and free cash 
flow generation. 
“Setting appropriate 
remuneration targets in 
current market conditions 
remains a key priority.”
Remuneration philosophy underpinning decisions 
 − The overall remuneration philosophy continues to be linked to the long term 
success of the Company. This is achieved by aiming to be market competitive 
to attract and retain executives of the quality required to deliver the Group’s 
strategy, whilst taking into account an individual’s experience and personal 
contribution to the Group’s Strategic Plan.
 − Paying for performance is the guiding principle of Cobham’s T otal Compensation 
Philosophy. Employees have their performance and development needs 
reviewed by their line manager under our PDR system. Salary and any bonus 
payments are linked to performance as assessed under this system. 
 − Cobham’s intent is to set pay within a market competitive range reflecting 
performance achieved, by both the individual and the Group. For strong 
performance, actual total compensation delivered is targeted at the  
market median. 
The key challenges and issues that the Committee addressed during 
the year
 − Changes made to the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors 
were realigned, as described in last year’s report, to reflect, in part, the larger 
Group following the Aeroflex acquisition and their significant contribution 
to≈the Group during the previous year. As a result the base salary increases 
for the CEO and CFO were set at 5.0% and 6.8% respectively. 
 − The 2015 AIP was re-designed, in line with policy, to simplify the short term 
bonus arrangements, weighting 75% of any payout towards financial targets 
and the remaining 25% based on personal objectives aligned to the delivery 
of strategic objectives. 
 − The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the CEO was increased from 
120% of salary to 150% of salary, and for the CFO, from 100% of salary to  
120% of salary.  59
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
How company performance during the year is reflected in the 
remuneration outcome
 − The Company delivered robust performance in 2015. Cobham has a diverse 
portfolio of businesses and while some of the businesses performed well, 
our≈short cycle businesses faced challenging market conditions. 
 − The Company has made excellent progress in integrating the Aeroflex 
businesses with total cost and benefits in line with original expectations.
 − We have also proactively streamlined the portfolio with three divestments 
in 2015 and the divestment of the surveillance business completed in 
January 2016, helping the Group reduce complexity and focus on areas of 
core capability. 
 − Significant operational progress was achieved, as set out on pages 6 and 7 , 
with major improvements in programme execution and delivery, particularly 
in Mission Systems.
 − Performance on cash conversion was disappointing but reflects continuing 
investment including increases in PV and capital expenditure, and an outflow 
of working capital. Improving cash conversion and free cash flow generation 
will be a key focus in the 2016 remuneration framework. 
 − While acceptable progress was made in 2015, the financial targets for the 
revenue growth and cash flow targets under the AIP have not been met, 
with operating profit performance being between threshold and target. 
 − Revenue growth, operating profit and cash flow targets accounted for 75% 
of the maximum AIP bonus opportunity and the level of achievement has 
resulted in a payout of 1 1.2% of maximum (12.6% and 10. 1% of salary) for 
the CEO and CFO respectively. 
 − 25% of the maximum AIP opportunity was based on personal objectives 
aligned with the implementation of strategy. In reviewing individual 
performance of the CEO and CFO, the Committee has determined that 
a payout of 40% of maximum (15.0% of salary) for the CEO and 25% of 
maximum (7 .5% of salary) for the CFO was fair in the context of the Group’s 
performance in 2015. 
 − For the CEO, 25% of the bonus earned will be deferred into shares, as the 
CFO has given notice he will not receive the deferred portion of his bonus. 
 − In addition, there was no payout under the 201 3 Performance Share Plan 
as the threshold level of EPS was not met and TSR performance was below 
median over the three years performance period resulting in awards lapsing. 
The intended remuneration arrangements for the current year  
and the key future issues to be addressed by the Committee
 − Remuneration arrangements for 2016 have been developed in line with 
the≈Remuneration Policy.
 − Base salary increase for the CEO, effective 1 March 2016, has been set at 
2.5%. No salary increase will be awarded to the CFO as he has given his notice. 
 − The AIP arrangements for 2016 have also been reviewed and the metrics 
and weightings revised to 40% underlying operating profit, 40% free cash 
flow generation and 20% personal strategic measures. 
 − LTI arrangements for awards to be made in 2016 remain unchanged. 
 − In line with the Board’s recommendation to re-appoint the Chairman for 
a further term of three years, the Committee has reviewed his fee as there 
has been no increase since his appointment in 2010. T aking into account the 
performance of the Group over the last six years and the appropriate external 
benchmarks, the Committee has determined that a fee of £280,000 per 
annum, representing an increase of 3.7%, is appropriate. 
 − There has been no increase in Non-executive Director fees in 2015 and none 
are proposed in 2016. 
A summary of any discretion applied by the Committee during 
the year
There has been no discretion applied during the year.
Comment on stakeholder engagement conducted during the year
During March 2015, I wrote to the top 20 shareholders to provide details of 
changes made to the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors.  
The changes made were all within the Remuneration Policy and were fully 
disclosed in last year’s report.
Conclusion
Taking into account the Group’s overall performance in 2015, the Committee 
believe the remuneration awarded to the Executive Directors is fair in the 
context≈of shareholder value creation and that the remuneration targets 
for 2016 have been set appropriately to incentivise further improvements 
in financial performance and sustainable growth. 
Role and focus
The Remuneration Committee’s main duties are to: 
 − Make recommendations to the Board on the Group’s policies on  
Executive Directors’ remuneration and ensure alignment to the Group’s 
Strategic Plan; and
 − Determine, on the Board’s behalf, the specific remuneration packages of 
the Chairman, Executive Directors, Group Executive and Company Secretary.
Membership and attendance
Four Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year,  
attended as follows:
Alison Wood (Chair)
Birgit Nørgaard 
Mark Ronald 
Attended Unable to attend
There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during the reporting 
period. Membership of the Committee will change in 2016 as Mark Ronald stands 
down from the Board, Mike Wareing will move from the Audit Committee to bring 
his experience to the Remuneration Committee. 
Other attendees
Executive Vice President HR, Senior Vice President Compensation and Benefits, 
Deloitte LLP, and Company Secretary. The CEO and the Chairman of the Board 
attend by invitation.
No individual is present in meetings relating to decisions around their own 
remuneration. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website or on application to the Company Secretary.
Key issues and activities
Matters considered by the Committee during 2015 were:
Feb Jul Dec Dec
Committee only sessions with advisers
Compensation awards – previous year
Compensation awards – current year
LTI performance dashboards
Chairman remuneration
Group Executive objectives
Remuneration strategy
AIP review
LTI review
Other
Updates on corporate  
governance developments
T erms of reference 
Effectiveness of the advisers
Remuneration Report review
Approval of Executive Share Option Scheme, 
Conditional Share Plan and Sharesave – new rules
Committee work planning 60
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Key elements Key features How it was implemented in 2015
Base salary Reviewed annually with changes typically effective from 1 March.
Maximum salary increases typically in line with the outcomes of the 
annual review and typically in line with the average increase for the 
wider workforce.
Increases awarded on 1 March 2015: 
CEO – 5%
CFO – 6.8%
The Annual Incentive 
Plan (AIP) is designed to 
drive and reward annual 
performance against 
financial and operational 
KPIs as well as individual 
objectives, which are 
directly linked to the 
Group’s strategic plan. 
Cash bonus Maximum opportunity under the Policy is 150% of salary.
For target performance, 50% of maximum bonus opportunity will 
be received.
Measured over a one year performance period based on a 
combination of financial and individual metrics.
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
2015 awards:
CEO – 150% of base pay opportunity
CFO – 120% of base pay opportunity
Payments of £209,173 and £77,299 
have been earned by the CEO and 
CFO respectively. 
Deferred bonus 75% paid in cash and up to 25% mandatorily deferred into company 
shares for a period of three years.
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
25% of the CEO’s AIP has been put into 
deferred share awards with a three year 
vesting period. The CFO will not receive 
the deferred portion of his AIP as he has 
given notice. 
L TI – the Performance 
Share Plans (PSP) and 
the Bonus Co-Investment 
Plan (BCP) are designed 
to drive sustainable 
profitable growth and align 
Executive Directors with 
shareholders’ interests.
LTI – PSP PSP allows for conditional share awards or nil-cost options up to 
150% of base salary may be granted annually. 
Threshold level of vesting is 16.7% of maximum award. 
Performance assessed over more than one year, usually three years 
against key financial metrics. 
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
Awards of 150% of salary were made in 
2015 with performance conditions as set 
out on page 63.
Matching shares – BCP An additional 25% of the annual bonus can be voluntarily deferred 
into BCP. 
Matching awards on up to 50% of bonus:
Maximum 1:1
Threshold 0.5:1
Performance assessed over more than one year, usually three years 
against key financial metrics.
Malus and clawback provisions are in.
BCP awards were last awarded in 2014 and 
there is no intention for further awards to 
be made in future.
Share Ownership 
Guidelines
There is a requirement to retain a percentage of salary in shares, which 
must be built up from shares vesting from executive incentive plans. 
The CEO is required to retain 200% of  
annual salary, and the CFO, 100%.
Our remuneration structure 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the Policy) set out in our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts was approved by over 98% of our shareholders at our AGM held 
on 24 April 2014; the Policy remains unchanged. The full Policy is available on the Company’s website. As context for the rest of this report, the main elements of 
the Policy, as well as how the policy was implemented during the year, are summarised below:
Introduction
Aligning remuneration to deliver operational performance
We continue to take a disciplined approach to ensure that our remuneration 
strategy supports the delivery of Cobham’s strategy and delivery of both the 
long and the short term operational and financial priorities. Our incentive 
framework is designed to underpin the delivery of sustainable growth in 
earnings and shareholder value together with the generation of free cash flow. 
The 2015 AIP framework supports our priorities of driving continuous 
improvement in operational excellence and programme execution with 
inclusion of operational KPIs and by directly targeting growth in trading profit 
and free cash flow. In addition, individual objectives were set as part of the 2015 
AIP to specifically address the strategic development of the Group’s portfolio, 
particularly seeking to rationalise our portfolio by making selected divestments.
In 2016, the AIP will continue to focus on delivering operational performance 
to meet the strategic actions. As described on page 59, we have recalibrated 
the measures and weightings with further emphasis being given to achieving 
key delivery measures whilst retaining a strong focus on the key financial 
objectives of the Group, particularly improved cash flow generation.
The LTI plans are designed to encourage the necessary actions and leadership 
behaviours to promote investment in innovation, development of required 
technical skills and leadership capabilities, and accelerating the adoption of 
our technologies to underpin the delivery of long term sustainable growth 
in shareholder value. 61
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Single total figure table 
£k
 Salary  
and fees
 Taxable  
benefits AIP LTI Pensions Total
Bob Murphy
2015 756 210 209 – 198 1,373
2014 669 174 – 228 125 1,196
Simon Nicholls
2015 435 21 58
1
73 87 674
2014 410 20 – 108 83 621
1
Account taken for the deferred portion not paid. 
Single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director  
(audited information)
2015 2015 2014 2014
Bob Murphy Simon Nicholls
2000
1500
1000
500
0 
£1,373
 
  
 
  
  
 Salary and fees
Taxable benefits
 AIP
LTI
Pensions
£k
£1,196
£674
£621
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of 
remuneration (audited information)
The Company has obtained written confirmation from each Director that they 
have disclosed all other items in the nature of remuneration. 
 Salary and fees
Policy: Reviewed annually with changes typically effective from 1 March.
Maximum salary increases typically in line with the outcomes of the annual 
review and typically in line with the average increase for the wider workforce.
 
Bob Murphy’s employment terms and conditions are based on US law and his 
salary payments are made in US dollars and have been converted to sterling for 
tax purposes. These are the figures used in the above table. Bob’s 2015 salary, 
effective from 1 March 2015, was US$1,158,600. 
Simon Nicholls’ 2015 salary, effective from 1 March 2015, was £440,000 
per annum.
These salary increases were above the average increase provided to the wider 
workforce of c.3.0% but were considered to be appropriate in the context of: 
the successful acquisition of Aeroflex, which resulted in an increase to the size 
and complexity of the Group, and subsequently the scope of the two executive’s 
roles; the strategic progress during the course of 2014; and the performance and 
contribution of the two Executive Directors in driving the business forward.
 Taxable benefits
The taxable benefit figures are as follows:
Benefit
Bob Murphy  
£k
Simon Nicholls  
£k
Car and private petrol allowance 16 18
Private medical insurance, disability 
cover and life insurance 42 2
Expatriation allowance 132 –
Allowance to cover financial/tax advice 20 1
Total 210 21
Note:
  Bob Murphy’s employment terms and conditions allow for an annual expatriation 
allowance. 
 Annual Incentive Plan
Policy:
Cash bonus Maximum opportunity under the Policy is 150% of salary. 
For target performance, 50% of maximum bonus 
opportunity will be received.
Measured over a one year performance period based on 
a combination of financial and individual metrics. 
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
Deferred 
bonus
75% paid in cash and up to 25% mandatorily deferred 
into company shares for a period of three years. 
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
The 2015 AIP supports the overall strategy of the Company through a balance 
of financial and other key strategic measures, at Group, Sector and business unit 
level. It is a simplified plan that incentivises year-on-year (organic) growth. In 
addition, it provides greater line of sight through the business to, and alignment 
with, three key financial metrics (Revenue Growth, Operating Profit  
and Cash) and key operational objectives.
In setting the performance levels for the 2015 AIP, the Committee considered 
the budget/forecast approved by the Board for the relevant year, and set 
threshold and maximum targets at appropriately stretching levels either side 
of the budget. 
Details of the AIP measures, weightings and targets as well as performance 
against each of the targets is provided in the table below: 
Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum
Revenue  
Growth (£m)
25%
2,162.3
(3% growth)
2,196.7
(4% growth)
2,235.0
(5% growth)
Underlying  
Operating Profit (£m)
25% 325.4 352.2 379.0
Cash  
Conversion (£m)
25% 301.1 319.6 342.8 
Key strategic 
measures
25% 1,1 PDR rating 2,2 PDR rating 3,3 PDR rating
The annual report on remuneration 62
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Group Revenue Growth: Revenue growth stated at constant translation 
exchange rates excluding the incremental effect of acquisitions and 
divestments. The quoted targets for total revenue represent growth of 3%, 
4% and 5% in the legacy Cobham businesses and specific absolute targets 
for the Aeroflex businesses.
Group Underlying Operating Profit: Underlying Operating Profit before 
interest and tax at the Group level.
Group Cash Conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage 
of underlying operating profit excluding profit from joint ventures.
For 2015, the AIP adopted an additive formula whereby performance against 
the metrics outlined above were assessed against the specific financial targets 
and, for the key strategic measures, an assessment of an individual’s achievement 
against personal objectives. Each of the metrics has a 25% weighting. 
The financial element of AIP paid out at 11.2% of the maximum as the Group 
did not meet its Revenue Growth or Cash Conversion targets in 2015 and only 
achieved a limited payout versus the Underlying Operating Profit target based 
on delivery of £334.7m (which was adjusted to reflect the impact of divestments 
in 2015, to ensure measurement on a like-for-like basis). 
The personal performance element paid out at 40.0% of maximum 
(15.0% of salary) for the CEO and 25% of maximum (7.5% of salary) for the 
CFO, reflecting their individual contributions to delivering the progress on 
the Aeroflex acquisition, executing on divestments in a timely manner and 
providing leadership to support the improvements in operational delivery. 
This resulted in a total bonus payment of 27.6% of salary for the CEO and 
17.7% of salary for the CFO. However, the 25% of bonus that would normally 
be deferred into shares will not be received by the CFO as he has given notice. 
 Long term incentives
Policy: PSP allows for conditional share awards or nil-cost options up to 150% 
of base salary may be granted annually. 
Threshold level of vesting is 16.7% of maximum award. 
Performance assessed over more than one year, usually three years, against 
key financial metrics. 
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
The PSP is designed to drive sustainable profitable growth in shareholder value 
and align Executive Directors with shareholders’ interests.
PSP awards vesting in 2015
The performance targets for the PSP awarded in 2013 are set out below:
Metric Weighting Performance
Award vesting at 
that level % Result
TSR 33% Threshold 
(Index)
16.7% Performance 
targets for the 
TSR have not 
been met
Maximum 
(Index +10%)
100%
EPS 33% Threshold (3% 
per annum)
16.7% Performance 
targets for the 
EPS have not 
been met 
Maximum 
(10% per 
annum)
100%
Cash 
Conversion
33% Threshold 
(90% per 
annum)
16.7% Performance 
targets for cash 
conversion 
have not 
been met
Maximum 
(Over or above 
100% per 
annum)
100%
EPS and cash conversion are defined in the KPI definitions on page 132.
  
The performance targets for the PSP were not met for the three performance 
years ended on 31 December 2015 therefore none of the awards made in 2013 
will result in any payout and will lapse. 
TSR Peer Group
The companies in the TSR comparator group for awards granted in 2013 were:
BAE Systems L-3 Communications   Smiths Group
Esterline  Meggitt    Teledyne Technologies
Finnmeccanica Northrop Grumman   Thales
FLIR Systems QinetiQ   Ultra Electronics
Harris  Raytheon  
ITT Industries Rockwell Collins  
There has been no change in the composition of the TSR Peer Group.
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec 
2012
31 Dec 
2014
31 Dec 
2015
31 Dec 
2013
FTSE350 Cobham
Source: Kepler Associates
TSR performance Cobham vs FTSE350
     
£
The graph above illustrates the TSR performance (share price growth plus 
dividends) of Cobham against the FTSE350 Index over the past seven years. 
The graph shows the value of £100 invested over the seven-year period ending 
31 December 2015. The FTSE350 Index was chosen as it is a recognised broad 
equity market index of which Cobham was a member during 2015 and is 
currently, as at 1 March 2016, ranked at 124th.
The LTI plans are an important element of our remuneration strategy with 
their focus on driving the longer term strategic priorities and underpinning 
the sustainable growth of the Group’s portfolio. 
Buy-out awards vesting in 2015
Simon Nicholls’ long term incentives figure covers the vesting of one award made 
to him as a buy-out award to compensate for forfeited equity from his previous 
employer as a result of leaving to join Cobham. This award, which was disclosed 
in full in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, is set out below:
Awards 
vesting
Date of 
vest
Valuation (pence per 
share)
Amount 
vested (£k)
22,882 9 March 2015 317.0 73
All buy-out shares included above have been valued at market price achieved on 
the date of vesting.
The resulting shares, after settlement of statutory deductions, have been retained 
against Mr Nicholls’ share ownership requirements. 63
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Long term incentives awarded during the financial year (audited information)
The following table sets out the awards made under the LTI plans to Executive Directors during the year.
Type of award
Basis of which  
award is made Date of award
Face value of award  
(No. of shares awarded) Performance period
Bob Murphy PSP 150% of base salary 12 March 2015 £1,158,665
(365,775)
1 January 2015 to 
31 December 2017
Simon Nicholls PSP, nil-cost options 150% of base salary 12 March 2015 £660,000
(208,353)
1 January 2015 to 
31 December 2017
Notes:
1. All awards have been made in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
2.  The face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the mid-market price of those shares for the three trading days 
immediately preceding the date of the award.
 Pensions
Policy: The Company may make a payment into a pension scheme 
(e.g. a defined contribution plan) and/or make a cash allowance payment 
set as a percentage of salary. 
The Company contributes to Bob Murphy’s retirement plan at the rate of 20%  
of his base salary. This comprises participation in two plans noted below and the 
contributions to each are shown in the table:
 − A qualified 401k plan which has limits on the level of contribution which can 
be made to it; and
 − An executive retirement plan, non-qualifying.
£k 2015 2014
Contributions to 401k plan 16 15
Contributions to executive retirement plan 182 110
Total 198 125
Simon Nicholls’ pension figure is a combined amount of £40,000 to an 
executive defined contribution plan and £46,600 paid as a cash allowance in 
lieu of additional defined contribution arrangements. Together these payments 
represent a rate of 20% of his base salary. 
Performance conditions for the PSP awarded in 2015 are set out in 
the table below:
Metric Weighting Performance
Award vesting at 
that level %
TSR 33.3% Threshold (Index) 16.7%
Maximum (Index +10%) 100%
EPS 33.3% Threshold (3% per annum) 16.7%
Maximum (10% per annum) 100%
Cash Conversion 33.3% Threshold (over 90% per annum)16.7%
Maximum (100% per annum) 100%
Notes:
1. EPS and Cash Conversion are defined in the KPI definitions on page 132.
2. The TSR Peer Group remains unchanged for the 2015 awards, see page 62. 64
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Non-executive Directors (audited information)
The 2015 remuneration and current fees of the Non-executive Directors, 
including the Chairman, are stated below:
Full year additional fees Total payable
£k
Base  
fee
Committee  
fee
Senior 
Independent 
Director 2015 2014
John Devaney 
(Chairman)
270.0 – – 270 270
Mike Wareing 55.0 2.5 10.0 69 75
Jonathan Flint 55.0 2.5 – 58 58
Mike Hagee 55.0 5.0 – 65 65
Birgit Nørgaard 55.0 2.5 – 58 39
Mark Ronald 55.0 2.5 – 62 62
Alison Wood 55.0 10.0 – 65 63
Alan Semple (from 
February 2015) 55.0 10.0 – 58 –
John Patterson  
(to April 2014) – – – – 22
Total 705 654
Notes:
1.  Non-executive Directors only receive fees under their service agreement 
and do not have any other taxable benefits, annual or long term incentives 
or pension arrangements provided by the Company. Messrs Ronald and 
Hagee received a taxable benefit in kind for financial services (tax) advice 
for the amounts of £1,450 and £1,800 respectively. 
2.  Non-executive Directors do not have a permanent place of work specified in 
their service contract, all reasonable and properly incurred expenses incurred 
in performance of duties as Board members are reimbursed by the Company.
3.  The difference between full year fee and actual is explained by an individual 
commencing or retiring during the year or prior year or by the payment of a 
fee of £5k per annum in respect of travelling time for the Directors based in 
the US, being Messrs Hagee, Ronald and Semple.
4.  All of the above Directors are members of the Nomination Committee but 
do not receive any additional fees for this role.
5.  Mike Wareing retired as Audit Committee Chair in April 2015, but remained 
on the Committee, the role was taken up by Alan Semple. 
No increase in Non-executive Director fees was awarded in 2015.
Total aggregate Directors’ fees for the year, including the Executive 
Director fees as per the single figure table on page 61, amount to 
£2,752,000 (2014: £2,471,000).
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests  
(audited information)
The interests of the Non-executive Directors and their families in ordinary  
shares were:
 31.12.15 1.1.15
John Devaney 30,000 30,000
Mike Wareing 20,000 20,000
Jonathan Flint 5,000 5,000
Mike Hagee 5,000 5,000
Birgit Nørgaard 5,000 5,000
Mark Ronald 5,000 5,000
Alison Wood 5,000 5,000
Alan Semple 5,000 -
Non-executive Directors are required, within six months of election to the Board, 
to acquire and hold a shareholding of 5,000 ordinary shares. 
Executive Directors’ share interests
The interests of the Executive Directors in share awards or share options are shown 
below (note: there are no options which have vested but not yet been exercised):
Award
Share awards 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Share awards 
subject to 
continued 
employment
Unvested  
options subject 
to performance 
awards
Bob Murphy PSP 2013 453,924 – –
BCP 2013 7,564 – –
PSP 2014 319,912 – –
BCP 2014 14,546 – –
PSP 2015 365,775 – –
Total 1,161,721 – –
Simon Nicholls Buy-out award 
2013
– 29,535 –
PSP 2013 – – 204,151
PSP 2014 – – 201,875
Deferred AIP 
2014
– 3,822 –
PSP 2015 – – 208,353
Total – 33,357 614,379 65
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Share ownership requirements
Policy: There is a requirement to retain a percentage of salary in shares, which 
must be built up from shares vesting from executive incentive plans. 
Ownership guidelines require the Executive Directors to maintain ordinary shares. 
These guidelines state that the CEO retain the value of at least two years’ salary, 
and the CFO retain the value of at least one year’s salary. In addition, the CEO and 
CFO are to retain a minimum of 50% of net vested PSP and BCP matching shares 
until the relevant shareholding level is met. There is no time frame over which 
the guidelines are required to be met and there is no requirement for Directors 
to hold these shares after leaving the Company. Both Directors have retained the 
required shares resulting from LTI vests and have complied with the guidelines in 
this respect, but have yet to meet their targets due to the length of their tenure.
Shares held by Executive Directors as at 31 December 2015 against 
share ownership
  Shares held outright
  Beneficially held shares
  Target share ownership
Bob Murphy
2015
2014
Simon Nicholls
2015
2014
Shares owned as percentage of Base Salary
100 200 050150 25 125 75 
54% 
17%
175 
68% 
22%
Bob Murphy’s holding for 2015 has reduced as a percentage of salary due to his 
salary increase, share price movement and no awards vesting during the year, 
rather than his holding reducing.
Interests at 2 March 2016, being a date no more than one month prior to the 
date of the Notice convening the AGM, were the same as at 31 December 2015.
The market price of the ordinary shares as at 31 December 2015 was 283.2 
pence per share and the closing price range during the year was 251.1 pence 
to 345.1 pence.
Dilution
The Company’s share schemes are currently funded through shares purchased 
in the market and have been since November 2010, prior to which they were 
funded through new issue shares. Funding of awards through new issue shares 
is subject to an overall dilution limit of 10% of issued share capital in any ten-year 
period. Of this, 5% may be used in connection with the Company’s discretionary 
share schemes. As of 31 December 2015, 4.0m (0.35%) and 3.0m (0.26%) shares 
have been issued pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in connection 
with all share schemes and discretionary schemes respectively. Awards that are 
made, but then lapse or are forfeit, are excluded from the calculations.
Payments to past Directors and payment for loss of office  
(audited information)
There were no payments made to past Directors or for loss of office  
during the year.
Historic CEO total remuneration
The table below shows historic CEO total remuneration, calculated on the same 
basis as that used in the single figure table on page 61.
Year CEO
CEO single  
figure of total 
remuneration (£k)
Annual  
bonus pay-out 
against maximum 
opportunity % (£k)
Long term 
incentive vesting 
rates against 
maximum 
opportunity % 
(£k)
2015 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
1,373 18.4% (209) N/A
2014 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
1,196 0.0% (Nil) N/A
2013 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
2,058 34.3% (280) N/A
2012 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
753 48.5% (182) N/A
CEO2  
Andy Stevens
1,283 45.0% (267) 58.0% (202)
2011 CEO2  
Andy Stevens
1,916 92.5% (555) 85.0% (546)
2010 CEO2  
Andy Stevens
1,478 33.5% (201) 87.0% (471)
2009 CEO1  
Allan Cook
1,496 93.0% (567) 100.0% (238)
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
The following table shows the year-on-year change in respect of the three 
remuneration elements shown in table for the CEO as compared to that of UK 
employees generally:
Remuneration element CEO Average employee per capita figure
Salary 2.5% 2.5%
Benefits 21.0% 12.8%
AIP 18.4% 53.5%
The UK payroll has been chosen for comparison as this is the location of the 
head office. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below displays the relative expenditure of the Company on various 
matters, as required (in the case of Group employees’ pay and shareholder 
distributions) by the relevant remuneration regulations: 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
682.2
608.8
220.1
204.8
122.1
108.3
138.0
96.9
£m
Aggregate 
employment 
costs of Group 
employees
Underlying 
profit after tax
DividendsPV
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
The aggregate employment cost of Group employees is detailed at note 4 
to the Group Financial Statements and includes employers’ social security and 
similar costs. Group underlying profit after tax is shown above as this is profit 
attributable to the owners of the Group, refer to note 2. Dividends are shown 
at note 7. PV relates to the amount of profit the Group spends on research 
and development, refer to note 4.  66
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the  
current financial year
Set out below is an explanation of the way the approved policy will be 
implemented in the current year.
Element 
of Directors' 
Remuneration 
Policy Change Rationale for any change
Base Pay Current salary for the CEO, 
effective from 1 March 2016, 
is £777,241 (US$1,187,534).
No salary increase awarded to 
the CFO as he has given notice.
These represent a 2.5% 
increase for the CEO, in line 
with average increases across 
the workforce. 
Chairman’s fee Fee for the Chairman of the 
Company, effective from  
1 April 2016, is £280,000. 
This represents a 3.7% 
increase in recognition of 
this being his first increase 
since appointment in 
2010, and recognising the 
performance of the Group 
over the last six years. 
Other benefits/
retirement 
benefits
No change. Not applicable.
AIP No change to maximum 
opportunity. 
The structure of the plan will 
continue to be operated on 
an additive basis. Awards will 
be assessed against the 
following metrics:
 − 40% Underlying 
Operating Profit
 − 40% Free Cash Flow 
Conversion
 − 20% Key strategic measures 
linked to personal objectives
As in previous years, 25% of any 
bonus earned will be required 
to be deferred into shares for 
a period of three years. 
Designed to continue to 
incentivise the continuing 
drive for improvements in 
operational execution and 
free cash flow generation. 
PSP No change. Awards to the 
value of 150% of salary will  
be made in March 2016. 
Performance will be equally 
weighted between EPS 
growth, relative TSR against  
a comparator group and 
cash conversion, see page 62 
for details of the performance 
targets, which remain unchanged 
from 2015. 
No award will be made to the 
CFO as he has given his notice. 
Not applicable.
Non-executive Director fees are reviewed annually and are unchanged from the 
previous year. 
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
Adviser Appointed by
Services provided 
to the Committee
Other services 
provided to 
the Company 
Deloitte LLP Remuneration 
Committee in 
November 2009
Remuneration 
strategy
Incentive design 
Market data
Tax and 
consultancy on 
the governance, 
risk and assurance 
initiative
The Committee received advice during the year from Deloitte LLP, who 
comply with the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group. 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been 
objective and independent. Deloitte’s performance is considered by the 
Committee as part of their performance evaluation. Total fees for advice 
provided to the Committee during the year amounted to £98,800 and 
were provided on a time/cost basis. Additional advice was received from 
the Executive Vice President Human Resources, Senior Vice President 
Compensation and Benefits, and the Company Secretary. 
Whilst proposals from the Committee take account of the advice received, 
the ultimate decision is made by the Committee and ratified by the Board in 
the absence of any advisers.
2015 voting at the Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 23 April 2015, shareholders voted on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014. Below are the 
results in respect of that resolution, which required a simple majority (i.e. 50%) 
of the votes cast to be in favour in order for the resolution to be passed. The 
votes ‘for’ include discretionary votes given to the Chairman of the Board. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Votes for % Votes against %
22,568,989 96.25 878,486 3.75
Votes withheld 126,272
Alison Wood 
Remuneration Committee Chair
2 March 2016 67
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Dividends
The Group’s current policy is to pay a progressive dividend increasing payments 
broadly in line with increases in earnings, with a view to rebuilding dividend cover 
over time. An interim dividend of 3.05 pence per ordinary share of 2.50 pence 
each in the capital of the Company (ordinary shares) (2014: 2.904 pence) was 
paid in November 2015. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 
8.13 pence per ordinary share (2014: 7.746 pence) payable on 27 May 2016 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register as at 29 April 2016, making a total ordinary 
dividend for the year of 11.18 pence (2014: 10.65 pence). Details of the total 
dividend paid out is covered in note 7.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Directors have the benefit of a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity 
arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The policy 
was in force at the year end and continues in force at the date of this report. 
The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at the Company’s 
expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
Directors’ interests
None of the Directors are or were materially interested in any significant contract 
during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of which are required to 
be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. Details of Directors’ 
share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 64.
Share capital
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed 
income, representing 99.9% of the total issued share capital. 
In addition, 19,700 non-redeemable 6% second cumulative preference shares 
have been issued, which represent 0.1% of total issued share capital. 
At the AGM held on 23 April 2015, the Company was authorised to purchase 
up to 113,857,590 ordinary shares. This authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the 2016 AGM. A special resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM 
to renew the authority to make market purchases of the Company’s shares up 
to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company. 
The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares. These 
powers are exercised under authority of resolutions passed at the Company’s 
AGM. No ordinary shares were issued during the current year. In the prior year, 
60,000,000 ordinary shares were created as the result of a private placing.
Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the holders of 
any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the 
Company may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such resolution 
or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision) as the Board may 
decide. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are 
corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights. Holders 
of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in 
the assets of the Company. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 
Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Subject to meeting certain thresholds, 
holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company 
or the proposal of a resolution at an AGM.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative preference shares are entitled 
to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum 
in priority to the payment of dividends on the ordinary shares. In addition, on 
a return of assets on the liquidation or otherwise of the Company, the assets 
available for distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 
6% second cumulative preference shares the amounts paid up on their shares. 
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares and 6% second 
cumulative preference shares of £1 each in the capital of the Company are 
set out in the Articles. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of 
shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote, and 
on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has 
one vote for every £1 in nominal value of the shares of which he is the holder. 
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than:
 − Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws 
or regulations;
 − Pursuant to the Company’s Code for Securities Transactions including the 
requirement on the Directors and designated employees to obtain approval 
to deal in the Company’s shares; and
 − Where a person with an interest in the Company’s shares has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Significant arrangements – change of control
Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual arrangements 
with third parties in support of the Group’s business activities which may take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid. Such contractual arrangements include supply of equipment, 
goods and services to third parties, including research, design and production. 
Such contracts and arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one or 
more of the operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements 
considered to be essential to the operation of the business of the Group as a 
whole, apart from the following:
 − The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements with banks, 
and has issued senior notes under private placements. The total amount 
owing under such agreements at the year end date is shown in note 1 7 to 
the Group Financial Statements. All agreements contain clauses such that, 
in the event of a change of control, the Company can offer to or must 
repay all such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other 
sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
 − Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company must 
seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the Company. 
There is an ancillary aircraft lease agreement under which a change of control 
may result in the termination of the lease if such event is likely to have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to perform its obligations 
under the lease.
 − Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, a change 
of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the Company’s 
shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Other Statutory Information 68
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Other Statutory Information continued
Employee share schemes – rights of control
If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP) will, on receipt of notice from the Company of any offer, compromise 
arrangement or scheme which affects shares held in the SIP, invite participants 
to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares 
held by the trustee on their behalf and/or direct how the trustee shall act in 
relation to those shares. 
The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the SIP in respect of 
which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote in respect of any 
shares which are unallocated under the SIP. 
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust which holds ordinary shares to be 
used for settlement of long term incentives and share option schemes, waive 
all rights to vote in respect of any shares they hold within the Trust.
Further information relating to change of control under the LTI arrangements 
appears within the remuneration policy table available on the Company’s website. 
Major interests in shares
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified of the following 
interests in the ordinary shares:
Number of shares 
at the date of 
notification 
Percentage at date 
of notification
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 84,290,927 7.400
Artemis Investment Management LLP 57,876,282 5.080
Prudential Group of Companies 57,676,199 Below 5.000
Royal London Asset Management Limited 34,308,326 3.013
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 35,006,700 3.075
Blackrock, Inc 58,105,999 5.100
Newton Investment Management Ltd 57,947,756 5.090
Since the year end and up to 2 March 2016, being a date not more than a month 
prior to the date of the AGM Notice, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests in the Ordinary Shares in accordance with DTR 5:
Number of shares 
at the date of 
notification 
Percentage at date 
of notification
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 56,802,511 4.989
Financial instruments
Notes 14, 21 and 23 to the Group Financial Statements and note 9 to the Parent 
Company Financial Statements contain disclosures relating to the use of financial 
instruments. The Group uses derivative financial instruments in its management 
of financial risks and does not trade in financial instruments or use complex 
financial instruments.
People
Cobham is committed to providing its employees with equal opportunities in 
a workplace free from discrimination. 
Working within a rigorous competency framework, the Company evaluates 
candidates according to their skills and abilities, irrespective of age, race, gender, 
sexual preference, religion or disability. A PDR process standardised across the 
Group, coupled with development centres, where appropriate, ensure career 
development and progression is based solely on competency. 
With regard to employees who become disabled, the Company takes all 
reasonable steps to retain them, including retraining, to enable them to 
continue their employment and career development within Cobham.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and 
development, further details can be found on page 90. During the year, the 
Group expended £138.0m (2014 £96.9m) on non-customer funded research 
and development.
Events after the balance sheet date
Since the balance sheet date, the Company has announced the departure of 
the current CFO, at some time towards the end of 2016, and the completion 
of the sale of the Surveillance businesses, refer to note 33 on page 118.
Political donations and expenditure
No contributions were made to political organisations during the current or 
prior year.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, 28 April 2016 at 
the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, UK.
The Company arranges for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent 
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The majority of Cobham’s total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (84%) come 
from its aviation activity (figure 1). Scope 1 emissions from aviation decreased 
in 2015 due to reduced activity of company owned aircraft. Scope 3 emissions 
increased, however, with growth in customer operations including the addition 
of three aircraft, new routes and extra flying activity.
Total emissions from non-aviation activities increased from 2014 due to the 
full year contribution of the former Aeroflex business, acquired in September 
2014. The former Aeroflex business is more energy intensive than the legacy 
Cobham business with increases in GHG emissions from electricity and natural 
gas consumption. 
Scope 3  76.3%
Non-aviation 6%
Aviation 94%
Scope 1  15.1%
Aviation 77%
Non-aviation 23%
Scope 2  8.6%
Aviation 0%
Non-aviation 100%
Figure 1 – 2015 GHG emissions (tCO
2
e %)
Year Aviation Non-aviation Total
Scope tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e
Scope 1 2015
*
76,963 77 23,259 23 100,223
2014 81,165 87 12,167 13 93,332 
Scope 2 2015
*
– – 56,681 100 56,681 
2014 – – 51,532 100 51,532 
Scope 3 2015 476,813 94 28,251 6 505,064
2014 443,689 95 22,161 5 465,850 
Total 2015 553,776 84 108,192 16 661,968 
2014 524,854 86 85,860 14 610,714
* Data extracted from Cobham’s Performance Summary Report, which was included 
   within KPMG LLP’s independent limited assurance scope – see page 70. 
Despite additional aviation activity in customer activity and increased emissions 
from the former Aeroflex business in 2015, Cobham’s GHG emission intensity 
(figure 2) decreased overall in all scopes. This is due to increased revenues in 
2015 being proportionally higher than associated emissions.  69
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Scope 1 emission intensity from non-aviation activities (figure 2) increased 
with the significant rise in natural gas use from the former Aeroflex business. 
Scope 3
Scope 2
Scope 1
Aviation Non-aviation
Aviation Non-aviation
Aviation Non-aviation
Figure 2 – Emissions intensity (tCO
2
e/£m)  
2014
2015
2014
2015
2014
2015
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Scope Year
Aviation 
tCO
2
e/£m
Non-aviation 
tCO
2
e/£m
Total 
tCO
2
e/£m
 % total 
change
Scope 1 2015 37 11 48 -6
2014 44 7 51
Scope 2 2015 – 27 27 -4
2014 – 28 28
Scope 3 2015 230 14 244 -3
2014 240 12 252
Cobham’s overall scope 1 emissions increased by 7% when compared to 2014. 
The former Aeroflex sites accounted for 7% of the overall scope 1 emissions 
including 50% of all GHG emissions from natural gas consumption. Cobham’s 
overall scope 2 emissions rose 10% from 2014 with the former Aeroflex sites 
accounting for 35% of all these emissions (figure 3). 
020406080100
Scope 3
Scope 2
Scope 1
Figure 3 – GHG emissions: Former Aeroflex vs Legacy Cobham 
(tCO
2
e)
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham (incl. Aviation)
Scope tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e %
Scope 1 6,772 7 93,451 93
Scope 2 19,593 35 37,088 65
Scope 3 11,503 2 493,561 98
Total 37,868 624,100
When the former Aeroflex sites are excluded, Cobham’s scope 2 emissions 
decreased by 15% compared with 2014. This decrease is attributed to the 
implementation of energy efficiency measures (such as installing energy 
efficient lighting) as well as divestment, closure and consolidation of various 
sites during the year (divestment of the energy intensive Composites business 
in November 2015, and consolidation of UK operations in the Antennas 
business). The carbon footprint of the former Aeroflex business compared 
with Legacy Cobham (excluding aviation) is shown in figure 4. In 2015, district 
heating usage by the SA TCOM business in Denmark was also included in scope 
2 emissions for the first time having been reported under scope 1 in prior years, 
and LPG use was included in scope 1 emissions for the first time. 
Figure 4 – GHG emissions: Former Aeroflex vs Legacy Cobham  
(excl. aviation) (tCO
2
e)
020406080100
Scope 3
Scope 2
Scope 1
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham
Figure 4 – GHG emissions: Former Aeroflex vs Legacy Cobham
(excl. aviation) (tCO
2
e)
Former Aeroflex Legacy Cobham (excl. Aviation)
Scope tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e
Scope 1 6,772 29% 16,487 71%
Scope 2 19,593 35% 37,088 65%
Scope 3 11,503 41% 16,747 59%
Total 37,868 70,322
Due to the nature and scale of changes to the Group, 2015 represents a new 
GHG emissions baseline against which targets will be set. Cobham’s target is to 
reduce facility energy intensity (energy consumption per £m revenue) by 10% 
year-on-year. Excluding former Aeroflex, Cobham’s energy intensity decreased 
by 11% meeting the 2014 energy intensity reduction target.
Definitions
Scope 1 comprises direct emissions from Cobham owned and controlled plant 
and equipment, including: aviation fuel, natural gas, heating oil, non-automotive 
diesel, fugitive emissions, solvent emissions and automotive fuel. 
Scope 2 comprises indirect emissions from purchased renewable and  
non-renewable electricity using a location based calculation method and 
indirect emissions from purchased district heating. 
Cobham does not yet report market based emissions for its electricity 
generation. Following the new Scope 2 guidance published in January 2015 by 
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources 
Institute, we conducted a gap analysis of our data collection process and plan 
to publish market based calculations in our 2016 report. 
Scope 3 comprises indirect emissions from non-Cobham owned and controlled 
plant and equipment, including aviation fuel and business travel (train, air and car).
Methodology and data verification
Cobham collects data annually, as per our financial year, on GHG emissions 
from its wholly owned operational subsidiaries. Cobham uses the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development, World Resources Institute Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol method as of 31 December 2014, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, 
the International Aerospace Environmental Group GHG Reporting Guidance 
for the Aerospace Industry, a supplement of the GHG Protocol and the Carbon 
Disclosure Standards Board to report its greenhouse gas emissions and defines 
its emissions boundary as those under its direct operational control.
Reported data excludes joint ventures not under Cobham’s operational control, 
sites with fewer than five people, sites leased to tenants, vacant properties being 
disposed of, and any business units that have been closed or divested during the 
course of the year for which there is less than six months of reported data.
Further information is provided at http://www.cobhamsustainability.com/.
100% of Cobham’s wholly owned operations have been reviewed internally to 
identify omissions and significant variations from the prior year. 70
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Other Statutory Information continued
Data assurance
We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake an independent limited assurance 
engagement, reporting to Cobham plc, using the assurance standards  
ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over Selected Information included in Cobham’s 
Performance Summary Report for the year ended 31 December 2015, available 
at www.cobhamsustainability.com/at-a-glance/downloads.aspx. 
Some of that Selected Information has been included here and is highlighted 
with a * symbol. KPMG LLP’s full statement is available on our website at  
www.cobhamsustainability.com/at-a-glance/downloads.aspx 
and they have provided an unqualified opinion. 
The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than a reasonable assurance engagement. In order to reach 
their opinion, they performed a range of procedures which included interviews 
with management, examination of reporting systems, sites visits to four operating 
companies, as well as specific data testing at Head Office. A summary of the work 
they performed is included within their assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, greenhouse gas quantification in 
particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information. 
It is important to read the Selected Information in the context of KPMG’s 
full limited assurance statement and the reporting criteria as set out in the 
Cobham’s reporting guidelines available at www.cobhamsustainability.com/
at-a-glance/downloads.aspx.
Further detail on Cobham’s CR&S approach, objectives and performance is also 
available on pages 38 to 41.
Compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.4 R
The table below gives the location of information required to be included in 
the Annual Report and Accounts.
Listing Rule Information Response
LR 9.8.4 (1) Amount of interest capitalised and 
amount and treatment of tax relief. 
Not applicable: no 
interest capitalised.
LR 9.8.4 (2) Information required by Listing Rule 
9.2.18 regarding the prior publication 
of unaudited financial information.
Not applicable.
LR 9.8.4 (3) Rule deleted. Not applicable.
LR 9.8.4 (4) Long-term incentive schemes 
where only participant is a Director or 
prospective director of the company 
and the arrangement is established 
specifically to facilitate the recruitment 
or retention of the director.
Not applicable: no 
such arrangement was 
entered into during the 
reporting period. 
LR 9.8.4 (5) Arrangements under which a Director 
has waived or agreed to waive 
emoluments from the company 
or any subsidiary undertaking.
Not applicable: no such 
arrangement exists. 
LR 9.8.4 (6) Agreements with a Director to waive
future emoluments.
Not applicable: no such 
agreement exists. 
LR 9.8.4 (7) Details of shares allotted during 
the period under review which have 
been allotted to existing shareholders 
in proportion to their shareholdings 
and which have not been specifically 
authorised by the Company’s 
shareholders.
Not applicable, no 
shares allotted during 
the period.
LR 9.8.4 (8) Shares allotted in major subsidiary 
undertakings during the period under 
review which have not been allotted
to existing shareholders in proportion
to their shareholdings. 
Not applicable: no 
individual subsidiary
is a major subsidiary 
undertaking as defined
by the Listing Rules.
LR 9.8.4 (9) Details of any parent undertaking’s 
participation in any placing during 
the period under review.
Not applicable: 
Cobham does not have 
a parent undertaking. 
LR 9.8.4 (10) Details of any contract of significance
(as defined by the Listing Rules) existing 
between Cobham, or any of its subsidiaries, 
in which either a director is materially 
interested or one of the parties is a 
controlling shareholder of Cobham.
Not applicable: no
such contract of 
significance exists.
LR 9.8.4 (11) Details of any contract for the provision 
of services to Cobham, or any of its 
subsidiaries, by a controlling shareholder. 
Not applicable: 
Cobham does not have 
a controlling shareholder. 
LR 9.8.4 (12) Details of any arrangement under which 
a shareholder has waived or agreed to 
waive any dividends.
The trustees of the 
employee benefit trust 
have elected to waive 
dividends, except in 
circumstances where 
they may be holding 
shares beneficially 
owned by participants. 
LR 9.8.4 (13) Details of any arrangement under
which a shareholder has agreed to
waive future dividends.
As noted above. 
LR 9.8.4 (14) Agreements with any controlling 
shareholder.
Not applicable: 
Cobham does not have 
a controlling shareholder. 
By order of the Board
Lyn Colloff
Company Secretary
2 March 2016 71
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 
42 and 43, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 − The Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
 − The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
Directors’ declaration in relation to relevant audit information
In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is 
approved, that:
 − So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Group’s auditors were unaware; and
 − He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
The Responsibility Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 
2 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2016
Simon Nicholls
Chief Financial Officer
2 March 2016
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial 
Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 (FRS 101), Reduced Disclosure 
Framework. The Company transitioned from previous United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards) to 
FRS 101 for all periods presented. Under company law, the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of the 
profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 − Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 − Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 − State whether IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements 
respectively; and
 − Prepare the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the 
Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group Financial Statements and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 72
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc
Report on the Group Financial Statements 
Our opinion
In our opinion, Cobham plc’s Group Financial Statements (the financial 
statements):
 − Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 
2015 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended;
 − Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; and
 − Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts  
(the Annual Report), comprise:
 − The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015;
 − The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
 − The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; 
 − The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended; and
 − The Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial 
statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview 
Materiality:
 − Overall Group materiality: £14m which represents 5% of underlying profit 
before tax.
Audit scope:
 − We conducted audit work in five countries covering 31 reporting units;
 − We performed full scope audits of 1 7 reporting units in the UK, Australia, 
France and Denmark;
 − Our work conducted in the US was executed at 12 reporting units where 
we completed audit procedures on specific line items such as revenue 
or inventory, and 2 further reporting units where we performed other 
limited procedures.
Areas of focus:
 − Revenue and profit recognition on contracts;
 − Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments;
 − Inventory provisioning;
 − Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs;
 − Accounting for uncertain tax provisions; and
 − Accounting for acquisitions and disposals.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of 
material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked 
at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect 
of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including 
evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented 
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, 
including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of 
focus in the following table. We have also set out how we tailored our audit 
to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 73
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Revenue and profit recognition on contracts
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee Report) and page 83 (note 1, Accounting 
policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty – contract risk 
and programme execution).
For revenue from the sale of goods, we focused on cut-off around the year end 
because material revenue transactions can occur close to that date.
The Group also has a number of significant contracts which span more than 
one accounting period. In particular, we focused on complex development 
and production contracts on aerial refuelling aircraft (including KC-46, KC-390, 
A400M and 330MRTT). The nature of much of the contracting work done by 
the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations 
and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution 
is uncertain. 
Costs incurred can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a 
result of material enhancements to the specifications originally assumed under 
the contracts. For the contracts detailed above, we focused on:
 − The recognition of significant revenue milestones which often involve 
judgement surrounding the achievement of those milestones;
 − The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from customer claims 
which are subject to commercial negotiation;
 − Whether contracts with the same customer should be accounted for as 
separate or linked;
 − Whether the profit recognised on revenue in the year is appropriate; and
 − Whether associated assets held on the balance sheet (work in progress 
and accrued income) are recoverable or whether a contract loss provision 
should be recorded.
We tested the recognition of revenue transactions close to the period end 
to establish whether they were recorded in the correct period. This included 
agreement to external shipping evidence or authorised milestone documentation, 
with customer acceptance where appropriate. Misstatements identified were 
discussed with management and corrected within the financial statements. 
Additional cut-off testing was performed in the businesses where misstatements 
were identified to check that the correction adjustments were correct. We are 
satisfied that the adjustments made were materially correct. 
We assessed, through reviews of significant contracts, the basis of profit recognition 
on the Group’s significant contracts, together with whether it is appropriate to 
account for them as separate or linked contracts. We evaluated the accounting in 
the context of the Group accounting policies and contract terms. We found the 
accounting, in all material respects, to be in accordance with the policies and 
contract terms.
We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions behind estimated costs 
to complete by considering management’s track record of achieving estimates, 
meeting with engineering staff regarding project estimates, confirming the basis 
of overhead rates used and obtaining purchase orders for materials. We found 
the assumptions to be supported by the evidence we examined.
We agreed total contracted revenue to either original signed customer contracts, 
approved change orders or to evidence of customer discussions and agreements. 
We evaluated the reasonableness of estimated revenue through a review of, and 
discussion on, customer claims submitted to recover additional costs incurred, 
including considering correspondence with the customer and legal advice received 
where appropriate. Customer claims reflect changes in project scope for which we 
rely on the achievement of historic management estimates.
We assessed the contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the 
procedures above in respect of the overall margin anticipated on the contract 
and validating that fixed overheads had been appropriately excluded.
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments 
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee Report), page 83 (note 1, Accounting 
policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty – impairment 
of goodwill), pages 94 and 95 (note 10, Intangible assets) and page 112 
(note 27, Business combinations (prior year restatement)).
The Group has goodwill of £1,147m and intangibles of £582m on its Balance 
Sheet. There is the risk that these balances cannot be supported by the future cash 
flows of the CGUs. Management conducts an annual impairment test of goodwill 
balances and intangibles are reviewed whenever there is an indicator that an asset 
may be impaired. 
During 2015, the goodwill relating to two out of the total of 18 CGUs was fully 
impaired as follows:
 − The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Telerob was impaired by £27m 
following a year of poor trading performance; 
 − Following the decision by management to sell the business the goodwill 
relating to the Surveillance business was also fully written down, resulting 
in an impairment charge of £45m.
We assessed management’s impairment testing relating to all of the 18 CGUs 
by obtaining the supporting model and assessing the methodology and key 
assumptions made:
 − Future cash flow forecasts: we evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow 
forecasts and tested the underlying values used in the calculations by 
comparing the Directors’ forecast to the latest Board approved five year 
strategic plan; 
 − Discount rates: we have an internally developed range of acceptable discount 
rates for valuing CGUs, which is based on our view of various economic 
indicators. We are satisfied that the discount rates used by the Directors 
fall within this range for all territories with the exception of Europe, where 
the Directors have adopted a more conservative rate. This did not result in 
a material misstatement;
 − Long term growth rates: we compared the rates applied by management to 
our own internally developed published rates. No inconsistencies were noted.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions for all 18 CGUs in 
order to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions required individually 
or collectively to result in a further impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. 
For those business units which were most sensitive, we discussed the basis for 
these cash flows with senior management and the Audit Committee. In particular 
we have focused on the recoverability of the goodwill and intangible assets 
acquired as part of the acquisition of the Aeroflex business in the prior year, which 
generated goodwill and intangible assets of £947m and the SA TCOM business unit 
which has experienced trading headwinds in the year, which had a goodwill balance 
at the year end of £222m. 
We challenged management over the sensitivity disclosures presented in the 
financial statements to ensure all reasonably possible changes to assumptions that 
could lead to a material impairment had been appropriately considered and where 
necessary disclosed. We are satisfied that the disclosures made and the overall 
impairment testing performed by management are appropriate. 74
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Inventory provisioning
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee Report), page 83 (note 1, Accounting 
policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty – inventory 
provisions) and page 97 (note 13, Inventories).
The nature of much of the Group’s business means that the products developed 
can become technically obsolete. It is also necessary to hold additional spare parts 
in order to support key customers and programmes should the products require 
replacement or servicing. The Group had gross inventory of £459m and provisions 
for obsolescence of £49m on its Balance Sheet.
We focused on this area because inventory provisions include subjective estimates 
and are influenced by assumptions concerning future realisable value and usage.
In addition, the methods used for this estimate vary between reporting units 
depending on the nature of the business and inventory.
We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the 
provision for slow moving, excess or obsolete items. This included comparing 
management’s calculations for consistency against those used in the prior year 
and considering whether there was any indication of management bias such 
as manual overrides to the established methodology. Manual overrides are 
typically in respect of spares held for the servicing of products on aircraft 
which have a long service life. Where overrides were material, we considered 
the appropriateness of management’s judgement based on historical usage 
and future usage expectations. 
For reporting units included within full scope we tested the reliability of the 
underlying data used by management to calculate the inventory obsolescence 
provisions, typically an aged inventory analysis showing last movements, by 
re-performing the ageing calculation driven by the system. We also tested the 
accuracy of the resultant calculation by assessing the calculation criteria and 
recalculating the provision for a sample of products.
No material misstatements were identified. 
Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee Report), page 83 (note 1, Accounting 
policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty – definitions) 
and page 88 (note 2, Underlying measures).
The financial statements include business restructuring costs of £68m which 
are disclosed as non-underlying and are excluded from underlying operating 
profit. We focused on this area because IFRSs do not define which items may 
be excluded from underlying operating profit and it therefore requires judgement 
around the justification for such exclusion. Consistency in identifying and disclosing 
items to be excluded from underlying operating profit is important to maintain 
comparability of the results year on year. In 2015 these business restructuring 
costs relate primarily to the integration of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014.
We tested the presentation of the business restructuring costs as non-underlying 
by assessing whether the classification was in line with the Group’s accounting 
policy on such items on page 88 of the financial statements. This included testing 
a sample of the costs incurred to supporting evidence such as external purchase 
invoices, redundancy agreements and personnel costs for staff dedicated to these 
restructuring projects. We also assessed the appropriateness of this policy and no 
material issues were identified. 
Accounting for uncertain tax provisions
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee Report), page 83 (note 1, Accounting 
policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty – taxation).
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number 
of jurisdictions. The Group has a number of open tax enquiries and has recognised 
a number of centrally held provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation 
of which is a highly judgemental area. Where tax positions are not settled with the 
tax authorities, the Directors take into account precedent and the advice of 
external experts.
 
We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read 
correspondence from tax authorities and external legal counsel on open tax 
enquiries. 
We assessed the adequacy of the Directors’ taxation provisions by considering 
factors such as the risk profile of each matter and whether the provision addresses 
possible penalties and interest. We met with senior management and challenged 
the judgements made in relation to the likelihood of litigation from tax authorities 
by comparing management’s assessment against our own independent views 
which are based on our independent perception of risk. We found that the 
judgements made by management were within our expected ranges.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals 
Refer to page 54 (Audit Committee Report), page 100, 112 and 113 (notes 
16 – Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, 27– Business 
combinations (prior year restatement), and 28 – Business divestments).
The acquisition accounting of the Aeroflex business in the prior year required 
a number of judgements surrounding the fair value adjustments to net assets 
acquired. This year, the final adjustments have been recorded by management 
resulting in a reduction in net assets acquired of £46m with an equal increase in 
goodwill. In accordance with IAS 8, the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014 
as previously reported has been restated. 
The Group has undertaken a number of divestments during the year which has 
resulted in a £31m net profit after tax. As some disposals formed part of the 
recently acquired Aeroflex business the key focus of our work has been assessing 
management’s judgement in the carve-out of goodwill and intangibles from within 
the CGU. 
As a consequence of the decision made in the year to divest the Surveillance 
businesses, the assets and liabilities relating to these business units have been 
classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date. 
We have assessed the final fair value adjustments made to the opening 
Aeroflex balance sheet and have understood the rationale for management’s 
calculations of the adjustments to provisions. We have obtained the supporting 
documentation for the additional provisions recognised and have not identified 
any material misstatements. We reviewed the presentation of the prior year 
restatement with no material misstatements identified.
We have reviewed the sale and purchase agreements relating to the divestments, 
and have agreed the cash consideration received to bank statements. We 
challenged management on their decision to carve out the goodwill and 
intangibles based on underlying profits and not total assets and concur with this 
assumption on the basis that the initial valuation of the business was based on 
expected future cash flows.
Specifically relating to the divestment of the Surveillance businesses in 2016, 
we have confirmed that assets have been correctly written down to their fair 
value and have been correctly classified as held for sale in the financial statements. 
We have reviewed the sale and purchase agreement relating to this divestment 
and have not identified any usual terms. 
We are satisfied that the accounting for divestments, both completed and 
in progress at the year end date have been appropriately accounted for and 
disclosed in the financial statements.  75
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work 
to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into 
account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and 
controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured along four reported Sectors, being Advanced Electronic 
Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity, and Mission 
Systems. The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 67 reporting 
units within these Sectors, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and 
centralised functions. Accordingly, of the Group’s 67 reporting units, we identified 
17 which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, 
due to their size, their risk characteristics or because some are covered on a 
rotational basis over a two or three year cycle. Specific audit procedures on 
certain balances and transactions (typically including at least revenue and 
inventory) were performed at a further 12 reporting units. Audit procedures were 
performed at all principal manufacturing locations, all significant Aviation Services 
reporting units and at the four largest components of the Aeroflex acquisition in 
the year.
79% of the Group’s revenue is accounted for by reporting units where we 
performed full scope audit work or performed specific audit procedures over 
revenue. 43% of the Group’s underlying profit before taxation is accounted 
for by the 17 reporting units where we performed full scope audit work on the 
complete financial information. In the US, as a result of our assessment of their 
size and risk characteristics, we determined that 12 US entities did not require an 
audit of their complete financial information, but rather, audit procedures were 
required only on significant financial statement line items within the income 
statement and balance sheet. At a further 28 reporting units, we performed 
analytical procedures on each to understand key balances and transactions 
in the year and performed additional procedures on any unusual balances 
identified. In addition we have performed a review of significant journals posted 
within the sector consolidations. All of these audit procedures, together with 
additional procedures performed at Group level, including a review of significant 
adjustments made to the financial statements, gave us the evidence we needed 
for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the 
type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the 
Group engagement team, or subsidiary audit teams from other PwC network 
firms operating under our instruction. Where the work was performed by 
subsidiary audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to 
have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether 
sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion 
on the financial statements as a whole. This included attending the audit close 
meetings at which the outcome of each subsidiary audit was discussed and 
visiting a number of larger subsidiary audit teams during their fieldwork 
including the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling development 
and production contracts.
Where subsidiary audit teams performed work at the reporting unit level on 
behalf of the Group team, this work was performed to lower materiality levels 
appropriate to the individual units. These materiality levels ranged from £0.7m  
to £5m.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set 
certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement 
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £14m (2014: £13m).
How we determined it
 
5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark 
applied
Underlying profit before taxation is defined in 
the Annual Report on page 84. We believe that 
underlying profit before taxation represents an 
appropriate metric for assessing the performance 
of the Group and provides us with a consistent 
year on year basis for determining materiality. It 
is the amount reported by management both 
internally and externally to the market. We also 
considered our overall Group materiality in the 
context of the Group’s revenue, noting that it 
represents less than 0.7%.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements 
identified during our audit above £0.5m (2014: £0.5m) as well as misstatements 
below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set 
out on page 31, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything 
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement 
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it 
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for 
at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part 
of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern 
basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can 
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 − Information in the Annual Report is:
 − materially inconsistent with the information 
in the audited financial statements; or
 − apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of 
the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 − otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions  
to report.
 − The statement given by the Directors on page 45, in 
accordance with provision C. 1. 1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), that they consider the 
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the 
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions  
to report.
 − The section of the Annual Report on page 52, as 
required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not 
appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 76
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc continued
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of 
the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity 
of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything 
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 − The Directors’ confirmation on page 34 of the Annual 
Report, in accordance with provision C.2. 1 of the Code, 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing 
material to add or to  
draw attention to.
 − The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe 
those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
 − The Directors’ explanation on page 34 of the Annual 
Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, 
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why 
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer term viability of 
the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only 
consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting 
their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant 
provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent 
with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements  
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: 
 − Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 − The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
 − The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of 
Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Pauline Campbell 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
2 March 2016 77
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Group Financial Statements Index
Consolidated Income Statement 78
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 79
Consolidated Balance Sheet 80
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 81
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 82
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies  83
2. Underlying measures 88
3. Revenue and segmental information 89
4. Operating costs 90
5. Finance income and costs 91
6. Taxation 92
7. Dividends 93
8. Earnings per ordinary share 93
9. Cash and cash equivalents and net debt 93
10. Intangible assets 94
11. Property, plant and equipment 96
12. Investment properties 96
13. Inventories 97
14. Financial instruments 97
15. Trade and other receivables 99
16. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 100
17. Borrowings 100
18. Trade and other payables 101
19. Provisions 102
20. Deferred tax 102
21. Derivative financial instruments 104
22. Retirement benefit schemes 104
23. Financial risk management 107
24. Share capital 110
25. Other reserves 111
26. Share based payments 111
27. Business combinations (prior year restatement) 112
28. Business divestments 113
29. Operating lease arrangements 114
30. Contingent liabilities 114
31. Related party transactions 114
32. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings 115
33. Events after the balance sheet date 118 78
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
£m Note 2015 2014
Revenue 3 2,072.0 1,851.7
Cost of sales (1,408.2) (1,290.1)
Gross profit 663.8 561.6
Selling and distribution costs (130.1) (100.3)
Administrative expenses (521.7) (403.7)
Operating profit 12.0 57.6
Finance income 5 5.2 6.4
Finance costs 5 (57.0) (39.7)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (39.8) 24.3
Taxation 6 2.1 4.7
(Loss)/profit after taxation for the year (37.7) 29.0
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (37.8) 28.8
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.2
(37.7) 29.0
Earnings per ordinary share 8
Basic (3.35)p 2.60p
Diluted (3.35)p 2.58p
Trading profit is calculated as follows:
£m Note 2015 2014
Operating profit 12.0 57.6
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring 67.5 52.2
Derivative financial instruments 18.8 21.8
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 176.8 113.6
Impairment of goodwill 26.6 –
Exceptional legal costs – 0.8
Other business acquisition and divestment related items 30.5 40.7
Trading profit 2 332.2 286.7
Underlying EPS 2 19.48p 18.48p
The definitions of trading profit and underlying EPS are shown in note 1. 
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 79
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
£m Note 2015 2014 
(Loss)/profit after taxation for the year (37.7) 29.0
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations 22 29.6 (27.7)
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 22 – (0.7)
Tax effects 6 (5.9) 5.0
23.7 (23.4)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 25 (38.2) (18.7)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values 25 1.1 1.3
Hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 25 – 1.6
Tax effects 6 (0.2) (0.9)
(37.3) (16.7)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (13.6) (40.1)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (51.3) (11.1)
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (51.4) (11.3)
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.2
(51.3) (11.1)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2015 80
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2015
£m Note 2015
2014 
Restated
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 1,729.5 2,040.8
Property, plant and equipment 11 379.9 390.0
Investment properties 12 4.3 10.4
Investments in joint ventures and associates 3.0 3.1
Trade and other receivables 15 71.3 51.1
Other financial assets 14 6.1 6.1
Deferred tax 20 11.4 10.5
Derivative financial instruments 21 6.5 7.6
2,212.0 2,519.6
Current assets
Inventories 13 410.4 429.5
Trade and other receivables 15 366.0 435.3
Current tax receivables 8.6 0.4
Derivative financial instruments 21 9.1 8.7
Cash and cash equivalents 9 294.7 225.6
Assets classified as held for sale 16 16.8 2.1
1,105.6 1,101.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (156.4) (1.5)
Trade and other payables 18 (398.1) (505.5)
Provisions 19 (74.3) (60.5)
Current tax liabilities (125.1) (119.2)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (30.6) (20.7)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 16 (12.7) –
(797.2) (707 .4)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (1,345.1) (1,446.8)
Trade and other payables 18 (24.8) (36.2)
Provisions 19 (68.2) (66.5)
Deferred tax 20 (102.0) (134.5)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (13.9) (15.5)
Retirement benefit obligations 22 (56.7) (102.0)
(1,610.7) (1,801.5)
Net assets 909.7 1,112.3
Equity
Share capital 24 30.4 30.4
Share premium 301.9 301.9
Other reserves 25 (0.3) 42.7
Retained earnings 576.8 736.4
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 908.8 1,111.4
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.9 0.9
Total equity 909.7 1,112.3
Details of the restatement of the 2014 Balance Sheet can be found in note 27. The financial statements on pages 78 to 118 were approved by a duly appointed and 
authorised committee of the Board on 2 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:   
Bob Murphy      Simon Nicholls 
Directors 81
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
£m
Share  
capital
Share 
premium
Other 
reserves  
(note 25)
Retained 
earnings
Total 
attributable  
to owners 
of the 
parent
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total  
equity
Total equity at 1 January 2014 28.9 126.6 55.2 832.7 1,043.4 0.8 1,044.2
Profit for the year – – – 28.8 28.8 0.2 29.0
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – (23.4) (23.4) – (23.4)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – (16.7) – (16.7) – (16.7)
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – (16.7) 5.4 (11.3) 0.2 (11.1)
Issue of shares 1.5 175.3 – – 176.8 – 176.8
Net proceeds from treasury shares – – – 3.3 3.3 – 3.3
Dividends (note 7) – – – (108.3) (108.3) – (108.3)
Share based payments (note 26) – – 6.1 – 6.1 – 6.1
Transfer of other reserves to retained earnings – – (3.3) 3.3 – – –
T ax effects (note 6) – – 1.5 – 1.5 – 1.5
Foreign exchange adjustments – – (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Total equity at 31 December 2014 30.4 301.9 42.7 736.4 1,111.4 0.9 1,112.3
Loss for the year – – – (37.8) (37.8) 0.1 (37.7)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – 23.7 23.7 – 23.7
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – (37.3) – (37.3) – (37.3)
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – (37.3) (14.1) (51.4) 0.1 (51.3)
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – (24.9) (24.9) – (24.9)
Dividends (note 7) – – – (122.1) (122.1) – (122.1)
Share based payments (note 26) – – (3.0) – (3.0) – (3.0)
Transfer of other reserves to retained earnings – – (1.5) 1.5 – – –
T ax effects (note 6) – – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments – – (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Total equity at 31 December 2015 30.4 301.9 (0.3) 576.8 908.8 0.9 909.7
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015 82
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
£m Note 2015 2014
Operating profit 12.0 57.6
Non-cash items: 
 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates (0.2) (0.2)
 Depreciation and amortisation 254.4 190.8
 Impairment of goodwill 26.6 –
 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (1.4) (0.3)
 Business acquisition and divestment related items 27.3 23.8
 Derivative financial instruments 21 18.8 21.8
 Pension contributions in excess of pension charges 22 (17.8) (16.9)
 Share based payments 26 (3.0) 6.1
Operating cash movements:
 Increase in inventories (34.6) (11.9)
 Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 19.1 (68.3)
 (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (38.6) 17.3
 Increase in provisions 7.4 12.9
 Tax paid (31.5) (37 .0)
 Interest paid (53.0) (31.5)
 Interest received 3.6 3.7
Net cash from operating activities 189.1 167.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (97.8) (63.7)
Purchase of intangible assets (18.6) (12.4)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17.7 2.3
Investment in loan notes – (9.0)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash or debt acquired (52.6) (846.1)
Contingent consideration paid – (28.5)
Proceeds of business divestments 28 205.2 6.6
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 53.9 (950.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of share capital – 176.8
Dividends paid 7 (122.1) (108.3)
Purchase of treasury shares (29.3) (5.5)
Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 4.4 8.8
New borrowings 9 257.9 1,467 .5
Repayment of borrowings 9 (271.0) (699.9)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (160.1) 839.4
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 82.9 56.5
Exchange movements (13.2) (31.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 224.3 199.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 294.0 224.3
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to the Balance Sheet and movement in net debt is detailed in note 9.     83
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies
General information
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of  
Cobham plc (the Company), a public company limited by shares, registered  
and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries (the Group). 
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, 
interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee and those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under 
the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
Principal accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied unless 
otherwise stated, are as set out below. 
Accounting developments
Amendments to standards which have been adopted with effect from  
1 January 2015 are: 
 − Amendment to IAS 19, Defined Benefit Plans;
 − Annual Improvements 2012;
 − Annual Improvements 201 3.
The Group has also elected to adopt the Disclosure Initiative – amendments 
to IAS 1, from 1 January 2015, earlier than the required effective date. 
No changes to previously published accounting policies or other adjustments 
were required on the adoption of these amendments. 
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the 
use of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting 
policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The 
current economic conditions have been considered when evaluating 
accounting estimates and judgements, including the application of the going 
concern basis of preparation. Although estimates are based on management’s 
best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may 
differ from those estimates.
The Board considers that the key assumptions concerning the future and other 
key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, which have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows:
Contract risk and programme execution 
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that 
there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations 
that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and 
could materially impact the Group’s future reported earnings. 
Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a project or programme gives rise to 
the risk of increased programme costs, contract penalties, litigation and other 
financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and reputational risk.
Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, 
the outcome of negotiations with customers, the amounts recoverable under 
these contracts and any provisions required. Where appropriate, the consolidated 
financial statements include provisions for the estimated outcome of commercial 
disputes and other claims, including those with long term contract partners. 
The Directors take account of the advice of experts in quantifying the expected 
costs of future adverse outcomes. Due to the inherent uncertainty associated 
with such matters, the timing and determination of the total costs or amount 
of any payments under any claims could differ from the amounts provided.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (note 10)
A review of the carrying value of goodwill is completed at least once a year to 
ensure that it is not impaired. This requires estimation of the value in use of the 
cash generating units (CGUs) to which the goodwill is allocated. 
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if events occur which 
may indicate that these assets may be impaired. The carrying value of intangible 
assets is considered annually as part of the goodwill impairment exercise with 
reference to the value in use calculation of each CGU. 
Estimating value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected 
future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in 
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 
Inventory provisions (note 13)
The nature of much of the Group’s business means that inventory held can become 
technically obsolete. It is also necessary to hold additional spare parts in order 
to support key customers and programmes. Judgement is required in assessing 
the level of provision required for obsolete, slow moving and defective items of 
inventory, reflecting assumptions concerning future orders and revenue streams. 
Taxation (notes 6 and 20)
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement 
is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax. There are many 
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is 
uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises liabilities 
based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final 
tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax provisions 
and the Income Statement in the period in which such determination is made.
Business combinations (note 27)
On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by recognising 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at fair value. 
Intangible assets are recognised where they are separable or arise from contractual 
or legal rights, and have a fair value that can be measured reliably. For the Group, 
these intangible assets usually comprise contractual arrangements, customer 
relationships and technology based assets, but can also include acquired patents, 
software rights and licences and development costs. 
In establishing fair value for intangible assets recognised on acquisition and their 
estimated useful lives, the Group takes account of the individual circumstances 
of the entity acquired. Useful economic lives of intangible assets are reviewed 
at least annually to ensure that they continue to be appropriate.
Judgement is also exercised in assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities. 
During the measurement period, which cannot be more than one year after the 
acquisition date, new information obtained about facts and circumstances that 
existed at the acquisition date is considered in assessing these fair values.
Retirement benefits (note 22)
The Group Financial Statements include costs and liabilities in relation to retirement 
benefit obligations. A number of assumptions are made in assessing the costs and 
present value of the pension assets and liabilities, which include the long term rate 
of increase of salary costs, discount rate, inflation and mortality rates. Comparatively 
small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the 
Group’s financial statements. The Group uses published indices and independent 
actuarial advice to select the values of critical assumptions. These assumptions, 
with sensitivity analysis, can be found in note 22.  84
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Definitions
Underlying measures (note 2)
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included 
within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including trading 
profit and underlying earnings results. These are considered by the Board to 
be the most meaningful measures under which to assess the true operating 
performance of the Group.
All underlying measures include the operational results of all businesses including 
those held for sale until the point of sale. 
Trading profit (note 2)
This has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding 
the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related activity and business 
restructuring costs as detailed below. Also excluded are changes in the marking to 
market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, gains and losses 
arising on dividend related foreign exchange contracts, impairments of intangible 
assets, and items deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature.
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from trading 
profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets 
recognised on acquisition, revaluation gains and losses arising on the 
original equity interests on stepped acquisitions, gains or losses arising on 
business divestments, adjustments to businesses held for sale, the writing off 
of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition, 
other direct costs associated with business combinations and terminated 
divestments, and adjustments to contingent consideration related to 
previously acquired businesses.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio 
which are incremental to normal operations. In 2015, these relate primarily to 
the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014. 
Underlying earnings (note 2)
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance 
costs, which excludes acquisition related items, and after deducting associated 
taxation and non-controlling interests. 
Net debt (note 9)
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents at 
the balance sheet date.
Free cash flow and operating cash flow (note 2)
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus dividends 
received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the purchase or disposal 
of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets but excluding payments 
relating to M&A related activities.
Operating cash flow is free cash flow before payment of tax, interest and 
restructuring costs.
Operating segments (note 3)
The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified 
as the Board. It reviews the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess 
performance and allocate resources. Details of the composition and purpose 
of the Board can be found on pages 42 and 43.
The Group reports four operating segments whose revenue and results are 
reported to the Board. These are Communications and Connectivity, Mission 
Systems, Advanced Electronic Solutions and Aviation Services. All operating 
segments meet the definition of reportable segments as defined in IFRS 8. 
The principal activities of these segments are described on pages 20 to 25. 
The Board assesses the trading performance of operating segments based 
on revenue and trading profit as defined above. Finance income, finance 
costs and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the Board on a 
consolidated basis. Segment net assets are disclosed voluntarily in note 3 and 
include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, 
inventory, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and provisions. 
They do not include tax, net debt, derivative financial instruments, contingent 
consideration payable or retirement benefit obligations. 
Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements include the financial statements of the Parent 
Company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control, which is defined 
as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until the date that 
control ceases. On derecognition, any amounts previously recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income (OCI) in respect of that entity are accounted for as 
if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may 
mean that amounts previously recognised in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
Joint ventures are entities where the parties that have joint control have rights 
to the net assets of the arrangement. Associates are entities where the Group 
has significant influence. Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated 
but are accounted for using the equity method. The Group Financial Statements 
include the Group’s share of the post-acquisition change in net assets and the 
post-tax profit or loss of jointly controlled entities and associates from the date 
that joint control or significant influence commences until the date this ceases. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation. 
Foreign currencies
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling. Most Group companies, 
including the Parent Company, use their local currency as their functional 
currency. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are 
translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated 
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange 
differences arising are taken to the Income Statement. 
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are 
translated at the closing exchange rates. Income statements of such undertakings 
are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an approximation for actual 
rates during the year. Exchange differences arising on these translations are 
accounted for in OCI and the translation reserve. On divestment, these exchange 
differences are reclassified from the translation reserve to the Income Statement.
Business combinations (note 27)
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of 
accounting with effect from the date control passes. The excess of the fair 
value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the Group’s share of 
the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Where a business 
combination is completed in stages, any previously held interests are remeasured 
to fair value at the date at which control is achieved. Any resulting gain or loss 
is recognised in the Income Statement. Acquisition related costs are expensed 
as incurred.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, net of returns 
and other allowances, and excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and 
other sales taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is recognised 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and effective control of 
the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery of the consideration is 
probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably. In 
the case of contracts with a long duration, including contracts with a funded 
development phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work 
performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract milestones 
which have been accepted by the customer. 
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11, Construction Contracts is 
not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of goods entered 
into by Group companies. Where long term contract accounting is applicable, 
revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis whereby a portion 
of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract costs incurred to date 
compared with total estimated costs at completion. 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 85
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with reference to 
the proportion of the service delivered to date. For ‘cost-plus’ contracts (typically 
with government departments and agencies), revenue is recognised to the extent 
of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated 
fee earned. For contracts where revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, 
revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
Taxation including deferred taxation (notes 6 and 20)
The tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, using rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect 
of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax 
is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply to the period 
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. 
Tax is charged or credited to the Income Statement except when it relates to 
items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred 
taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Dividends (note 7)
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are 
fully authorised. 
Intangible assets (note 10)
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at 
which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. 
On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included 
in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are 
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. These 
include customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, licences 
and patents. The only internally generated intangible assets are development 
costs which are capitalised as described below and internally developed software 
where asset recognition criteria are met. 
These intangible assets are amortised over the asset’s estimated useful life on 
a straight-line basis as follows:
 Customer relationships  5 to 15 years 
 T echnology based assets  5 to 15 years
 Development costs  2 to 10 years
 Order book and trade names  6 months to 10 years
 Software and other   2 to 10 years
Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis, taking into account 
the specific characteristics of the asset. 
Research and development
Development costs are capitalised when it can be demonstrated that the 
conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets are met, 
paying particular attention to the requirements for the product to be technically 
feasible and capable of generating a financial return. At that point, further costs 
are capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available 
for use and is then amortised as described above. All development costs not 
capitalised are written off as incurred together with all research costs.
Property, plant and equipment (note 11)
Freehold and leasehold land and buildings, plant and machinery, and fixtures, 
fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase 
price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
All property, plant and equipment other than land and assets under construction 
is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the 
estimated useful lives. These lives are as follows:
 Freehold buildings    50 years
 Leasehold properties  Period to next break clause
 Plant and machinery  3 to 15 years
 Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed annually 
and adjusted where necessary. Freehold land is not depreciated, and is reviewed 
for impairment at least annually.
Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred to the appropriate 
category of property, plant and equipment once construction is complete and 
they enter into service. They are depreciated from this point in accordance with 
the policies described above.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the term of the  
relevant lease. 
Aircraft overhaul expenditure
Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred 
and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful 
economic life. Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft 
held under operating leases are provided for over the period between the 
scheduled maintenance events. 
Investment properties (note 12)
Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation, are stated at cost in the Balance Sheet. They are depreciated on 
a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful 
lives of up to 50 years. 
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Impairments 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets are reviewed at  
least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
Where there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not  
been adjusted.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset 
is lower than its carrying amount. All impairment losses are recognised in the 
Income Statement. 
An impairment loss, other than arising on goodwill, is reversed only after a 
change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount is identified and 
only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment loss had been recognised. Any reversal is recognised in the 
Income Statement. 86
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Leasing (notes 11 and 29)
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases 
are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their 
fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each 
determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor 
is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so 
as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Finance charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits receivable as an 
incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
Inventories (note 13)
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition. Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out method.  
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated  
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution. Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving  
and defective items.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (note 16)
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are stated at 
the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal. No depreciation 
is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance sheet date. 
The asset or disposal group should be available for immediate sale in its present 
condition and actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value. 
Fair values
The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the balance sheet date. Fair value measurements are 
used on a recurring basis except where used in the measurement of net 
assets classified as held for sale and in the valuation of assets and liabilities 
in a business combination. 
The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been determined by 
the use of valuation techniques, primarily discounted cash flows, based on 
assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates. 
The fair values of non-financial assets and liabilities, which includes net assets 
classified as held for sale, are based on observable market prices or rates.  
These measurements fall within Level 2 of the IAS 39 fair value hierarchy. 
For non-financial assets, the fair value takes into account the highest and 
best use of the asset.
For financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in the Balance 
Sheet, the carrying values of these items are assumed to approximate to fair 
value due to their short term nature.
There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during the year. 
The Group’s policy is to recognise transfers in and transfers out of fair value 
hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change in circumstances that 
caused the transfer, although there have been no such transfers during the 
current or comparative periods.
Financial instruments (note 14)
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s Balance 
Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument and are initially recognised at fair value at trade date. Subsequent 
measurement is dependent upon the classification of the instrument which is 
determined at initial recognition with reference to the purpose for which the 
instruments were acquired and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
All financial assets and liabilities are classified as current or non-current 
dependent upon the maturity date of the instruments. Financial assets and 
liabilities are presented on an offset basis when there is a legally enforceable  
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a  
net basis. 
Financial assets 
Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held for 
trading under IAS 39 and are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market. These include 
trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, assets categorised as loans and receivables are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets either 
designated by management as available for sale or not falling into any other 
category. Financial assets so categorised include equity instruments which do 
not have a quoted price in an active market and hence are measured at cost. 
None of the Group’s material financial assets fall into the held to maturity 
category of IAS 39, which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed maturity 
dates that the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are categorised as held for trading under IAS 39 and are 
subsequently held at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities, which 
are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Derivative 
financial instruments are categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced when 
there is evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due. 
All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for 
by reference to past default experience. The balance may be written off in full, 
generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old. Impairments are 
charged to administrative expenses in the Income Statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on 
demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow 
Statement. 
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount of 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Borrowing costs, net of amounts 
capitalised, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the Income 
Statement as incurred. Premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs are capitalised and amortised over the period of the facility. 
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to relevant property, plant and 
equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Trade payables
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date 
the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. 
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the 
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item 
being hedged.
The Group currently utilises cash flow hedge accounting principles in relation 
to interest rate swaps and a limited number of specific foreign exchange 
contracts used to mitigate the Group’s exposure to changes in interest rates 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 87
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
arising on floating rate debt and certain foreign exchange impacts of trading in 
non-functional currencies. Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship 
between hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the  
inception of the transaction. The Group also documents its assessment, both  
at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of 
hedged items. 
Where interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are designated and 
qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value is 
recognised in OCI through the hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating to the 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance income or finance costs in the 
Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The majority of foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign 
exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies and inflation 
swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks are not accounted for using 
hedge accounting.
Foreign currency borrowings are also used to hedge the effects of changes in the 
Group’s net investment in foreign operations. These borrowings either provide a 
natural economic hedge through the use of intercompany debt or are designated 
as net investment hedges. Where net investment hedging applies, the borrowings 
are designated as fair value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to the 
foreign equity investment and the exchange differences arising are recognised in 
OCI and through profit and loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or liability 
except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months. 
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of the 
derivative instruments are included in the Income Statement as part of operating 
profit. The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current 
asset or liability dependent upon the maturity date of the financial instrument. 
Provisions (note 19)
A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will 
be required and where the amount can be reliably measured. No provision is 
recognised where the existence of an obligation is possible but will only be 
confirmed by uncertain future events. Provisions are discounted at an appropriate 
risk free rate when the impact is material.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant 
products, at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the Group’s liabilities, based on past experience and industry averages for 
defective products. 
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the 
expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant periodic 
maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on leased operational 
aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months. Costs are charged to the 
Income Statement on the basis of utilisation of the aircraft and are credited to 
the provision. The provision is then utilised by absorbing the actual costs incurred 
in carrying out the maintenance activity. Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 
12 months or less is charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts contain 
specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on its return to 
the lessor at the end of the lease. The estimated cost associated with fulfilling 
these requirements is charged to the Income Statement on an aircraft utilisation 
basis. The provision is utilised on actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the 
expenditure required to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required 
by the lease before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under 
performance guarantees are recognised at management’s best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s liabilities. 
Retirement benefit schemes (note 22)
For defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related to the 
administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit. Gains and losses 
on settlements and curtailments arising on a business divestment are included in 
profit on divestment. Past service costs are recognised in the Income Statement. 
The interest on net assets or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs. 
Actuarial remeasurements are recognised in OCI.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held 
separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds. 
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate 
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of 
equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations 
are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The 
resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face 
of the Balance Sheet.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the Income 
Statement as they fall due. 
Share capital (note 24)
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. Preference share capital is classified 
as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the 
preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends 
on preference share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the Income 
Statement as finance costs.
Treasury shares (note 24)
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, 
the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration paid, including 
commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total equity. 
The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or re-issued, net of 
commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in retained earnings and 
total equity.
Share based payments (note 26)
For grants made under the Group’s equity settled share based payment schemes, 
amounts which reflect the fair value of awards as at the time of grant are charged 
to the Income Statement over the relevant vesting periods, taking into account 
the Directors’ best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The 
Group reviews and updates the vesting estimate, which includes progress against 
non-market related performance conditions, at each balance sheet date. 
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes model, 
modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance 
criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
Future accounting developments
A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and 
interpretations have been published that are mandatory for future accounting 
periods. Annual Improvements 2014 has been endorsed by the EU for use from 
1 January 2016 and is not expected to have an impact on the Group’s financial 
reporting. None of the amendments to other standards effective from 1 January 
2016 are expected to have an impact on the Group’s financial reporting.
There are also a number of new standards and amendments to existing 
standards including Annual Improvements which, once endorsed by the EU, 
will be effective from 1 January 2017 or later years. These include: 
 − IFRS 9, Financial Instruments; 
 − IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers; 
 − IFRS 16, Leases.
Based on an initial review, IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact on 
the results of the Group. IFRS 15, effective from 1 January 2018, is currently 
under review to determine the potential impact to the Group; it is not practicable 
to quantify the effect at this time. The impacts of the recently issued IFRS 16, 
effective from 1 January 2019, and other amendments are under review. 88
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
2. Underlying measures
Underlying measures, defined in note 1 on page 84, are derived from operating profit as set out below:
£m Note 2015 2014
Operating profit 12.0 57.6
Business restructuring 67.5 52.2
Derivative financial instruments 21 18.8 21.8
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 176.8 113.6
Impairment of goodwill 26.6 –
Exceptional legal costs – 0.8
Other business acquisition and divestment related items
Profit on divestments 28 (53.8) (0.3)
Amounts provided related to businesses held for sale 69.0 –
Pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written off 9.3 19.6
Other M&A related costs 6.0 21.4
Trading profit 332.2 286.7
Underlying net finance costs (51.8) (29.7)
Underlying profit before taxation 280.4 257.0
T axation charge on underlying profit (effective rate 21.5%, 2014: 20.25%) (60.2) (52.0)
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.2)
Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 220.1 204.8
Underlying basic EPS 19.48p 18.48p
Underlying diluted EPS 19.40p 18.38p
Underlying administrative expenses, after adjusting for the reconciling items in the table above, amounted to £201.5m (2014: £174.8m), representing 9.7% 
(2014: 9.4%) of revenue. 
 
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio which are incremental to normal operations. In 2015, these relate primarily to 
the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014.  
 
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations includes £98.4m (2014: £13.6m) related to the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014. 
During 2015 an impairment provision of £26.6m was made in respect of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of T elerob in 2011. 
Amounts provided related to the businesses held for sale in respect of the Surveillance businesses include an impairment of goodwill of £44.8m and £2.4m 
impairment of other intangible assets. These are included within administrative expenses in the Income Statement.   
   
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow and operating cash flow as follows:    
£m 2015 2014
Net cash from operating activities per Cash Flow Statement 189.1 167.9
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (97.8) (63.7)
Purchase of intangible assets (18.6) (12.4)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17.7 2.3
Business acquisition and divestment related costs paid 15.1 20.3
Free cash flow 105.5 114.4
Business restructuring 48.2 31.3
Tax paid 31.5 37.0
Underlying net finance costs paid 49.4 25.2
Operating cash flow 234.6 207.9
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 89
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
3. Revenue and segmental information
Revenue
Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows:
£m 2015 2014
Revenue from sale of goods 1,585.4 1,368.2
Revenue from services 486.6 483.5
2,072.0 1,851.7
Revenue from services includes service contracts in the Aviation Services Sector together with logistics support, maintenance and repairs in other Sectors.   
      
Operating segments
Revenue Trading profit Segment net assets
£m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015
2014 
Restated
Communications and Connectivity 771.8 697.1 108.4 118.3 844.0 1,066.3
Mission Systems 382.4 333.5 68.0 35.9 289.2 303.0
Advanced Electronic Solutions 538.0 410.1 80.5 64.0 996.0 1,067 .8
Aviation Services 390.1 412.2 57.3 54.5 257.1 284.0
Head office, other activities and elimination  
of inter-segment items (10.3) (1.2) 18.0 14.0 19.9 (24.5)
Total Group 2,072.0 1,851.7 332.2 286.7 2,406.2 2,696.6
Interests in joint ventures and associates 3.0 3.1
Unallocated liabilities (1,499.5) (1,587 .4)
Total net assets 909.7 1,112.3
Trading profit is reconciled to the result before taxation as follows:
£m Note 2015 2014
Trading profit 332.2 286.7
Business restructuring 2 (67.5) (52.2)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (18.8) (21.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations (176.8) (113.6)
Impairment of goodwill 10 (26.6) –
Exceptional legal costs – (0.8)
Other business acquisition and divestment related items (30.5) (40.7)
Net finance costs 5 (51.8) (33.3)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (39.8) 24.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles are included in the calculation of trading 
profit and can be analysed by segment as follows:      
£m 2015 2014
Communications and Connectivity 16.7 18.9
Mission Systems 5.3 5.0
Advanced Electronic Solutions 16.4 12.5
Aviation Services 36.1 38.8
Head office, other activities and elimination of inter-segment items 2.7 2.0
Total Group 77.2 77.2
Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 4.   90
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Geographical information
Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographic location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown below. Non-current assets are 
analysed by the physical location of the assets and exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets.  
Revenue Non-current assets
£m 2015 2014 2015
2014
Restated
USA 985.1 814.4 1,156.8 1,457 .2
UK 223.0 228.3 551.3 515.7
Other EU 305.2 286.5 275.4 317.0
Australia 226.6 247.2 106.2 87.6
Rest of the world 332.1 275.3 27.0 66.8
2,072.0 1,851.7 2,116.7 2,444.3
Revenue from customers located in the rest of the world includes £230.4m (2014: £169.9m) from customers in Asia. Revenue from customers in individual countries 
within the EU (except the UK) and the rest of the world is not considered to be individually material. Included in non-current assets located in EU countries other than 
the UK are assets of £232.0m (2014: £229.9m) located in Denmark.  
      
4. Operating costs
Operating costs include materials costs of £664.0m (2014: £628.8m) within cost of sales in the Income Statement.     
Company funded research and development
£m 2015 2014
Company funded research and development 138.0 96.9
Employment costs and employee numbers
The aggregate employment costs are as follows:       
£m Note 2015 2014
Wages and salaries 604.9 519.9
Social security costs 49.5 43.8
Pension costs 22 30.8 31.0
Share based payments 26 (3.0) 6.1
682.2 600.8
The average number of employees during the year, analysed by segment, is as follows:      
2015 2014
Communications and Connectivity 4,487 3,841
Mission Systems 1,556 1,465
Advanced Electronic Solutions 3,590 2,802
Aviation Services 2,468 2,405
Head office and other activities 426 428
Total Group 12,527 10,941 91
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Compensation of key management personnel      
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: 
     
£m 2015 2014
Salaries and other employee benefits 7.3 5.8
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.4
Share based payments (1.4) 1.6
6.1 7.8
Audit fees      
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates, as follows:   
   
£m 2015 2014
Annual audit of the Parent Company and Group Financial Statements 1.0 1.0
Audit of the Company's subsidiaries 1.2 1.2
Fees payable for audit services 2.2 2.2
T ax compliance services 0.3 0.3
Other tax advisory services 1.0 1.3
Other audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Services relating to corporate finance transactions – 1.5
Fees payable for other services 1.4 3.2
Total fees payable to the auditors 3.6 5.4
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 57 and includes an explanation of how auditor 
objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.      
5. Finance income and costs
£m Note 2015 2014 
Bank interest 3.1 4.5
Other finance income 2.1 1.9
Total finance income 5.2 6.4
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (52.8) (30.9)
Interest on net pension scheme liabilities 22 (3.1) (3.6)
Other finance expense (1.1) (5.2)
Total finance costs (57.0) (39.7)
Net finance costs (51.8) (33.3)
Other finance expense for 2014 includes £2.6m of arrangement fees for the Aeroflex acquisition finance facility and unwinding of acquisition related discounting 
of £1.0m. These costs are excluded from underlying profit in note 2.    92
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
6. Taxation
£m Note 2015 2014 
Charge for the year 39.8 46.6
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (10.8) (14.3)
Current tax 29.0 32.3
Credit for the year (38.2) (41.9)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 7.1 5.6
Impact of change in tax rates – (0.7)
Deferred tax 20 (31.1) (37 .0)
Total tax credit for the year (2.1) (4.7)
Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction. The total tax credit for the year includes 
a charge of £9.2m (2014: £5.5m credit) for the UK. 
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting result as follows:
£m 2015 2014 
(Loss)/profit before tax (39.8) 24.3
T ax thereon at the UK income tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (8.1) 5.2
Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates (12.3) (2.9)
Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief (1.6) (2.1)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (3.7) (8.7)
Impact of tax treatment of divestments 24.4 –
Impact of other items (0.8) 3.8
Total tax credit for the year (2.1) (4.7)
In addition the following charges/(credits) have been included in OCI and equity: 
Included in OCI
£m 2015 2014 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial gain/(loss) on retirement benefit obligations 5.9 (4.7)
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations – (0.3)
5.9 (5.0)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.9
Included in equity
£m 2015 2014 
Share based payments 1.1 (1.5)
The rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 23% to 21% on 1 April 2014 and 20% on 1 April 2015.   
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 93
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
7. Dividends
£m 2015 2014
Final dividend of 7 .746p per share for 2014 (201 3: 7 .04p) 87.7 75.5
Interim dividend of 3.05p per share for 2015 (2014: 2.904p)  34.4 32.8
Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 122.1 108.3
In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 8.13p per share at an estimated 
total cost of £91.5m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial 
statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at 29 April 2016. The total dividend in respect of 
the financial year ended 31 December 2015 will therefore be 11.18p per share (2014: 10.65p). The total amount payable in respect of 2015 will be £125.9m.   
      
8. Earnings per ordinary share
2015 2014
Earnings  
£m
Weighted 
average 
number  
of shares 
million
Per share 
amount 
pence
Earnings  
£m
Weighted  
average  
number  
of shares 
million
Per share  
amount  
pence
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent (37.8) 1,129.9 (3.35) 28.8 1,108.0 2.60
Effect of potentially dilutive securities – 6.4
Diluted EPS (37.8) 1,129.9 (3.35) 28.8 1,114.4 2.58
Potentially dilutive securities are unvested awards under the Group’s share based payment schemes described in note 26.      
   
9. Cash and cash equivalents and net debt
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net debt
£m Note 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents per Cash Flow Statement 294.0 224.3
Bank overdrafts 0.7 1.3
Cash and cash equivalents per Balance Sheet 294.7 225.6
Borrowings – current liabilities 17 (156.4) (1.5)
Borrowings – non-current liabilities 17 (1,345.1) (1,446.8)
Net debt at 31 December (1,206.8) (1,222.7)
Details of the offsetting of overdrafts with cash and cash equivalents and other financial instruments can be found in note 14.      
Reconciliation of movements in net debt
£m 2015 2014
Net debt at 1 January (1,222.7) (453.4)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year per Cash Flow Statement 82.9 56.5
New borrowings (257.9) (1,467 .5)
Repayment of borrowings 271.0 699.9
Exchange movements (80.1) (58.2)
Net debt at 31 December (1,206.8) (1,222.7) 94
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
10. Intangible assets
Arising on business combinations
£m Goodwill
Customer 
relationships
Technology 
based assets
Order book 
and trade 
names
Development 
costs
Software  
and other Total
Cost
At 1 January 2014 874.5 302.9 166.6 45.8 2.1 51.5 1,443.4
Additions – – – – – 12.9 12.9
Recognised on business combinations (as restated) 429.7 307.7 189.8 16.4 – 1.1 944.7
Disposals and derecognitions – (20.4) – – – (1.8) (22.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments (as restated) 24.5 12.6 2.2 0.8 (0.1) 0.8 40.8
Reclassifications – – – – – 3.4 3.4
At 1 January 2015 (as restated) 1,328.7 602.8 358.6 63.0 2.0 67.9 2,423.0
Additions – – – – – 16.9 16.9
Business divestments (65.9) (49.1) (12.0) – – (0.6) (127.6)
Reclassified as held for sale (81.3) (11.0) (7.5) – – (3.3) (103.1)
Derecognitions – (13.7) (65.7) (15.3) (1.7) (2.1) (98.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments 19.1 16.2 5.1 0.5 – 0.3 41.2
Reclassifications – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 31 December 2015 1,200.6 545.2 278.5 48.2 0.3 79.5 2,152.3
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 63.0 108.2 77.7 8.5 1.1 22.7 281.2
Amortisation charge for the year – 50.3 47.5 15.8 0.6 4.2 118.4
Disposals and derecognitions – (20.4) – – – (1.7) (22.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments – 3.5 (1.2) – – 0.6 2.9
Reclassifications – – – – – 1.8 1.8
At 1 January 2015 63.0 141.6 124.0 24.3 1.7 27.6 382.2
Amortisation charge for the year – 82.2 63.2 31.4 0.2 3.8 180.8
Eliminated on business divestments – (10.9) (5.5) – – (0.4) (16.8)
Impairment provision 71.4 – 1.2 – – 1.2 73.8
Reclassified as held for sale (81.3) (11.0) (7.5) – – (3.3) (103.1)
Derecognitions – (13.7) (65.7) (15.3) (1.7) (2.1) (98.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 5.1 (1.4) 0.1 (0.1) 0.4 4.4
At 31 December 2015 53.4 193.3 108.3 40.5 0.1 27.2 422.8
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 1,147.2 351.9 170.2 7.7 0.2 52.3 1,729.5
At 31 December 2014 (as restated) 1,265.7 461.2 234.6 38.7 0.3 40.3 2,040.8
At 1 January 2014 811.5 194.7 88.9 37.3 1.0 28.8 1,162.2
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 95
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Amortisation charged during the year relating to intangible assets recognised on business combinations was £176.8m (2014: £113.6m). This has been excluded from 
underlying profit in note 2. All amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses in the Income Statement.      
      
During the year £44.8m of goodwill related to the Surveillance businesses was impaired and these businesses were then transferred to held for sale. An impairment 
provision of £26.6m was also created during the year representing the goodwill held for the T elerob business within the Mission Systems Sector, based on the results 
of the annual impairment review.
        
Customer relationships represents customer lists, customer contracts and the associated benefits of customer relationships recognised on acquisition. T echnology 
based assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology, and know-how recognised on acquisition. Other intangible assets represent 
purchased patents, licences and trademarks. Intangible assets recognised on business combinations are derecognised when they have been fully amortised.
Goodwill and annual impairment review       
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately 
recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group.       
  
The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit (CGU) annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might 
be impaired. CGUs are typically considered to be Business Units. 
       
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise. Businesses held for sale 
are assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment.  
       
The calculation of recoverable value for CGUs based on value in use includes the following key assumptions:
 − Cash flow forecasts for the following five years prepared as part of the annual strategic planning process and approved by management, updated where 
appropriate for more recent forecasts. These forecasts take into account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as the 
continued uncertainty within certain markets in which we operate. The growth rates assume that demand for the Group’s products in the US and in the 
UK remains broadly in line with the underlying economic environment and a recovery from the current weakness in the Marine SATCOM market. They also 
assume the realisation of planned synergy benefits from the committed integration plans for the Aeroflex businesses. T aking into account the expectation 
of future market conditions, management believe that the evolution of selling prices and direct costs will reflect past practices; 
 − Growth rates assumed after this five year period are based on long term GDP projections of the primary market for the CGU. The long term projections used 
are in the range 1.2% to 2.5% (2014: 1.5% to 2.0%); 
 − Cash flows are discounted using the Group’s WACC, adjusted for country and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates. These 
pre-tax discount rates are within the range 9.2% to 1 1.0% (2014: 8.3% to 10.5%);
 − Cash flows include the impact of working capital and fixed asset requirements; and
 − Cash flows include management charges which allocate central overheads to the CGUs.        
The Directors consider CGUs to be individually significant where the goodwill allocated to a CGU represents more than 10% of the Group’s total carrying value of 
goodwill. These CGUs, representing 71% of total goodwill, are as follows:         
CGU Operating segment
Goodwill  
carrying value  
£m
Headroom 
£m
Pre-tax  
discount rate
Projected 5 
year growth 
rate
Projected GDP  
growth rate
Integrated Electronic Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 220 131 9.6% 11.0% 1.9%
Semiconductor Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 215 5 9.6% 14.0% 1.9%
SATCOM Communications and Connectivity 222 288 9.4% 13.0% 1.4%
Wireless Communications and Connectivity 153 198 9.3% 7.0% 2.0%
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs. Semiconductor Solutions forms part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014 and therefore is initially 
expected to have low headroom. For this CGU impairment losses would be £99m if the discount rate was increased to 11.5%, £68m if the growth rate was zero and 
£93m if cash flows reduced by 20%. No impairment losses would arise on any of the other significant CGUs under these flexed assumptions. If the integration of the 
other Aeroflex businesses is not successfully implemented resulting in lower than assumed synergy benefits then the headroom in these CGUs would be significantly 
reduced. Sensitivity analysis included considering the current market weakness in Marine SA TCOM and, assuming that the market returns to expected levels within 
the next five years, no impairment provision would be required. The Directors have not identified any other likely changes in other significant assumptions that would 
cause the carrying value of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.         96
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings Plant and 
machinery 
(including 
aircraft and 
vehicles)
Fixtures,  
fittings,  
tools and  
equipment
Payments on 
account and  
assets under 
construction Total £m Freehold Long leases Short leases
Cost
At 1 January 2014 88.4 32.1 6.6 605.8 87.7 19.4 840.0
Additions 0.7 0.7 1.6 37.1 8.4 15.1 63.6
Acquired with business combinations 11.3 3.0 0.5 29.7 2.9 1.2 48.6
Disposals (0.8) (2.1) (0.4) (16.0) (6.0) – (25.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.9 0.9 0.4 (0.2) 0.7 0.6 4.3
Reclassifications 3.6 0.8 (0.2) 5.5 0.1 (13.2) (3.4)
At 1 January 2015 105.1 35.4 8.5 661.9 93.8 23.1 927.8
Additions 2.7 1.2 0.3 77.2 4.0 13.6 99.0
Business divestments (7.0) (1.0) (5.1) (24.4) (5.5) (0.2) (43.2)
Disposals (9.9) (2.3) – (24.4) (4.0) – (40.6)
Reclassified as held for sale (0.4) (2.1) (0.1) (9.7) (5.9) – (18.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.9 0.9 0.3 (5.8) 0.4 0.7 (1.6)
Reclassifications 1.3 – – 5.4 1.4 (9.5) (1.4)
At 31 December 2015 93.7 32.1 3.9 680.2 84.2 27.7 921.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 28.0 14.5 5.3 377.5 63.9 – 489.2
Depreciation charge for the year 3.4 4.5 1.0 52.0 11.2 – 72.1
Eliminated on disposals (0.4) (1.9) (0.4) (14.9) (5.8) – (23.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 0.5 0.4 – 0.3 – 1.7
Reclassifications – 0.3 (0.1) (0.1) (1.9) – (1.8)
At 1 January 2015 31.5 17.9 6.2 414.5 67.7 – 537.8
Depreciation charge for the year 4.1 2.7 0.7 61.0 4.5 – 73.0
Eliminated on business divestments (2.9) – (4.3) (12.8) (3.4) – (23.4)
Eliminated on disposals (2.7) (2.1) – (21.6) (3.9) – (30.3)
Reclassified as held for sale (0.2) (0.8) – (7.2) (5.8) – (14.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 0.5 – (2.5) (0.1) – (1.6)
Reclassifications 0.3 (0.1) – (0.6) 0.8 – 0.4
At 31 December 2015 30.6 18.1 2.6 430.8 59.8 – 541.9
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 63.1 14.0 1.3 249.4 24.4 27.7 379.9
At 31 December 2014 73.6 17.5 2.3 247.4 26.1 23.1 390.0
At 1 January 2014 60.4 17.6 1.3 228.3 23.8 19.4 350.8
At 31 December 2015, the Group had commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of £29.3m (2014: £48.5m).    
12. Investment properties  
£m 2015 2014
Carrying amount at 1 January 10.4 9.9
Acquired with business combinations – 0.8
Disposals (6.0) (0.3)
Depreciation (0.2) (0.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.3
Carrying amount at 31 December 4.3 10.4
The fair value of the Group’s remaining investment properties has been assessed to be £6.6m (2014: £13.9m). For 2015 and 2014, these values are based on Directors’ 
estimates using observable market data, taking into account current lease terms.       
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to £1.2m (2014: £1.4m), which is net of all direct costs associated with the 
leasing of the properties except depreciation. The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms of 10, 11 and 25 years which commenced 
between 1998 and 2013.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 97
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
13. Inventories
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Raw materials and consumables 187.2 191.8
Work in progress 220.1 221.4
Finished goods and goods for resale 51.9 66.4
Allowance for obsolescence (48.8) (50.1)
410.4 429.5
Work in progress includes £58.5m (2014: £59.9m) which relates to customer funded engineering development contracts.     
During the year £18.5m (2014: £17.4m) was provided, £4.6m (2014: £9.3m) was utilised and £10.5m (2014: £8.1m) of the allowance for obsolescence was reversed.   
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary. The amounts are generally 
determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand. Subsequent events may give rise to these estimates being revised and, consequently, 
to the reversal of amounts previously provided.     
    
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses. Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating to long term contracts 
expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to £17.1m (2014: £18.1m).
14. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are categorised as follows: 
£m Note
Loans and 
receivables
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss Amortised cost
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Financial assets 
Trade receivables 15 286.3 – – – 286.3 286.3
Other receivables 15 114.7 – – – 114.7 114.7
Cash and cash equivalents 9 294.7 – – – 294.7 294.7
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – 11.2 – – 11.2 11.2
Other financial assets – – 6.1 – 6.1 6.1
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 17 – – (1,501.5) – (1,501.5) (1,604.1)
Trade payables 18 – – (145.9) – (145.9) (145.9)
Accruals 18 – – (121.7) – (121.7) (121.7)
Other financial liabilities 18 – – (42.6) – (42.6) (42.6)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – (40.2) – – (40.2) (40.2)
Hedging instruments
Assets 21 – – – 4.4 4.4 4.4
Liabilities 21 – – – (4.3) (4.3) (4.3)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 (1,138.8) (1,241.4)
Financial assets
Trade receivables 15 331.4 – – – 331.4 331.4
Other receivables (as restated) 15 117.4 – – – 117.4 117.4
Cash and cash equivalents 9 225.6 – – – 225.6 225.6
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – 13.6 – – 13.6 13.6
Other financial assets – – 6.1 – 6.1 6.1
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 17 – – (1,448.3) – (1,448.3) (1,549.1)
Trade payables 18 – – (145.0) – (145.0) (145.0)
Accruals (as restated) 18 – – (135.2) – (135.2) (135.2)
Other financial liabilities 18 – – (103.8) – (103.8) (103.8)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – (32.9) – – (32.9) (32.9)
Hedging instruments
Assets 21 – – – 2.7 2.7 2.7
Liabilities 21 – – – (3.3) (3.3) (3.3)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 (as restated) (1,171.7) (1,272.5) 98
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Borrowings are held at amortised cost which equates to fair value except for the Group’s fixed rate borrowings. At 31 December 2015 the fair value of those 
borrowings was £976.1m (2014: £926.5m) compared to their book value of £873.5m (2014: £825.7m). The fair value of the fixed rate borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices and rates.        
 
Other financial assets relate to Cobham plc’s investments in connection with the Voyager (FST A) project which are held at cost, totalling £6.1m (2014: £6.1m).   
      
Gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are shown in note 21. The total interest income and expense for financial 
assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is as shown in note 5.       
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the Balance Sheet include overdraft balances on currency cash pooling accounts which have been offset as the accounts 
will be settled on a net basis as described in note 23. Master netting agreements also cover all bank balances and derivative balances with the same counterparty. 
These do not meet the criteria for offsetting because the right to offset is only enforceable on the occurrence of future events such as a default and amounts 
presented in the Balance Sheet are therefore presented on a gross basis. 
If full offsetting by counterparty were to be applied, the resulting net amounts would be as follows:
£m
Gross amounts 
before set off
Amounts set 
off in the 
Balance Sheet
Amounts as 
presented in 
the Balance 
Sheet
Amounts not 
set off in the 
Balance Sheet Net amount
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 778.8 (484.1) 294.7 (6.1) 288.6
Derivative financial assets 15.6 – 15.6 (12.8) 2.8
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (484.8) 484.1 (0.7) 0.7 –
Derivative financial liabilities (44.5) – (44.5) 18.2 (26.3)
At 31 December 2015 265.1 – 265.1 – 265.1
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 250.6 (25.0) 225.6 (3.3) 222.3
Derivative financial assets 16.3 – 16.3 (14.6) 1.7
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (26.3) 25.0 (1.3) 1.3 –
Derivative financial liabilities (36.2) – (36.2) 16.6 (19.6)
At 31 December 2014 204.4 – 204.4 – 204.4
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 99
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
15. Trade and other receivables
Current
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Trade receivables (net of provision for impairment) 286.3 331.4
Accrued income 28.1 47.7
Loans and other receivables 15.3 18.6
Prepayments 36.3 37.6
366.0 435.3
Non-current
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Accrued income 37.8 20.4
Loans and other receivables 33.5 30.7
71.3 51.1
Impairment of trade receivables
£m 2015 2014
Trade receivables 289.6 334.1
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (3.3) (2.7)
Net trade receivables 286.3 331.4
A significant proportion of the Group’s business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where credit risk 
is considered to remain low. Information concerning management of credit risk is shown in note 23. Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables 
during the current and prior year were not individually significant. 
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: 
£m 2015 2014
Amounts not yet due and not impaired 219.0 258.8
Amounts past due but not impaired 64.8 71.3
Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 5.8 4.0
289.6 334.1
Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows:     
£m 2015 2014
Less than 1 month overdue 41.2 44.1
1 month overdue 11.8 12.1
2 months overdue 5.0 5.6
3 or more months overdue 6.8 9.5
64.8 71.3
Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets.      100
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
16. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
During the second half of 2015, a decision was made to divest the Group’s Surveillance businesses, part of the Communications and Connectivity Sector, and this was 
completed on 15 January 2016. Accordingly, the following assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015 and 
are measured on a non-recurring basis at fair value, based on the agreed selling price of US$10m less costs to sell:     
£m 2015 2014
Property, plant and equipment – 2.1
Inventories 3.9 –
Trade and other receivables 12.9 –
Total assets classified as held for sale 16.8 2.1
Trade payables and other liabilities (11.5) –
Provisions (1.2) –
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (12.7) –
Total non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 4.1 2.1
17. Borrowings
£m 2015 2014
Bank overdrafts 0.7 1.3
Bank loans 100.7 –
Senior notes 54.9 –
Finance leases 0.1 0.2
Total current borrowings 156.4 1.5
Bank loans 471.8 569.8
Senior notes 872.9 877.0
Finance leases 0.4 –
Total non-current borrowings 1,345.1 1,446.8
Total borrowings 1,501.5 1,448.3
The Group’s principal borrowings include bank overdrafts, bank loans and senior notes. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and accrue interest at floating rates. 
Bank loans comprise the following:         
Amount drawn Undrawn facilities
£m Agreement date Maturity date 2015 2014 2015 2014
Fixed rates 
US$75m credit agreement December 2008 December 2016 50.9 48.1 – –
Floating rates 
US$360m multi-currency revolving credit 
agreement comprising: October 201 1
US$90m October 2016 49.8 45.8 11.4 11.9
US$270m October 2018 149.1 137.5 34.1 35.7
EUR70m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2018 41.6 52.2 10.0 2.1
DKK525m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2018 – 18.1 51.8 36.6
AUS$90m multi-currency revolving facility February 2014 October 2018 29.0 30.8 15.4 16.4
Acquisition finance facility May 2014 May 2016 – 237.3 – –
US$185m facility agreement May 2015 October 2018 125.5 – – –
EUR1 31m and US$40m loan agreements May 2015 May 2020 123.7 – – –
EUR4m loan agreement May 2015 May 2022 2.9 – – –
572.5 569.8 122.7 102.7
Floating rate bank loans accrue interest at LIBOR or other appropriate benchmark plus margin. 
The acquisition finance facility originally drawn in September 2014 was partially repaid in October 2014 and fully repaid in May 2015, funded by new floating rate Euro 
and US dollar loans.         
Under the US$75m agreement, which expires in 2031, the lender has a series of put options exercisable every three years from December 2016.    
     
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 101
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Senior notes with a total principal value of US$1,367.5m (2014: US$1,367.5m) are outstanding as set out below:      
  
£m Issue date Maturity date 2015 2014
US$81m fixed rate March 2009 March 2016 54.9 51.9
US$50m floating rate May 2010 May 2017 33.9 32.1
US$105m floating rate January 2010 February/March 2018 71.2 67.3
US$157 .5m fixed rate March 2009 March 2019 106.9 101.0
US$44m fixed rate October 2012 October 2020 29.9 28.3
US$930m fixed rate comprising: October 2014
US$75m October 201 7 50.9 48.1
US$180m October 2019 122.1 115.4
US$250m October 2021 169.7 160.3
US$425m October 2024 288.3 272.6
927.8 877.0
The loan and note subscription agreements include both financial and non-financial covenants but do not contain any provisions for charges over Group assets. The 
terms of the financial covenants are based on adjusted IFRS results and are shown on page 29. There have been no breaches of the terms of agreements or defaults 
during the current or comparative periods.         
18. Trade and other payables
Current liabilities
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Payments received on account 59.4 82.2
Trade payables 145.9 145.0
Other taxes and social security 23.5 31.7
Deferred income 12.8 21.1
Accruals 117.8 130.4
Amounts outstanding on purchase of shares of Aeroflex Holding Corp. – 51.3
Other liabilities 38.7 43.8
398.1 505.5
Non-current liabilities
£m 2015 2014
Payments received on account 5.2 8.6
Deferred income 11.8 13.9
Accruals 3.9 4.8
Other liabilities 3.9 8.9
24.8 36.2 102
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
19. Provisions
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Current liabilities 74.3 60.5
Non-current liabilities 68.2 66.5
142.5 127.0
Movements in provisions during the year are as follows: 
£m
Provisions 
related to 
businesses 
divested
Restructuring 
provisions
Warranty 
claims
Contract loss 
provisions
Aircraft 
maintenance 
provisions Other Total
At 1 January 2015 (as restated) 10.8 46.4 12.1 30.2 3.2 24.3 127.0
Additional provisions in the year 4.7 17.2 5.3 11.7 2.9 7.9 49.7
Reclassified as held for sale – – (0.1) – – (1.1) (1.2)
Utilisation of provisions – (5.3) (5.6) (16.9) (0.8) (5.7) (34.3)
Unused amounts reversed in the year – (0.3) (1.0) (0.4) (1.6) (0.3) (3.6)
Disposed with undertakings – – (0.4) – – (0.6) (1.0)
Reclassifications – – – 2.1 0.2 (0.3) 2.0
Foreign exchange adjustments – 2.9 (0.1) 0.1 (0.2) 1.2 3.9
At 31 December 2015 15.5 60.9 10.2 26.8 3.7 25.4 142.5
Provisions related to businesses divested include amounts related to divestments completed in 2015 and longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 
2005. Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing of settlement of these items, they have been disclosed as current liabilities. 
Restructuring provisions mainly relate to announced business restructuring in connection with the integration of Aeroflex into the Cobham Group. These are generally 
expected to be utilised within one year although the balance includes IT provisions expected to be utilised in the next three years and onerous lease provisions which 
are not expected to be fully settled until 2025.  
Provisions for warranty claims and contract losses are generally expected to be utilised within one year.    
Aircraft maintenance provisions relate to significant periodic maintenance costs as well as return conditions for leased aircraft and are anticipated to crystallise in  
the next six years. Other provisions include amounts provided in respect of legal claims and environmental obligations and are mostly expected to be settled within 
one year.  
        
20. Deferred tax
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Deferred tax assets (11.4) (10.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 102.0 134.5
90.6 124.0
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon:      
£m
Intangible 
assets
Property, plant 
and equipment
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
At 1 January 2014 73.5 18.3 (18.4) (30.4) 43.0
(Credit)/charge to income statement (19.1) 4.3 2.6 (24.8) (37 .0)
(Credit)/charge to OCI – – (4.7) 0.6 (4.1)
Credit to reserves – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Business combinations (as restated) 157.1 0.1 – (35.8) 121.4
Business divestments (0.7) – – – (0.7)
Foreign exchange adjustments (as restated) 5.4 0.9 – (4.0) 2.3
At 1 January 2015 (as restated) 216.2 23.6 (20.5) (95.3) 124.0
(Credit)/charge to income statement (37.0) (18.0) 3.3 20.6 (31.1)
Charge to OCI – – 5.9 0.4 6.3
Charge to reserves – – – 1.5 1.5
Business divestments (11.0) (0.6) – (0.8) (12.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments 6.9 – – (3.9) 3.0
Reclassifications – – – (0.7) (0.7)
At 31 December 2015 175.1 5.0 (11.3) (78.2) 90.6
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 103
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities shown above include balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, accruals, deferred compensation, 
share based payments and derivative financial instruments.  
    
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance sheet 
purposes are analysed as follows:      
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Deferred tax liabilities fall due:
Within one year 25.8 6.6
After one year 76.2 127.9
102.0 134.5
Deferred tax assets are recoverable:
Within one year (8.5) (7.1)
After one year (2.9) (3.4)
(11.4) (10.5)
Without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, deferred tax balances are as follows:
£m
Intangible 
assets
Property, 
 plant and 
equipment
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
Deferred tax assets – (5.1) (11.3) (101.6) (118.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 175.1 10.1 – 23.4 208.6
At 31 December 2015 175.1 5.0 (11.3) (78.2) 90.6
Deferred tax assets – (1.5) (20.5) (105.3) (127.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 216.2 25.1 – 10.0 251.3
At 31 December 2014 (as restated) 216.2 23.6 (20.5) (95.3) 124.0
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused capital losses of £63.0m (2014: £66.0m) potentially available for offset against future capital profits in certain 
circumstances. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future qualifying profit streams. These losses 
can be carried forward indefinitely.      
      
The unprovided tax on unremitted earnings as at 31 December 2015 is considered to be immaterial.       
      
The rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017. As this had been substantively enacted prior to 31 December 2015, 19% has been used 
to calculate UK deferred taxes where the liability is expected to crystallise after 1 April 2017.
      104
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
21. Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
£m
Interest  
rate swaps 
 Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
Non-current assets – 6.5 – 6.5
Current assets – 9.1 – 9.1
Current liabilities (0.5) (28.9) (1.2) (30.6)
Non-current liabilities (1.8) (10.9) (1.2) (13.9)
Fair value at 31 December 2015 (2.3) (24.2) (2.4) (28.9)
Non-current assets – 7.6 – 7.6
Current assets – 8.7 – 8.7
Current liabilities (0.7) (19.2) (0.8) (20.7)
Non-current liabilities (2.6) (10.7) (2.2) (15.5)
Fair value at 31 December 2014 (3.3) (13.6) (3.0) (19.9)
The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the year are as follows:
£m
Interest  
rate swaps 
 Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
At 1 January 2014 (3.2) 6.3 (3.4) (0.3)
(Loss)/gain through income statement – not hedged – (22.6) 0.3 (22.3)
Gain reclassified to income statement 1.3 – – 1.3
(Loss)/gain through OCI – hedged items (1.4) 2.9 – 1.5
Foreign exchange adjustments – (0.2) 0.1 (0.1)
At 1 January 2015 (3.3) (13.6) (3.0) (19.9)
(Loss)/gain through income statement – not hedged – (10.9) 0.4 (10.5)
Gain reclassified to income statement 1.1 – – 1.1
Loss through OCI – hedged items (0.3) (0.3) – (0.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 0.6 0.2 1.0
At 31 December 2015 (2.3) (24.2) (2.4) (28.9)
Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and hedge accounting is applied. In addition, a small number of specific foreign exchange 
derivatives with a fair value at 31 December 2015 of £2.4m (2014: £2.7m) are designated as cash flow hedging instruments or as hedging instruments for net 
investment hedging purposes, and hedge accounting is applied. There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges to be reported through the Income 
Statement.  
     
The majority of foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted for using hedge accounting. Movements in fair values are recorded in the Income 
Statement within administrative expenses and are excluded from underlying profit in note 2. Also excluded from underlying profit are losses of £8.3m (2014: gain 
£0.5m) arising from the movement in fair values of currency swaps which offset movements in currency balances held, and gains and losses arising on foreign 
exchange derivatives related to dividend flows within the Group. 
     
Full details of the Group’s financial instrument accounting policies and risk management strategies, objectives and policies are set out in the accounting policies in 
note 1 and in note 23, financial risk management. 
      
22. Retirement benefit schemes
Retirement benefit obligations per the Balance Sheet consist of:
£m 2015 2014
Defined benefit scheme assets 663.9 670.6
Defined benefit obligations (720.6) (772.6)
(56.7) (102.0)
Pension expense included in employment costs in note 4 are as follows:
£m 2015 2014
Defined benefit schemes 2.7 5.5
Defined contribution schemes 28.1 25.5
30.8 31.0 105
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit schemes (where benefits are based on employees’ length of service and average final salary), the most 
significant being the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP). The assets of all of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of 
trustees. All defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members since 2003 and the UK schemes will be closed to future accrual from 1 April 2016. The 
Group also manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements, where the Group’s contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees’ pay.  
     
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to a number of risks, as described below:
       
 − Volatility of investment returns. If the investment return is lower than the discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields then the scheme deficit  
will increase;       
 − Inflation risk. Pensionable salaries, deferred pensions and pensions in payment are subject to inflationary increases. A higher inflation rate will lead to higher 
defined benefit obligations;       
 − Changes in bond yields. Volatility in the financial markets can have a significant impact on corporate bond yields which are used to generate a discount rate 
assumption. Lower corporate bond yields will lead to higher defined benefit obligations;       
 − Life expectancy risk. The schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member and therefore increases in life expectancy will lead to higher 
defined benefit obligations.       
The trustees seek to mitigate these risks and have invested in liability driven investments that mitigate bond yield, inflation and investment risks. The remaining assets 
include significant investment in diversified growth funds which seek to manage investment risks. In addition there have been a number of buy-in arrangements 
where assets are transferred to an insurance company in return for a qualifying insurance policy which provides an income stream equivalent to the obligations to 
pensioners covered by the arrangement. The most significant buy-in arrangement relates to pensioners of the CPP as at 1 July 2013. The insurance contract assets 
are measured at a value equal to the related liabilities, mitigating the risks associated with those liabilities.       
Actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP are carried out on a triennial basis by qualified independent actuaries; the 
most recent valuation was as at 1 April 2015. This involves a detailed review of membership movements and generated experience gains of £12.2m recognised in 
the year. Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at regular intervals as required by the applicable country regulations. The actuarial valuations 
were updated by qualified independent actuaries for accounting purposes to 31 December 2015. In the UK, within 15 months of each triennial valuation, the 
employer and the trustees are required to agree a schedule of contributions to ensure that the Plan is fully funded over time on a suitably prudent basis. The Group 
expects to contribute £19.1m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2016 and £18.4m in 2017. This includes £17.6m (2017: £17.6m) related to deficit funding.
             
In November 2015, following member consultation, it was agreed that the CPP will be closed to future accrual from 1 April 2016. This has resulted in the recognition 
of curtailment gains amounting to £9.8m in the Income Statement. This is partly offset by increased commutation factors, of £7.1m, recognised as a past service cost. 
£1.5m of curtailment gains arose from the Group’s restructuring activity and has been treated as non-underlying.      
 
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2015 or 2014 for the defined benefit schemes. £0.7m (2014: £1.3m) was outstanding in respect of 
defined contribution schemes but not due for payment at 31 December 2015.       
The principal financial assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows:       
2015 2014
UK  
schemes
USA  
scheme
UK  
schemes
USA  
scheme
Rate of increase in salary costs 3.45% 3.45% 3.45% 3.45%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment unless overridden by specific scheme rules 3.20% 3.20% 3.20% 3.20%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.20% 3.20% 2.20% 3.20%
Discount rate 3.80% 4.13% 3.50% 3.50%
Inflation assumption 3.20% 3.20% 3.20% 3.20%
The mortality assumptions used for the CPP are based upon actuarial tables which reflect actual recent mortality experience and also allow for future mortality 
improvements. The mortality tables used to estimate life expectancy are known as ‘SAPS CMI 14’ (2014: SAPS CMI 13). In practical terms, this is demonstrated in the 
table below:       
Year of birth Year age 65
Further life 
expectancy
Male 1950 2015 22.8 years
Female 1950 2015 24.8 years
Male 1980 2045 25.6 years
Female 1980 2045 27.7 years
At 31 December 2015 it has been assumed that members will commute on average 25% (2014: 20%) of their pension for cash at retirement.
The sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in certain key assumptions, after adjusting for liabilities covered by insurance contracts, is provided below:  
Change in assumption Change in liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.5% -4%
Inflation rate Increase by 0.5% +3%
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year +2%
If the change in assumptions were in the opposite direction to that shown above, the impact would be approximately symmetrical.      106
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
A summary of the movements in the net liability and the amounts recognised in the Income Statement and OCI are as follows:     
  
2015 2014
£m
Scheme 
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Scheme  
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Current service cost included in administrative expenses – (6.9) (6.9) – (5.5) (5.5)
Past service cost included in administrative expenses – (7.1) (7.1) – – –
Gain on curtailment included in administrative expenses – 9.8 9.8 – – –
Gain on curtailment included in business restructuring – 1.5 1.5 – – –
Scheme administration expenses (0.7) – (0.7) (0.6) – (0.6)
Amounts recognised in operating profit (0.7) (2.7) (3.4) (0.6) (5.5) (6.1)
Net interest 23.5 (26.6) (3.1) 26.0 (29.6) (3.6)
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance expense 23.5 (26.6) (3.1) 26.0 (29.6) (3.6)
Actual return less interest income on pension scheme assets (26.3) – (26.3) 65.2 – 65.2
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities – 12.2 12.2 – 0.1 0.1
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes  
in financial assumptions – 38.1 38.1 – (96.3) (96.3)
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes  
in demographic assumptions – 5.6 5.6 – 3.3 3.3
Amounts recognised in OCI (26.3) 55.9 29.6 65.2 (92.9) (27.7)
Employer contributions 22.7 – 22.7 23.0 – 23.0
Member contributions 1.8 (1.8) – 2.6 (2.6) –
Benefits paid (28.7) 28.7 – (24.2) 24.2 –
Amounts included in Cash Flow Statement (4.2) 26.9 22.7 1.4 21.6 23.0
Exchange differences 1.0 (1.5) (0.5) 1.0 (1.3) (0.3)
Net movement in the year (6.7) 52.0 45.3 93.0 (107 .7) (14.7)
Net liability at start of year 670.6 (772.6) (102.0) 577.6 (664.9) (87.3)
Net liability at end of year 663.9 (720.6) (56.7) 670.6 (772.6) (102.0)
UK schemes 649.2 (692.8) (43.6) 653.3 (745.2) (91.9)
US scheme 14.7 (27.8) (13.1) 17.3 (27.4) (10.1)
Net liability at end of year 663.9 (720.6) (56.7) 670.6 (772.6) (102.0)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in OCI since transition to IFRS is £206.2m (2014: £235.8m). Of the actuarial losses recognised in the year, the 
changes in financial assumptions are primarily driven by the movements in the discount rate.
       
The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of £2.8m (2014: £91.1m gain). The weighted average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 18 years.  
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets, is as follows:      
 
 2015 2014
£m % £m %
UK equity instruments 55.7 8.4% 56.7 8.5%
Overseas equities 26.7 4.0% 27.6 4.1%
Emerging markets equities 18.1 2.7% 18.4 2.7%
Liability driven investments 60.9 9.2% 108.4 16.2%
Corporate bonds 4.8 0.7% 4.8 0.7%
Diversified growth funds 160.5 24.2% 153.1 22.8%
Insurance contracts 287.6 43.3% 299.5 44.7%
Other assets including cash 49.6 7.5% 2.1 0.3%
663.9 100.0% 670.6 100.0%
Scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.    107
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Other retirement benefit schemes
The assets and liabilities of other immaterial retirement benefit schemes are as follows:       
 2015 2014
£m Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
French indemnity schemes – (4.0) – (4.2)
German based schemes 3.3 (3.4) 3.5 (3.7)
US based schemes 1.8 (2.2) 1.9 (5.8)
5.1 (9.6) 5.4 (13.7)
The actuarial loss for these schemes in the year to 31 December 2015, recognised in OCI, was £nil (2014: £0.7m). The net liabilities are included in other liabilities in 
note 18. The German based schemes are substantially covered by insurance policies.       
23. Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks which include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance 
of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt and other instruments, including interest rate swaps. Other derivative financial instruments may be 
used from time to time to manage exposures such as inflation risk. The financial risk management policies agreed by the Board have not changed during the year and 
are summarised below. The Group does not trade in financial instruments. 
      
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is based in the UK, reports in sterling and has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, Australia and other European countries. As a 
result, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries’ exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to reduce, or eliminate where practical, 
both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk and, consequently, the net foreign exchange gains and losses included in the Income Statement amounted 
to a gain of £12.1m (2014: £5.8m). All currency exposures are reviewed regularly and all significant foreign exchange transactions are approved by Cobham plc 
management.         
The Group has the following exposure to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities in the Balance Sheet, translated into sterling at the 
relevant year-end exchange rates:        
2015 2014 Restated
£m
Monetary  
assets
Monetary 
liabilities
Monetary  
assets
Monetary  
liabilities
US dollars 340.9 (1,569.7) 350.1 (1,614.9)
Euros 100.2 (143.5) 109.4 (82.8)
Australian dollars 30.6 (42.0) 47.4 (45.8)
Danish kroner 4.1 (53.9) 16.1 (77.7)
Other currencies 30.4 (8.4) 45.5 (11.7)
506.2 (1,817.5) 568.5 (1,832.9)
Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 225.8 (108.6) 143.5 (128.8)
732.0 (1,926.1) 712.0 (1,961.7)
Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange differences arising from the Group’s overseas net assets. The Group 
typically borrows in the currency of the acquisition and uses intercompany debt to create a natural economic hedge. Monetary liabilities in the table above include 
US dollar borrowings of £1,330.2m (2014: £1,305.4m) and Danish krone borrowings of £41.6m (2014: £71.0m) which match exposures arising from currency 
denominated net assets. Foreign currency contracts are also used to manage exposure to currency risks.        
 
On consolidation, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries (which include the monetary assets and liabilities shown in the table above) are translated at closing 
exchange rates and exchange differences arising are accounted for in OCI and through the translation reserve (note 25).      
   
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in the income statement where individual subsidiaries hold non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and 
when an operating unit makes sales and purchases in currencies other than its own functional currency. The Group undertakes a formal process to actively manage 
and mitigate this exposure through a combination of matching non-functional currency revenues and costs, matching non-functional currency monetary assets and 
liabilities and through the use of forward contracts.          108
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
The sterling/US dollar and Danish krone/US dollar exchange rates are the most important for the Group. The Group has the following forward foreign currency 
contracts outstanding for net sales of US dollars for sterling and Danish kroner:        
US$m 
amount
Average US$: £ 
exchange rate
2015 2014 2015 2014
Expiring within one year 108.9 110.9 1.53 1.60
Expiring within one to two years 62.4 14.7 1.52 1.54
Expiring after two years 37.0 47.6 1.57 1.56
US$/sterling contracts outstanding at 31 December 208.3 173.2 1.53 1.58
 
US$m 
amount
Average US$: DKK 
exchange rate
2015 2014 2015 2014
Expiring within one year 148.5 138.1 5.65 5.53
Expiring within one to two years 95.1 125.1 6.16 5.47
Expiring after two years 1.7 28.3 6.07 5.34
US$/DKK contracts outstanding at 31 December 245.3 291.5 5.85 5.49
The latest expiry date of forward foreign currency contracts for sales of US dollars is July 2022 and it is the Group’s current belief that the net dollar receipts by its 
subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitments. 
       
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currencies, with a negative number indicating a reduction 
in profit after taxation or total equity. The sensitivities below represent management’s assessment of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, based on 
experience over the previous five years.          
2015 2014
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars to sterling 8% (13.9) (13.9) 9% (8.0) (8.0)
US dollars to Danish kroner 12% (16.5) (16.5) 12% (18.4) (18.4)
Euros to sterling 8% (4.9) (4.9) 8% (4.2) (4.2)
This sensitivity analysis has been based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout the financial year and that all other variables, including interest 
rates, remain constant. It includes the effect of derivative financial instruments. 
In order to provide comparable information, sensitivity has also been assessed based on a 10% weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currency,  
as follows:         
2015 2014
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars to sterling 10% (17.8) (17.8) 10% (9.1) (9.1)
US dollars to Danish kroner 10% (13.4) (13.4) 10% (15.0) (15.0)
Euros to sterling 10% (6.3) (6.3) 10% (5.4) (5.4)
Interest rate risk
The Group has long and short term borrowings at both fixed and floating rates of interest. In managing its borrowing costs, the Group monitors its exposure to 
movements in interest rates, having regard to prevailing market conditions and, where necessary, uses interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk.   
      . 
£m 2015 2014
Senior notes 822.7 777 .6
Bank loans at fixed rate 50.8 48.1
Bank loans swapped to fixed rate 24.1 30.8
Fixed rate borrowings 897.6 856.5
Bank loans and overdrafts 498.3 492.2
Senior notes 105.1 99.4
Finance leases 0.5 0.2
Floating rate borrowings 603.9 591.8
Total borrowings 1,501.5 1,448.3
All floating rate borrowings have regular repricing dates.
         109
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, have been used to mitigate the interest rate exposure arising on selected floating rate debt. 
Interest rate swaps outstanding at the year end are as follows:          
Period of swap contract 2015 2014
Hedged item Fixed rate from to
Currency  
value £m
Currency  
value £m
Australian dollar loans 6.30% May 2006 January 2020 AUS$41.5m 20.5 AUS$49.7m 26.1
6.40% January 2007 January 2020 AUS$7.2m 3.6 AUS$9.0m 4.7
24.1 30.8
The Group does not currently hold any fair value hedging instruments such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps.       
        
Surplus funds are placed on short term fixed rate deposit and as such also give rise to interest rate exposure. There was no material sensitivity to changes in interest 
rates at the year end.         
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing liquidity risk throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long term borrowings with lenders. Overdraft and 
revolving credit facilities provide short term flexibility whilst the revolving credit facilities provide longer term committed funding.      
   
As shown in note 17, at 31 December 2015 undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £122.7m (2014: £102.7m) were available to the Group in various currencies.  
      
At an operating level, the Group has a positive cash flow from operating activities and where practical the funds generated by business units are managed on a 
regional basis. In the UK and US, most business units utilise local bank facilities within a UK or USA group arrangement. This allows a balance to be maintained 
between continuity of funding, security and flexibility.         
        
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s borrowings and other financial liabilities, including derivative financial liabilities. The 
amounts shown are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which include interest, analysed by contractual maturity. The difference between the contractual cash 
flows and the carrying amount of these liabilities reflects the effects of interest not included in the carrying amount and discounting applied in assessing fair value.   
        
£m
Within  
one year 1–2 years 2–5 years
Over  
5 years Total
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings 206.6 163.2 837.0 513.5 1,720.3
Trade and other payables 292.8 2.4 2.9 2.5 300.6
At 31 December 2015 499.4 165.6 839.9 516.0 2,020.9
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.9 0.7 0.8 – 2.4
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows 459.4 140.6 25.3 10.4 635.7
Gross cash inflows (430.5) (131.8) (24.8) (9.7) (596.8)
Inflation swap 1.2 0.9 0.3 – 2.4
At 31 December 2015 31.0 10.4 1.6 0.7 43.7
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings 48.5 418.7 688.2 529.3 1,684.7
Trade and other payables (as restated) 361.7 3.4 5.5 4.6 375.2
At 31 December 2014 (as restated) 410.2 422.1 693.7 533.9 2,059.9
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1.1 0.9 1.3 – 3.3
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows 464.2 100.1 22.7 – 587.0
Gross cash inflows (446.1) (90.8) (20.2) – (557.1)
Inflation swap 0.8 1.1 1.1 – 3.0
At 31 December 2014 20.0 11.3 4.9 – 36.2 110
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.    
        
The Group has a conservative policy towards the credit risk related to liquid funds and derivative financial instruments with balances currently spread across a range 
of reputable financial institutions. The levels of credit risk are monitored through the Group’s ongoing risk management processes, which include a regular review of 
the banks’ credit ratings. Risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level for term deposits with any one counterparty.     
    
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Customers are typically large 
global companies or government agencies with long term trading relationships. The Group also has in place procedures that require appropriate credit checks on 
potential customers before sales are made. Existing customer accounts are monitored on an ongoing basis and appropriate action is taken where necessary to 
minimise any credit risk. The Directors therefore believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for impaired receivables shown 
in note 15.         
        
Group management monitor the ageing of receivables which are more than one month overdue and debtor days on a regular basis. At 31 December 2015,  
9.6% (2014: 9.2%) of gross trade receivables were overdue by one month or more.         
        
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2015 is the fair value of each class of receivable as disclosed in note 15.      
          
Bank term balances totalling £6.1m (2014: £6.2m) have been pledged against the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020.   
        
In the UK and the USA, the Group has master netting arrangements in respect of bank balances. In the normal course of business, these bank accounts are settled 
on a net basis within each currency and as such are presented net in the Balance Sheet as shown in note 14. In the event of an automatic enforcement event, the 
bank balances are automatically set off against each other to achieve a net position.        
Derivatives can also be offset by counterparties in the event of a default; net amounts that result on this basis are shown in note 14.     
Inflation risk
The Group’s exposure to inflation is considered to be a general business risk which is mitigated through normal commercial activity. The Group has one swap contract 
which was designed to manage the inherent inflation risk in a specific operational contract. The fair value of this swap contract is included in derivative financial 
instruments shown in note 21.        
Capital risk management
Group policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain stakeholder confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Capital is defined as 
total equity excluding non-controlling interests and amounted to £908.8m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £1,111.4m). Within this overall policy, the Group seeks to 
maintain an appropriate finance structure through a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding needs are reviewed periodically and also each time a significant 
acquisition or business divestment is made. A number of factors are considered which include the net debt/EBITDA ratio, future funding needs (usually potential 
acquisitions) and proposed dividend levels. Group banking arrangements are also considered; these include financial covenants which are based on adjusted IFRS 
results as outlined on page 29. This policy has been reviewed by the Board on a regular basis during the year and, given the current economic climate, continues to 
be considered appropriate.         
24. Share capital
Number  
of shares
2015  
£m
Number  
of shares
2014  
£m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of par value 2.5p 1,479,200,000 37.0 1,479,200,000 37.0
6% second cumulative preference shares of £1  20,000 – 20,000 –
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of par value 2.5p 1,214,527,625 30.4 1,214,527,625 30.4
As at 31 December 2015, 89,634,016 (2014: 82,231,281) ordinary shares were held in treasury including 13,682,292 (2014: 6,279,557) shares held in the Cobham 
Employee Benefit Trust. At 31 December 2015, the market value of treasury shares was £253.8m (2014: £266.3m), including shares with a market value of £38.7m 
(2014: £20.3m) held by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.     
During the year ended 31 December 2015, treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and options under the Group’s share based payment schemes. The net cost 
of treasury shares after receipts from option exercises is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.      
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc can be found on page 67.      111
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
25. Other reserves
£m Note
Translation  
reserve
Hedge  
reserve
Share based 
payment 
reserve
Total other 
reserves
At 1 January 2014 32.2 (2.5) 25.5 55.2
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (16.8) – – (16.8)
Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operation (1.9) – – (1.9)
Movements on cash flow hedges – interest rate swaps 21 0.1 (1.4) – (1.3)
Movements on cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – 2.9 – 2.9
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1.3 – 1.3
Transfer of share based payment reserve on exercise – – (3.3) (3.3)
Share based payments recognised in reserves 26 – – 6.1 6.1
Tax effects – (0.9) 1.5 0.6
Foreign exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2015 13.6 (0.7) 29.8 42.7
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (29.2) – – (29.2)
Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operations 28 (9.0) – – (9.0)
Movements on cash flow hedges – interest rate swaps 21 0.2 (0.3) – (0.1)
Movements on cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – 0.1 – 0.1
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1.1 – 1.1
Transfer of share based payment reserve on exercise – – (1.5) (1.5)
Share based payments recognised in reserves 26 – – (3.0) (3.0)
Tax effects – (0.2) (1.1) (1.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 (24.4) (0.1) 24.2 (0.3)
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries whose functional currencies differ from 
the Group’s reporting currency together with foreign exchange movements arising on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.    
     
The hedge reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives as detailed in notes 21 and 23. 
    
The share based payment reserve includes the cost of awards as assessed under IFRS 2 and detailed in note 26, together with related deferred tax provided under  
IAS 12. The appropriate proportion of this reserve is transferred to retained earnings following vesting or exercise.      
26. Share based payments
The Group offers a number of long term incentive schemes which provide a mix of performance based incentive and retention based awards as described below and 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 63. All schemes are equity settled and the total amount included in the Income Statement arising from share 
based payment schemes is as follows:        
£m 2015 2014
PSP 2.1 6.8
RSP 1.3 0.7
Other schemes 0.7 0.7
Release of amounts charged in previous years (7.1) (2.1)
(3.0) 6.1
During the year ended 31 December 2015, £7.1m (2014: £2.1m) charged to the Income Statement in previous years has been released, reflecting actual vesting 
experience and a reassessment of the expected future vesting of outstanding awards, based on non-market related performance conditions.    
     
The PSP scheme is offered to senior executives across the Group and allows for annual grants of conditional shares and nil-cost options with vesting conditions based 
on the Group’s financial performance, taking into account both market based conditions such as TSR growth and non-market based measures such as EPS growth 
or cash conversion respectively. The scheme includes retention awards granted during 2014 and buy-out awards granted to key new starters, both vesting after a 
maximum of three years conditional only upon continued employment within the Group.         
RSP awards provide conditional shares based solely on continued employment within the Group. Awards vest either in full after three years, or over a four year period, 
with 25% vesting on each anniversary.
       
In previous years, share options were awarded to senior executives under the ESOS and BCP schemes. No new awards have been made under the ESOS since 2013. 
The BCP provided matching shares where bonus awards were invested in shares and was last awarded in 2014, only to the Group CEO. The Group’s ShareSave 
scheme is open to all UK employees.        
         112
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
The number of awards outstanding at 31 December are as follows:        
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2015 2014
PSP 10,026 10,380
RSP 1,317 543
ESOS 4,031 5,914
BCP 22 118
ShareSave 5,979 5,908
At 31 December 21,375 22,863
Details of movements in the awards under the PSP scheme are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2015 2014
At 1 January 10,380 8,544
Awards granted 3,591 5,171
Awards forfeited or cancelled (3,713) (2,491)
Exercised (88) (802)
Expired (144) (42)
At 31 December 10,026 10,380 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of PSP awards outstanding 1.24 years 1.46 years
Number of PSP awards exercisable at 31 December (thousands) 87 40
Awards under the PSP schemes were granted in March and April 2015, with an average fair value of £2.835 (2014 awards: £2.833). Fair values are calculated using the 
Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the likely impact of market related performance conditions. The weighted 
average inputs into the models were as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average share price £3.058 £3.065
Expected life 2.98 years 2.82 years
Expected employee cancellation rate 4.4% 4.1%
Risk free rate 0.6% 0.9%
The expected lives used in the models have been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability and behavioural 
considerations. The expected employee cancellation rates are based on assessments of historic rates of voluntary cancellations of contracts by employees. Most 
participants of the PSP schemes receive the benefit of dividend payments and therefore dividend yields are not taken into consideration in the valuation models.  
      
The fair values of ESOS and ShareSave awards are significantly lower than for PSP, RSP and BCP awards due to the effect of the exercise price which is set based upon 
the market value of the Company’s ordinary shares around the date of grant.         
27. Business combinations (prior year restatement)
In the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, the fair values of assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition of the Aeroflex businesses 
were marked as provisional. An ongoing detailed review of these amounts has resulted in adjustments which have reduced net assets acquired by £46.0m, with an 
equal increase in goodwill. 
In accordance with IAS 8, the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014 has been restated. The assets and liabilities impacted are summarised in the 2014 Balance 
Sheet extract below. The other primary statements were unaffected by this restatement.
£m Note
As previously 
reported Adjustments As restated
Goodwill 10 1,219.7 46.0 1,265.7
Intangible assets 10 777 .5 (2.4) 775.1
Trade and other receivables 15 53.3 (2.2) 51.1
Total non-current assets (including line items not affected) 2,478.2 41.4 2,519.6
Inventories 13 431.4 (1.9) 429.5
Trade and other receivables 15 436.6 (1.3) 435.3
Total current assets (including line items not affected) 1,104.8 (3.2) 1,101.6
Trade and other payables 18 (503.6) (1.9) (505.5)
Provisions 19 (54.1) (6.4) (60.5)
Total current liabilities (including line items not affected) (699.1) (8.3) (707 .4)
Provisions 19 (13.3) (53.2) (66.5)
Deferred tax 20 (157.8) 23.3 (134.5)
Total non-current liabilities (including line items not affected) (1,771.6) (29.9) (1,801.5)
Net assets 1,112.3 – 1,112.3 11 3
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
28. Business divestments
A number of divestments have been completed during the year: 
       
 − Weinschel and Inmet, Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector (announced on 24 April 2015 and completed on 8 June 2015);     
 − Cobham Composites, primarily Communications and Connectivity Sector (announced on 10 August 2015 and completed on 25 November 2015);  
 − Wireless operations in Nanjing, China, Communications and Connectivity Sector (completed on 2 November 2015);   
 − Metelics, Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector (announced and completed on 15 December 2015). 
         
The profit on these divestments, which has been excluded from trading profit, can be analysed as follows:
£m
Weinschel  
and Inmet Composites
Metelics 
 and other Total
Gross consideration 52.4 133.6 27.1 213.1
Net assets at date of divestment (66.6) (50.2) (41.8) (158.6)
Expenses of sale (1.5) (4.7) (2.6) (8.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.9 1.9 3.3 8.1
Net profit/(loss) on divestments before tax (12.8) 80.6 (14.0) 53.8
T ax charge on net profit/(loss) on divestments (12.8) (8.0) (2.5) (23.3)
Net profit/(loss) on divestments after tax (25.6) 72.6 (16.5) 30.5
The net cash impact of the divestments is as follows:
£m
Weinschel  
and Inmet Composites
Metelics 
 and other Total
Cash consideration 52.4 133.6 27.1 213.1
Expenses of sale (1.5) (4.5) (1.9) (7.9)
50.9 129.1 25.2 205.2
The net assets divested during the year were as follows:    
£m
Weinschel  
and Inmet Composites
Metelics 
 and other Total
At date of divestment
Attributable goodwill 34.4 12.3 19.2 65.9
Other intangible assets 30.3 1.0 13.6 44.9
Property, plant and equipment 3.5 11.9 4.4 19.8
Inventories 7.4 20.8 5.8 34.0
Trade and other receivables 3.5 10.7 4.0 18.2
Trade and other payables including provisions (3.5) (4.7) (3.6) (11.8)
Deferred tax (9.0) (1.8) (1.6) (12.4)
Net assets 66.6 50.2 41.8 158.6
At 31 December 2014
Attributable goodwill 33.7 12.1 16.8 62.6
Other intangible assets 31.9 2.4 16.1 50.4
Property, plant and equipment 3.6 9.9 4.6 18.1
Inventories 7.6 10.9 4.8 23.3
Trade and other receivables 4.3 9.3 4.7 18.3
Cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts (0.2) 4.0 1.4 5.2
Trade and other payables including provisions (3.4) (9.2) (3.3) (15.9)
Deferred tax (10.4) (0.4) (6.7) (17.5)
Net assets 67.1 39.0 38.4 144.5 114
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
29. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:  
£m 2015 2014
Within one year 27.7 41.8
Between one and two years 24.9 24.0
Between two and three years 23.0 23.3
Between three and four years 20.9 20.1
Between four and five years 14.8 16.2
After five years 61.1 53.6
172.4 179.0
Operating lease payments during the year totalled £30.1m (2014: £27.3m) including rental costs of £7.5m (2014: £6.9m) relating to operational aircraft used in its 
service businesses; the remainder primarily relates to the rental of office and operating facilities.      
Operating lease commitments include £20.0m (2014: £12.0m) related to onerous leases which have been provided for at the balance sheet date.   
   
30. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2015, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising 
in the ordinary course of business. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within the Group 
Financial Statements.
      
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to various legal proceedings and claims and management do not anticipate that the 
outcome of these, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.     
 
As previously notified, the Group identified one, more significant, contractual breach dating back some years, in respect of goods provided into a geographic market 
representing only a small amount of revenue for the Group. The circumstances surrounding the breach remain under review and neither the outcome nor timing of 
resolution can be estimated. No further information is disclosed as it could be prejudicial. 
     
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the 
ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could materially impact the Group’s future reported earnings. In particular, on fixed price development 
contracts, costs incurred and anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally 
agreed under the contracts. Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, the outcome of negotiations with customers and the 
amounts recoverable under these contracts. The Directors take account of the advice of experts in making these judgements and believe that the outcome of 
negotiations will result in an appropriate recovery of costs incurred in excess of original baselines.   
   
31. Related party transactions
There were no material transactions between Group entities and joint ventures and associates during the current or previous year other than £0.5m (2014: £1.0m) of 
goods purchased from related parties. Group policy is for all sales of goods to related parties to be made on an arms length basis and no guarantees have been given 
to, or received from, related parties. No expense has been recognised for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.    
    
Details of the compensation of key management personnel (the Group Executive Committee as referred to on page 48) can be found in note 4.    
     
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. Details of Directors’ 
remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 66.          11 5
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
32. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings
The Group operates through a number of subsidiary undertakings and a full listing of these as at 31 December 2015 is provided below. The Group owns 100% of the 
share capital of all subsidiaries with the exception of TEAM SA (98.7% owned).
    
The Group also has interests in a small number of joint ventures and one associated undertaking which are included in the list below. The joint ventures and associates 
all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are indirectly held, and the country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of 
operation. No further disclosures are provided concerning the assets and results of the joint ventures or associated undertaking on the basis of materiality.  
 
Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking
Principal 
operating 
entity
Place of 
incorporation  
(or registration) 
and operation
Cobham Communications and Connectivity
Aerospace Communications
Avionics, connectivity, slip rings and microwave systems for air and space 
platforms at the leading edge of technological development for defence, 
security and commercial aerospace customers. 
Air Précision SAS
Chelton Avionics, Inc
Chelton Telecom and Microwave SAS
TEAM SA
Label SAS
Chelton Antennas SA
Northern Airborne Technology Limited
Credowan Limited
Hyper-Technologies SAS
Precision Aviation Industries SARL
Groupement Troyen d’Electronique
Satori Air Services Inc
Société de Marquage et Signalisation SAS
Micro-Mesh SARL
NAT Seattle Inc.
Cobham Slip Rings Naples Inc.
France
USA
France
France
France
France
Canada
England
France
France
France
Canada
France
France
USA
USA
Antenna Systems
Advanced, ultra-reliable integrated systems for avionics, radar, surveillance 
and SATCOM applications.
Chelton Limited 
Chelton, Inc
Cobham CTS Limited 
Cobham Defence Communications Limited
European Antennas Limited
Mastsystem International Oy
Cobham Defense Products, Inc.
Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC  
(50% joint venture)
Vector Fields Incorporated
Comant Industries Incorporated
Sivers Lab AB
England
USA
England
England 
England
Finland
USA 
USA 
USA
USA
Sweden
SA TCOM
Satellite and radio communication terminals for land, sea and air. 
Sea Tel, Inc
Thrane & Thrane A/S
Omnipless Manufacturing (Pty) Limited
Thrane & Thrane Aalborg A/S
Thrane & Thrane Norge A/S
Thrane & Thrane Inc.
Philtech Co., Ltd (associate owned 30%) 
1
USA
Denmark
South Africa
Denmark
Norway
USA
South Korea
Surveillance 
2
High performance surveillance, communications and broadcast systems. Cobham TCS Limited
DTC Communications, Inc
Cobham do Brasil Equipamentos e Servicos Ltda
Cobham Surveillance GmbH
Cobham TCS PTE Limited
RVision, Inc.
Custom Federal, Inc.
RVision, LLC
Cobham Surveillance DAR Limited
Cobham Tracking & Locating Limited
Corp Ten International
Spectronic Denmark A/S
England
USA
Brazil
Germany
Singapore
USA
USA
USA
Canada
Canada
USA
Denmark
AvComm
Avionics, communications and synthetic test, monitoring and control for 
commercial, government and military applications.
Aeroflex Wichita, Inc. USA 116
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking
Principal 
operating 
entity
Place of 
incorporation  
(or registration) 
and operation
Wireless
Advanced wireless network coverage and mobile communications systems.
Aeroflex Limited 
Axell Wireless Limited
Aeroflex Ireland Limited
Aeroflex Asia Ltd. 
Aeroflex Japan KK
Aeroflex Technology Service (Beijing) Co. Ltd. 
Aeroflex Innovations (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.
Aeroflex Systems Private Limited
Aeroflex France SAS
Aeroflex GmbH
Aeroflex Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
Axell Wireless Israel Limited
Axell Wireless Asia Pte Limited
A-xell Wireless AB
Axell Wireless, Inc.
England
England
Ireland
Hong Kong
Japan
PRC
PRC
India
France
Germany
Singapore
Israel
Singapore
Sweden
USA
Cobham Mission Systems
Air-to-air refuelling, life support, weapons carriage and unmanned systems. Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc
Carleton Technologies, Inc
Flight Refuelling Limited 
3
Telerob Gesellschaft für 
Fernhantierungstechnik mbH
Cobham Mission Equipment Inc.
Sargent Fletcher Inc.
USA
USA
England
Germany
USA
USA
Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions
Microelectronic Solutions
RF microelectronic technologies to support the delivery of mission critical 
electronic warfare, missiles, communications, and radar applications. 
Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions, Inc.
4
Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Mexico, 
S.A. de C.V.
USA
Mexico
Integrated Electronic Solutions
Mission critical RF technology solutions serving defence, commercial 
aerospace, and space customers.
Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions, Inc.
4
Continental Microwave and Tool Co, Inc.
Trivec-Avant Corporation 
USA
USA
USA
Semiconductor Solutions
Standard HiRel ICs including memory, microprocessor, interconnect 
and power, and application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) for 
space, commercial, medical and industrial markets along with electronic 
manufacturing services.
Aeroflex Plainview, Inc.
4
Aeroflex Colorado Springs, Inc.
Aeroflex RAD Europe Limited
Aeroflex RAD, Inc. 
Cobham Gaisler AB
USA
USA
England
USA
Sweden
RFMW Solutions
Microwave and RF active and passive components, multi-function integrated 
microwave assemblies, synthesizers and interconnect subsystems.
Aeroflex Control Components, Inc.
Aeroflex Plainview, Inc.
4
Aeroflex Microelectronic Solutions, Inc.
USA
USA
USA
Cobham Aviation Services
Special Mission
Customised airborne surveillance, operational readiness training and search 
and rescue services. 
FR Aviation Limited
Surveillance Australia Pty Limited
National Air Support Pty Limited
Cobham SAR Services Pty Limited
Cobham Flight Inspection Limited
AFI Flight Inspection GmbH 
Cobham Leasing Limited
FR Aviation Services Limited
Aviation Défense Service SA (45% joint venture) 
5
England
Australia
Australia
Australia
England
Germany
England
England
France 1 17
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
 
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking
Principal 
operating 
entity
Place of 
incorporation  
(or registration) 
and operation
Helicopter Services
Helicopter operations, training and support for defence, government and 
commercial customers around the globe.
FB Heliservices Limited
FBH Cyprus Limited
FB Heliservices Kenya Limited
FB Leasing Limited
FBS Limited
England
Cyprus
Kenya
England
England
Commercial Services
Operation of the Australian Boeing 71 7 jet network for Qantas. Providers of 
flight crew and management of high capacity airline services across 
Australia as well as customised commercial aviation solutions with a focus 
on specialist support for resource sector projects and high capacity freight 
services.
National Jet Systems Pty Limited
National Jet Express Pty Limited
Jet Systems Pty Limited
Cobham Aviation Services Engineering Pty Limited
National Jet Systems Ground Handling Pty Limited
NAS Services Pty Limited
Glyndale Pty Limited
National Jet Operations Services Pty Limited
National Investments Asia Pacific Pty Limited 
Fleet Support Pty Limited
Asia Pacific Airlines Pty Limited
Asia Pacific Airlines (Papua New Guinea) Pty 
Limited
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia
Australia 
Australia
Papua New Guinea
Head office and other activities
Head office management, centralised functions and personnel. Aeroflex Incorporated
Cobham Holdings Inc.
Cobham India Private Limited
Cobham Management Services Inc.
Cobham Properties Inc.
Lockman Properties Limited
USA
USA
India
USA
USA
England
Investment holding companies
Managing investments in and provision of finance to  
group undertakings.
Aedion Investments Unit Trust
Aeroflex Holding Corp.
Aeroflex Test Solutions Limited 
AFI Holdings GmbH 
Avenue 64 Limited
Chelton Technologies Canada Limited
Cob Finance LLC 
Cobham AES Holdings Inc.
Cobham Holdings (US) Inc.
FR Aviation Group Limited
FR Investments Inc.
IFR Finance Inc. 
IFR Finance Limited Partnership
 6
IFR Systems, Inc. 
Lock Financing Limited 
Lockman Denmark Financing S.a.r.l.
Lockman Denmark Holdings A/S
Lockman Electronic Holdings Limited
Lockman Finance Limited
Lockman Financing Limited
Lockman Financing S.a.r.l
Lockman Investments Limited
Lockwash Investments LLC
Lockwash US Limited
Manlock Investments Limited
MCE Asia, Inc. 
Multiphase Pumping Systems Limited
Telerob Holding GmbH
Jersey
USA
England
Germany
England
Canada
USA
USA
USA
England
USA
USA
England
USA
Ireland 
Luxembourg
Denmark
England
England
England
Luxembourg 
England
USA
England
England
USA
England
Germany 118
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking
Place of 
incorporation  
(or registration) 
and operation
Dormant entities
Non-trading entities.
Aerial Facilities Limited 
7
Aeroflex Asia Pacific Limited
Aeroflex Bloomingdale, Inc. 
Aeroflex Burnham Limited
Aeroflex Cambridge Limited
Aeroflex SRL
Aeroflex Tech., SA
Aeroflex Test Equipment Services Limited 
7
Aeroflex UK Limited 
7
Air Precision Limited 
7
Chelton Aviation Corporation
Chelton Satcom, Inc.
Cobham Aviation SDN BHD
Cobham Aviation Services España, SL
Cobham Aviation Services International Limited
Cobham Communications and Connectivity Limited 
Cobham Fluid Systems Limited
Cobham Group Limited
Cobham Helicopter Services Trinidad
Cobham Mission Systems Limited
COMAR Products, Inc. 
CTS Patents Limited
Cobham Whiteley Limited (formerly domo Limited)
Falcon Special Air Services SDN BHD
FB Heliservices Curacao N.V.
Grenedere Limited
ML Aircraft Services Limited
ML Aviation Limited
National Jet Regional Services Pty Limited
Racal Antennas Limited
SeaTel Europe, Inc.
Shenick Network Nominees Limited
Smart Chemical Developments Limited
Strabor (Aircraft) Limited
Strabor Investments Limited
W.E.S. (Manufacturing) Limited
W.E.S. Investments Limited
Wallop Holdings Limited
England
England
USA
England
England
Italy
Spain
England
England
England
USA
USA
Malaysia
Spain
England
England
England
England
Trinidad & Tobago
England
USA
England
England
Malaysia
Curacao
England
England
England
Australia
England
USA
Ireland
England
England
England
England
England
England
1
 The address of the principal place of business of Philtech Co., Ltd is Sujeong-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.     
2
 All subsidiaries in the Surveillance SBU were divested 15 January 2016.
3
 Issued shares in Flight Refuelling Limited are held by Cobham plc. Otherwise shares are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc. 
4
 Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions, Inc. and Aeroflex Plainview, Inc. operate across a number of sites within more than one BU.    
5
  The 45% investment in Aviation Défense Service SA is treated as a joint venture because the governance structure means that the Group has joint control with its partner.
6
  Advantage has been taken of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements to prepare and publish audited 
accounts for IFR Finance Limited Partnership.
7
 Dissolved subsequent to 31 December 2015. 
           
33. Events after the balance sheet date        
On 15 January 2016 it was announced that the divestment of the Surveillance businesses had been completed for consideration of US$10m. These businesses were 
treated as held for sale at 31 December 2015 as shown in note 16. 119
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc
Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements
Our opinion  
In our opinion, Cobham plc’s Parent Company Financial Statements (the parent 
company financial statements):
 − Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs as  
at 31 December 2015;
 − Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 − Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
 − The Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
 − The Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
 − The Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)) 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is:
 − Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 − Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 − Otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and  
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 − We have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit; or
 − Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 − The financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: 
 − Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 − The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
 − The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Cobham plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Pauline Campbell  
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
2 March 2016 120
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Parent Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 December 2015
£m Note 2015
2014
Restated
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in Group and other undertakings 4 789.6 776.4
Other investments 4 6.1 6.1
Derivative financial instruments 9 11.3 14.3
Other receivables 5 18.3 18.3
825.3 815.1
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments 9 15.0 15.7
Trade and other receivables 5 2,376.2 1,977.7
Cash and cash equivalents 101.8 420.2
2,493.0 2,413.6
Current liabilities
Borrowings 6 (215.3) (26.3)
Trade and other payables 7 (510.2) (496.5)
Provisions 8 (6.6) (6.6)
Derivative financial instruments 9 (31.6) (23.3)
(763.7) (552.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 6 (1,344.7) (1,446.8)
Derivative financial instruments 9 (12.8) (18.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 10 (22.4) (35.8)
(1,379.9) (1,500.6)
Net assets 1,174.7 1,175.4
Equity
Share capital 11 30.4 30.4
Share premium 301.9 301.9
Other reserves 13.3 17.5
Retained earnings 829.1 825.6
Total equity 1,174.7 1,175.4
The financial statements on pages 120 to 127 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 2 March 2016 and signed  
on its behalf by:       
   
   
Bob Murphy    Simon Nicholls
Directors  121
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other 
reserves
£m
Share 
capital 
Share 
premium
Hedge 
reserve
Share 
based 
payment 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Total equity at 1 January 2014 (as previously reported) 28.9 126.6 (2.5) 17.3 450.1 620.4
Effect of transition to FRS 101 (note 14) – – – – (24.8) (24.8)
Total equity at 1 January 2014 (as restated) 28.9 126.6 (2.5) 17.3 425.3 595.6
Profit for the year – – – – 511.7 511.7
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – – (9.7) (9.7)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (0.1) – 502.0 501.9
Net proceeds from treasury shares – – – – 3.3 3.3
Issue of shares 1.5 175.3 – – – 176.8
Dividends (note 2) – – – – (108.3) (108.3)
Share based payments (note 3) – – – 6.1 – 6.1
Transfer of share based payment reserve – – – (3.3) 3.3 –
Total equity at 31 December 2014 30.4 301.9 (2.6) 20.1 825.6 1,175.4
Profit for the year – – – – 143.9 143.9
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – – 5.1 5.1
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – 0.3 – – 0.3
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 0.3 – 149.0 149.3
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – – (24.9) (24.9)
Dividends (note 2) – – – – (122.1) (122.1)
Share based payments (note 3) – – – (3.0) – (3.0)
Transfer of share based payment reserve – – – (1.5) 1.5 –
Total equity at 31 December 2015 30.4 301.9 (2.3) 15.6 829.1 1,174.7
  
Retained earnings at 1 January 2014 as previously reported of £450.1m include £43.6m of other reserves reclassified as detailed in note 14. 
The share based payment reserve relates to provisions made in accordance with IFRS 2 for awards made to the Company’s employees under the Group’s share based 
payment schemes. Where awards which gave rise to charges under IFRS 2 have vested or been exercised, the appropriate proportion of the reserve is transferred to 
retained earnings.     
       
Profit for the financial year       
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of Cobham plc has not been separately 
presented in these financial statements.        
       
The audit fee in respect of the Parent Company Financial Statements was £49,000 (2014: £46,000).         122
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
1. Parent Company accounting policies
These financial statements are the financial statements for Cobham plc  
which operates as a group holding company and is the parent company  
of the Cobham plc Group.
Accounting convention
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101). The 
Company has early adopted the amendments to FRS 101 which were issued 
in July 2015. The Company transitioned from previous UK GAAP to FRS 101 
for all periods presented. Details of adjustments arising on transition can be 
found in note 14.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, under 
the historical cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of derivative 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss and in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under 
FRS101:
 
 − A cash flow statement and related notes (IAS 7 , Statement of Cash Flows 
and paragraph 10(d) of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements);
 − Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements comparative 
period reconciliations in respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1 (number of 
shares outstanding);
 − Capital management disclosures required by paragraphs 1 34–1 36 of IAS 1;
 − The requirements of paragraph 10(f) of IAS 1 (prior period balance sheet 
following a restatement); 
 − The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors concerning the effects of new 
but not yet effective IFRSs;
 − Details of compensation of key management personnel required by 
paragraph 1 7 of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures; and
 − The requirements in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions entered 
into between two or more members of a group. 
In addition, as the consolidated financial statements of Cobham plc include 
the equivalent disclosures, the following exemptions under FRS101 have also 
been taken:
 
 − Share based payment disclosures under paragraphs 45(b) and 46–52 of  
IFRS 2, Share Based Payment in respect of group settled share based 
payments; and
 − Financial instrument information required by IFRS 7 , Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures and paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS1 3, Fair value measurement. 
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and 
judgements that affect the application of accounting policies and reported 
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. These estimates and 
judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances. The current economic conditions 
have been considered when evaluating accounting estimates and judgements, 
including the application of the going concern basis of preparation. Although 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event 
or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation 
uncertainty at the balance sheet date, which have a significant risk of causing a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next 
financial year, relate to retirement benefit obligations. A number of assumptions 
are made in assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and 
liabilities, which include the long term rate of increase of salary costs, discount 
rate, inflation and mortality rates. The Company uses published indices and 
independent actuarial advice to select the values of critical assumptions. 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, are as 
set out below:
Dividends 
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are 
fully authorised. Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders’ right 
to receive payment has been established.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Company operates and participates in the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP) and 
the Cobham Executive Pension Plan (CEPP). The plans are funded defined benefit 
schemes and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The assets 
and liabilities of the CPP have been allocated to the contributing companies 
based on the proportional number of members. The Company also operates and 
contributes to a defined contribution scheme.
For the defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related to the 
administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit. Past service costs 
are recognised immediately in the income statement. The interest on net assets 
or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs. Actuarial remeasurements 
are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income (OCI).
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate 
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of 
equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations 
are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The 
resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face 
of the balance sheet.
For the defined contribution scheme, the amount charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits are 
the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable 
in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either accruals or 
prepayments in the balance sheet.
Current and deferred taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid using rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect 
of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
periods in which the asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis and deferred tax assets are 
only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates 
to items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the tax is also 
recognised in OCI or directly in equity respectively. Tax assets and liabilities 
are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same 
fiscal authority. 
Investments in Group and other undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision 
for impairment in value and include the fair value at the date of grant of share 
based payment awards to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts 
recovered as management charges.
Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value. 123
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will be 
required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Share capital
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. 
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific 
date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are 
not discretionary. Dividends on preference share capital classified as liabilities are 
recognised in the profit and loss account as interest expense. 
Treasury shares
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, 
the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration paid, including 
commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.
 
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. 
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are translated at the exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at 
the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items (such as investments) that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency (such as some derivative financial 
instruments) are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value was determined.
All exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement. 
Financial instruments 
The policies disclosed in note 1 to the Group Financial Statements on page 86 
for the recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments are 
applicable to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Other financial instruments 
Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries are recognised at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method and are reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, 
net of direct issue costs and subsequently held at amortised cost. Interest is 
accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement. Premiums payable 
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are capitalised and amortised 
over the period to which the facility relates. 
Share based payments
For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Group’s equity share 
based payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of awards as 
at the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the vesting 
period, taking into account management’s best estimate of the number of 
awards expected to vest. The vesting estimate, which includes progress against 
non-market related performance conditions, is reviewed and updated at each 
balance sheet date. The fair value of awards made to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges, is recognised 
as a capital contribution and recorded in investments.
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black–Scholes model, 
modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance 
criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
2. Dividends
£m 2015 2014
Final dividend of 7 .746p per share for 2014  
(201 3: 7.04p) 87.7  75.5 
Interim dividend of 3.05p per share for 2015  
(2014: 2.904p) 34.4 32.8
Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 122.1 108.3
Further details of the proposed final dividend of 11.18p per share in respect of 
the financial year ended 31 December 2015 are shown in note 7 to the Group 
Financial Statements. 
3. Share based payments  
Employees of Cobham plc participate in equity settled share based payment 
schemes which are operated by the Group for senior executives and also in the 
Group’s ShareSave scheme which is open to all UK employees.  
At 31 December, the following awards were outstanding under each scheme:
       
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2015 2014
PSP 3,050 3,695
RSP 123 23
ESOS 474 519
BCP 22 114
ShareSave 364 283
4,033 4,634
Options outstanding under the ESOS scheme had a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 2.3 years (2014: 3.3 years) and exercise prices which range 
from £1.84 to £2.33 (2014: £1.84 to £2.38). Options outstanding under the 
ShareSave scheme had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.1 years 
(2014: 2.2 years) and exercise prices which range from £1.48 to £2.41 (2014: 
£1.48 to £2.41). 
Exercises of awards under the ESOS and ShareSave schemes were made at 
various times throughout the year. The average share price in that period was 
£2.964p (2014: £2.988p).     
Further details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 60 to 63 and in note 26 to the Group Financial Statements. 
        124
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
4. Investments in Group and other undertakings
£m Shares
Share 
based 
payments Total
Cost and net book amount
At 1 January 2015 764.7 11.7 776.4
Additions in the year 12.6 – 12.6
Share based payment awards granted 
to employees of Group undertakings 
net of recoveries – 0.6 0.6
At 31 December 2015 777.3 12.3 789.6
During the year the Company purchased 2.8% of the ordinary share capital of 
Lockman Investments Limited that was previously held by another subsidiary. 
Lockman Investments Limited is now a 100% directly owned subsidiary of 
Cobham plc. 
   
In the opinion of the Directors the value of investments in subsidiary undertakings 
is not less than the aggregate amount at which they are shown above.
   
A list of all subsidiaries is provided in note 32 to the Group Financial Statements. 
The market capitalisation of the Group as a whole is given in the Group Financial 
Record on page 128.   
   
The Company has minority shareholdings in two companies in connection with 
the FST A programme. The total amount invested is £6.1m (2014: £6.1m) and this 
is held as a trade investment.    
5. Trade and other receivables
Current assets
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,360.4 1,959.9
Deferred tax 6.9 10.4
Prepayments and accrued income 8.9 7.4
2,376.2 1,977.7
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. 
All such balances, excluding trading balances, are interest bearing. 
The net deferred tax asset can be analysed as follows:
   
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Derivative financial instruments 1.8 2.0
Retirement benefit obligations 4.5 7.1
Share based payments 0.5 1.2
Accelerated capital allowances 0.1 0.1
6.9 10.4
Movements in the net deferred tax asset are as follows:   
     
£m
At 1 January 2015 10.4
Charge to reserves (1.4)
Charge to income statement (2.1)
At 31 December 2015 6.9
Non-current assets
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Loan notes 18.3 18.3
Loan notes relate to the FST A programme, are interest bearing and due for 
repayment in 2035. 
6. Borrowings
Current liabilities
£m 2015 2014
Bank overdrafts 59.7 26.3
Bank loans 100.7 –
Senior notes 54.9 –
215.3 26.3
Further details of the Company’s principal borrowing facilities are disclosed in 
notes 14 and 17 to the Group Financial Statements.   
       
Non-current liabilities
£m 2015 2014
Bank loans 471.8 569.8
Senior notes 872.9 877.0
1,344.7 1,446.8
The loans falling due after more than one year are due for repayment as follows:
       
£m 2015 2014
Between one and two years 41.6 331.1
Between two and three years 303.6 52.2
Between three and four years – 186.5
Between four and five years 123.7 –
After five years 2.9 –
471.8 569.8
Senior notes falling due after more than one year mature as follows:  
      
£m 2015 2014
Between one and two years 84.8 51.9
Between two and five years 330.1 363.9
After five years, maturing between 2021 and 2024 458.0 461.2
872.9 877.0
7. Trade and other payables
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Trade payables 2.3 3.7
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 484.6 465.9
Corporation tax payable 1.2 6.8
Other tax and social security 1.7 2.2
Accruals and deferred income 20.4 17.9
510.2 496.5
Interest is charged on amounts owed to Group undertakings at rates varying 
between 0.25% and 9.0%. These amounts are unsecured and are repayable  
on demand.   
8. Provisions     
Provisions of £6.6m (2014: £6.6m) relate to longer term warranties given on 
divestments completed in 2005. All amounts have been determined based on 
the Directors’ current estimates of likely outcomes and the timing of any claims 
remains uncertain.   125
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Derivative financial instruments  
The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign 
currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does 
not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Other derivative 
financial instruments may be used from time to time to manage exposures such 
as inflation risk. 
     
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows, these are 
financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, or financial liabilities 
categorised as held for trading:  
    
£m
Interest 
rate swaps 
Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
Non-current assets – 10.1 1.2 11.3
Current assets – 13.8 1.2 15.0
Current liabilities (0.5) (29.9) (1.2) (31.6)
Non-current liabilities (1.8) (9.8) (1.2) (12.8)
At 31 December 2015 (2.3) (15.8) – (18.1)
Non-current assets – 12.1 2.2 14.3
Current assets – 14.9 0.8 15.7
Current liabilities (0.7) (21.8) (0.8) (23.3)
Non-current liabilities (2.6) (13.2) (2.2) (18.0)
At 31 December 2014 (3.3) (8.0) – (11.3)
The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the 
year are as follows: 
    
£m
Interest 
rate swaps 
Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
At 1 January 2014 (3.2) 10.0 – 6.8
Loss through income 
statement – not hedged – (18.0) – (18.0)
Loss through OCI – hedged 
items (1.4) – – (1.4)
Gain reclassified to income 
statement 1.3 – – 1.3
At 1 January 2015 (3.3) (8.0) – (11.3)
Loss through income 
statement – not hedged – (7.6) – (7.6)
Gain reclassified to income 
statement 1.1 – – 1.1
Loss through OCI – hedged 
items (0.3) (0.2) – (0.5)
Foreign exchange 
adjustments 0.2 – – 0.2
At 31 December 2015 (2.3) (15.8) – (18.1)
Hedge accounting is applied for interest rate swaps and a small number of 
specific foreign exchange derivatives with a fair value at 31 December 2015 
of £1.5m (2014: £2.7m) which are designated as cash flow hedging instruments. 
There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges to be reported through 
the income statement. 
The majority of foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted 
for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are recorded in the 
income statement. 
The most significant assumptions in valuing the derivatives are the exchange 
rates for GBP: USD, GBP: DKK and GBP: EUR.   
10. Retirement benefit obligations 
Retirement benefit obligations in the Balance Sheet comprise: 
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Defined benefit scheme assets 349.0 275.0
Defined benefit obligations (371.4) (310.8)
(22.4) (35.8)
Defined benefit pension schemes   
The Company operates and participates in the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP) 
and the Cobham Executive Pension Plan (CEPP). The plans are funded defined 
benefit schemes (where benefits are based on employees’ length of service and 
average final salary) and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. 
The plans have been closed to new members since 2003 and will be closed to 
future accrual from 1 April 2016.      
  
Details of actuarial valuation processes and risks, assumptions and sensitivities 
relating to the CPP and CEPP are not significantly different to those disclosed in 
note 22 to the Group Financial Statements on page 105.    
    
The Company expects to contribute £8.5m to its defined benefit pension 
schemes in 2016 and £8.5m in 2017 related to deficit funding. There were 
no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2015 or 2014.  
     
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
      
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Opening defined benefit obligations 310.8 267.1
Current service cost 0.1 0.1
Past service cost 0.2 –
Interest cost 12.2 11.9
Actuarial losses arising from changes in 
financial assumptions 64.9 43.5
Actuarial gains arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions (4.3) (1.4)
Contributions by members 0.1 0.1
Gain on curtailment (0.2) –
Benefits paid (12.4) (10.5)
Closing defined benefit obligations 371.4 310.8
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:   
       
£m 2015
2014
Restated
Opening fair value of scheme assets 275.0 235.7
Interest 10.9 10.6
Actuarial gains 67.0 30.1
Scheme administration expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Contributions by members 0.1 0.1
Contributions by employers 8.6 9.2
Benefits paid (12.4) (10.5)
Closing fair value of scheme assets 349.0 275.0
      
The actual return on scheme assets was £77.9m (2014: £40.7m). The weighted 
average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 18 years.   126
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total 
scheme assets, is as follows:
2015 2014
£m % £m %
UK equity instruments 23.6 6.8% 17.5 6.4%
Overseas equities 13.7 3.9% 10.7 3.9%
Emerging markets equities 9.3 2.7% 7.1 2.6%
Liability driven investments 31.3 9.0% 42.1 15.3%
Insurance contracts 163.0 46.7% 137.7 50.1%
Diversified growth funds 82.6 23.6% 59.5 21.6%
Other assets 25.5 7.3% 0.4 0.1%
349.0 100.0% 275.0 100.0%
Scheme assets do not include any of the Company’s own financial instruments, 
nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Company. 
Defined contribution pension schemes
The Company also operates and participates in the Cobham Personal Pension 
Plan, a defined contribution scheme. The assets of the scheme are held 
separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. 
The pension cost charged represents contributions payable by the Company 
to the funds and amounted to £0.9m (2014: £0.9m). No contributions were 
outstanding at the end of 2015 or 2014.    
   
11. Share Capital 
£m 2015 2014
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Equity
1,214,527 ,625 (2014: 1,214,527 ,625) 2.5p 
ordinary shares 30.4 30.4
Non-equity
19,700 (2014: 19,700) 6% second cumulative 
preference shares of £1 – –
Preference shares with a value of £19,700 are classified as borrowings. 
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc, including changes resulting 
from treasury shares, can be found on page 67 and in note 24 to the Group 
Financial Statements.   
12. Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual 
performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of 
business entered into for, or on behalf of, certain Group undertakings.   
      
As the conditions of the above guarantees are currently being met, no obligating 
event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been made at the year end. 
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
13. Related party transactions
During the year the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course 
of business, with related parties that are part of the Cobham plc Group or 
investees of the Group. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
under paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101 from disclosing related party transactions with 
its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings. The only transactions with non-wholly 
owned subsidiaries relate to the receipt of management and brand charges 
totalling £1.0m (2014: £1.2m) from TEAM SA which is 98.7% owned. No amounts 
were outstanding at the current or prior year end.  
There were no material transactions with the Company’s Directors, their close 
family members or other connected parties to be reported during the year 
other than arising from Directors’ service agreements. Details of Directors’ 
remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
58 to 67.  
  
14. Transition to FRS 101 from previous UK GAAP 
As stated in note 1, these are the Company’s first financial statements prepared 
in accordance with FRS 101. The Company has early adopted the amendments 
to FRS 101 (issued in July 2015).
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, the comparative 
information presented in these financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2014 and in the preparation of an opening FRS 101 Balance 
Sheet at 1 January 2014 (the Company’s date of transition).
In preparing its FRS 101 Balance Sheet, the Company has adjusted amounts 
reported previously in financial statements prepared in accordance with its 
old basis of accounting (UK GAAP). The Company has also reformatted the 
presentation of its Balance Sheet. An explanation of how the transition from 
UK GAAP to FRS 101 has affected the Company’s financial position and 
performance, prior to the reformatting of the Balance Sheet, is set out below:
Reconciliation of equity
As at 31 December 2014
£m Note
UK 
GAAP 
Effect of 
transition 
to FRS 101 FRS 101
Fixed assets 
Investments in Group and other 
undertakings 776.4 – 776.4
Other investments 6.1 – 6.1
Derivative financial instruments 14.3 – 14.3
796.8 – 796.8
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments 15.7 – 15.7
Trade and other receivables a, b 1,988.4 (10.7) 1,977.7
Other receivables b – 18.3 18.3
Cash and cash equivalents 420.2 – 420.2
2,424.3 7.6 2,431.9
Trade and other payables: amounts 
falling due within one year c (155.5) (390.6) (546.1)
Net current assets 2,268.8 (383.0) 1,885.8
Total assets less current liabilities 3,065.6 (383.0) 2,682.6
Trade and other payables: amounts 
falling due after more than one year c (1,855.4) 390.6 (1,464.8)
Provisions for liabilities (6.6) – (6.6)
Retirement benefit obligations d – (35.8) (35.8)
Net assets 1,203.6 (28.2) 1,175.4
Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital 30.4 – 30.4
Share premium account 301.9 – 301.9
Other reserves e 61.1 (43.6) 17.5
Retained earnings e, f 810.2 15.4 825.6
Total equity 1,203.6 (28.2) 1,175.4 127
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  As at 31 December 2013
£m Note UK GAAP
Effect of 
transition 
to FRS 101 FRS 101
Fixed assets 
Intangible assets 0.1 – 0.1
Investments in Group and other 
undertakings 776.8 – 776.8
Other investments 6.1 – 6.1
Derivative financial instruments 18.1 – 18.1
801.1 – 801.1
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments 8.3 – 8.3
Trade and other receivables a, b 1,118.9 (11.7) 1,107 .2
Other receivables b – 18.3 18.3
Cash and cash equivalents 74.1 – 74.1
1,201.3 6.6 1,207 .9
Trade and other payables: amounts 
falling due within one year c (355.3) (403.5) (758.8)
Net current assets 846.0 (396.9) 449.1
Total assets less current liabilities 1,647.1 (396.9) 1,250.2
Trade and other payables: amounts 
falling due after more than one year (1,020.1) 403.5 (616.6)
Provisions for liabilities (6.6) – (6.6)
Retirement benefit obligations d – (31.4) (31.4)
Net assets 620.4 (24.8) 595.6
Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital 28.9 – 28.9
Share premium account 126.6 – 126.6
Other reserves e 58.4 (43.6) 14.8
Retained earnings e, f 406.5 18.8 425.3
Total equity 620.4 (24.8) 595.6
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2014
£m Note
Profit for the financial year per previous UK GAAP 505.4
Retirement benefit obligations d 7.6
Deferred tax related to retirement benefit obligations a (1.5)
Deferred tax related to share based payments a 0.2
Profit for the financial year per FRS 101 511.7
Notes to the reconciliation of equity and profit
a. Tax      
Changes in deferred tax represent the impact of deferred taxes on the 
adjustments necessary for the transition to FRS 101 and total £6.3m as at  
1 January 2014 and £7.1m as at 31 December 2014. Amounts affecting the 
income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 are £1.5m relating 
to retirement benefit obligations and £0.2m relating to a change in the basis 
of calculation of deferred tax for share based payments.    
    
b. Other receivables
Other receivables which are due after one year are now presented separately on 
the Balance Sheet.  
c. Trade and other payables
Amounts owed to Group undertakings have been reclassified from amounts 
falling due after more than one year to amounts falling due within one year upon 
transition to FRS 101.      
 
d. Pension 
Under UK GAAP, the Company accounted for the defined benefit pension 
schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes and the charge to the 
income statement therefore reflected payments for the year. Under FRS 101, 
the multi-employer exemption is no longer available and the Balance Sheets 
have been amended by £31.4m at 1 January 2014 and £35.8m at 31 December 
2014. The income statement impact of adopting FRS 101 for the year ended  
31 December 2014 was an increase in profit before tax of £7.6m, with a loss 
after tax of £9.7m impacting OCI.     
  
e. Other reserves 
The special reserve which arose under historic UK GAAP has been merged into 
retained earnings.
f. Retained earnings 
All the adjustments above were recognised against opening retained earnings 
and other reserves as at 1 January 2014. 
  
       128
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Group Financial Record
£m 2011 2012 2013
2014
Restated 2015
Revenue 1,854.4 1,749.4 1,789.7 1,851.7 2,072.0
Underlying profit before taxation 327.9 300.2 288.0 257.0 280.4
Profit/(loss) before taxation for the year 234.3 204.0 126.6 24.3 (39.8)
Taxation (46.3) (32.2) (12.1) 4.7 2.1
Profit/(loss) after taxation 188.0 171.8 114.5 29.0 (37.7)
Net assets employed
Intangible assets 917.6 1,102.1 1,162.2 2,040.8 1,729.5
Property, plant and equipment (including investment properties) 329.8 315.5 360.7 400.4 384.2
Investments 16.1 15.8 3.1 3.1 3.0
Other non-current assets 36.3 60.3 43.3 75.3 95.3
Current assets 983.7 877.9 849.9 1,101.6 1,105.6
2,283.5 2,371.6 2,419.2 3,621.2 3,317.6
Current liabilities (749.0) (576.4) (574.8) (707 .4) (797.2)
Non-current liabilities excluding retirement benefit obligations (444.2) (667.4) (712.9) (1,699.5) (1,554.0)
Net assets excluding retirement benefit obligations 1,090.3 1,127.8 1,131.5 1,214.3 966.4
Retirement benefit obligations (71.2) (73.4) (87.3) (102.0) (56.7)
Net assets including retirement benefit obligations 1,019.1 1,054.4 1,044.2 1,112.3 909.7
Financed by
Ordinary share capital 28.9 28.9 28.9 30.4 30.4
Reserves 989.7 1,024.9 1,014.5 1,081.0 878.4
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 1,018.6 1,053.8 1,043.4 1,111.4 908.8
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.9
Total equity 1,019.1 1,054.4 1,044.2 1,112.3 909.7
Net debt (232.5) (359.9) (453.4) (1,222.7) (1,206.8)
Operating cash flow 337.1 339.3 268.5 207.9 234.6
Operating cash conversion 95% 104% 85% 73% 71%
pence
Dividend paid per ordinary share 6.17 8.60 9.04 9.94 10.80
Earnings per ordinary share – underlying 22.05 22.48 21.60 18.48 19.48
Earnings per ordinary share – basic 16.80 15.98 10.70 2.60 (3.35)
Earnings per ordinary share – diluted 16.76 15.93 10.65 2.58 (3.35)
Net assets per ordinary share 88.3 91.3 90.4 91.6 74.9
£m
Market capitalisation as at 31 December 2,117 2,549 3,169 3,934 3,440
  129
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
OTHER INFORMATION
Shareholder Information
Analysis of shareholders
Analysis of ordinary shareholders on the register at 31 December 2015:
Size of holding
Number of  
registered 
holders
Percentage of  
registered 
holders
Number of  
ordinary shares 
held
Percentage of  
ordinary shares
Up to 1,000 1,523 29.62 756,683 0.07
1,001–10,000 2,526 49.13 9,187,661 0.75
10,001–50,000 627 12.19 13,222,652 1.09
50,001–250,000 217 4.22 24,070,694 1.98
250,001–1,000,000 129 2.51 70,923,092 5.84
1,000,001 and above 120 2.33 1,096,366,843 90.27
Total 5,142 100.00 1,214,527,625 100.00
Includes Treasury shareholding of 75,951,724 shares.
At 31 December 2014, there were 5,242 ordinary shareholders on the register.
Source: Equiniti Group plc
Registrars 
Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should, in the first instance, 
be addressed to the Company’s registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA (telephone: 0371 384 2163* 
or +44 (0)121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK). Shareholders should 
promptly notify the registrars of any change of address or other particulars. 
The registrars provide a range of shareholders’ services online. The portfolio service 
provides access to information on investments including balance movements, 
indicative share prices and information on recent dividends and also enables 
address and mandate details to be amended online. For further information 
and practical help on transferring shares or updating your details, please visit 
www.shareview.co.uk. The share dealing service enables shares to be sold 
by UK shareholders by telephone, post or over the internet. For telephone sales 
please call 0345 603 7037 between 8:00am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday.  
For postal sales, please send your completed documentation to the address 
above. For internet sales, please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
The registrars also offer an ISA for Cobham shareholders. Further information 
may be obtained by visiting www.shareview.co.uk, or telephone 0371 384 
2244 (or +44 (0)121 415 7171 if calling from outside the UK).
You should bear in mind that investments, both their value and the income 
they provide, can go down as well as up and you might not get back what you 
originally invested.
Capital gains tax
For the information of shareholders who held Cobham plc ordinary shares on 
31 March 1982, the market value, adjusted for capitalisation and rights issues, 
of the Company’s ordinary shares on that date for capital gains tax purposes, 
unadjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005, was 86.02 pence.
ShareGift
Do you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell? You may 
want to consider donating it to ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686), 
a charity that specialises in the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to 
good causes. You can find out more by visiting www.sharegift.org or calling 
+44 (0)207 930 3737.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares, or offers of free reports about the Company. Details of any share dealing 
facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on 
our website. If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct 
name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately 
authorised by the FCA by visiting www.fca.org.uk. You can also call the FCA 
Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 (or +44 (0)20 7066 1000 if calling from 
outside the UK).
Financial calendar
AGM    28 April 2016
Final dividend – x-div date  28 April 2016
Final dividend – record date  29 April 2016
Final dividend    27 May 2016
Interim results   4 August 2016
Interim dividend – x-div date  6 October 2016
Interim dividend – record date  7 October 2016
Interim dividend   4 November 2016
Registered Office
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ
T el: +44 (0)1202 882020
Fax: +44 (0)1202 840523
Internet: www.cobham.com
Registered Number in England: 30470
*  Lines are open Monday to Friday 8:30am to 5:30pm; excluding Public  
 Holidays in England and Wales. 131 130
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Glossary
Term Full name Description
737NG Boeing 737 Next Generation Part of the Boeing 737 family of twin engine narrow-body commercial 
airliners. Boeing 737 Next Generation models include the -600, -700, 
-800 and -900ER.
A400M Airbus A400M A versatile large military aircraft that performs three differing duties: 
short-medium range flights; long range flights; and the ability to provide 
aerial refuelling capabilities.
AMSA Australian Maritime Safety Authority A statutory authority whose principal functions are promoting 
maritime safety and protection of the marine environment; preventing 
and combating ship-sourced pollution in the marine environment; 
providing infrastructure to support safety of navigation in Australian 
waters; providing a national search and rescue service to the maritime 
and aviation sectors. 
Aviator 200S Aviator 200S The AVIATOR S series provides SATCOM solutions for airline fleets for 
the purpose of air traffic control and aircraft operation control. The 
AVIATOR S enables secure data communication, Internet Protocol (IP)
connectivity and multiple voice capabilities. 
B/MQ-9 Reaper
®
General Atomics B/MQ-9 Reaper
®
A medium-to-high altitude, long endurance remotely piloted aircraft 
system. The primary mission is to act as an intelligence, surveillance 
and reconnaissance asset. 
B717 Boeing 71 7 A narrow-body passenger aircraft designed for short-haul, 
high frequency commercial use.
B787 Boeing 787 Dreamliner A family of long-range wide-body twin engine passenger aircraft.
C-130 Lockheed Martin C- 1 30 A tactical airlifter. C- 1 30 variants are also used for special operations, 
aerial refuelling, close air support, search and rescue and personnel 
recovery. 
CI Continuous improvement Continuous improvement is the ongoing improvement of products, 
services or processes through incremental and breakthrough activities.
 
CL-604 Bombardier Challenger CL -604 aircraft A business jet being modified by Cobham. 
COMAC C919 COMAC C919 A narrow-body passenger aircraft currently being developed 
by the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China (COMAC). 
COSO ERM Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission, Enterprise 
Risk Management
An integrated framework which helps businesses assess and enhance 
their internal control systems. The framework is used to control activities 
and to better achieve established objectives.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning An IT system which integrates all business processes, including 
manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and 
marketing, purchasing, distribution, and inventory into one central 
cohesive repository. It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with 
real time access to data across many business functions. 131 130
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
 OTHER INFORMATION
Term Full name Description
F-# US Air Force designated fighter aircraft Designation for aircraft used for air-to-air combat or for multiple roles, 
including ground support missions.
FSTA Future Strategic T anker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project which has replaced the 
UK’s air-to-air refuelling fleets, and elements of the air transport work 
previously undertaken by the RAF VC10 and TriStar fleets. FSTA uses 
the A330 MRTT aircraft.
FYDP Future Years Defense Program A US Department of Defense centralised report providing data on 
current and planned resource allocations, providing visibility over 
projected defence spending. 
GX Inmarsat Global Xpress A global satellite service which is the world’s first to offer mobile 
broadband coverage. Global Xpress provides increased data speeds 
and bandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and 
aeronautical sectors.
idDAS Intelligent Digital Distributed 
Antenna Systems
An in-building wireless coverage solution allowing mobile operators to 
dynamically allocate capacity around a facility to locations only where 
and when it is needed. 
Ka-band Ka-band Used in satellite communications, Ka-band offers higher bandwidth 
than alternative frequencies allowing greater data transfer rates. 
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the 
US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC- 1 35 Stratotankers. 
Mitsubishi Regional Jet Mitsubishi Regional Jet A next generation regional jet that is currently in development.
NASA The National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration
A US government agency responsible for a civilian space programme 
as well as aeronautics and aerospace research.
Predator
®
General Atomics Predator
®
A long-endurance, medium-altitude unmanned aircraft system for 
surveillance and reconnaissance missions. 
SAILOR 100 GX SAILOR 100 Global Xpress An advanced 3-axis stabilized Ka-band antenna system designed for 
the Inmarsat GX satellite network.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables fixed and mobile communications such as telephone calls, 
television or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer 
data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare 
Improvement Program
An evolutionary series of enhancements to the US Navy’s AN/SLQ-32 
electronic warfare system for surface ships.
TeraVM TeraVM A fully virtualised IP test and measurement solution that can emulate 
and measure millions of unique application flows as a means to test 
wireless networks. PB 132
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Definitions
Further financial definitions
The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts:
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included 
within its published statements non-GAAP measures including trading profit 
and underlying earnings results. Trading profit has been defined as operating 
profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of business acquisition 
and divestment related activity and business restructuring costs as detailed 
below. Also excluded are changes in the marking to market of non-hedge 
accounted derivative financial instruments, gains and losses arising on dividend 
related foreign exchange contracts, impairments of intangible assets and items 
deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature. 
All underlying measures include the operational results of all businesses including 
those held for sale until the point of sale.
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from trading profit 
and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised 
on acquisition, gains or losses arising on business divestments, adjustments to 
businesses held for sale, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element 
of inventory written up on acquisition and other direct costs associated with 
business combinations and terminated divestments. 
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio 
which are incremental to normal operations. In 2015, these relate primarily to 
the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014. 
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance costs, 
which exclude acquisition related items, and after deducting associated taxation 
and non-controlling interests.
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less cash flows 
related to the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible 
assets but excluding payments relating to M&A activities. Operating cash 
flow is free cash flow before payment of tax, interest and restructuring costs. 
Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage 
of trading profit.
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents at the 
balance sheet date. 
When providing sectoral analysis by geography, US revenue includes revenue to 
US based customers on programmes which could be designated as export and is 
therefore non-US defence/security from a market analysis perspective. 
KPI definitions
Group organic revenue growth
Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding 
the incremental effect of acquisitions and divestments.
Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates
The year-on-year increase in underlying profit after taxation, stated at 
constant translation exchange rates, divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares.
Operating cash conversion
Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage 
of trading profit.
Return on invested capital
Trading profit as a percentage of the average invested capital during the year.
Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, retirement 
benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current and deferred tax, 
provisions and other financial assets. Intangible assets recognised on business 
combinations are grossed up to their original cost before amortisation and an 
adjustment is also made to reinstate the historic goodwill previously written 
off directly to reserves.
PV investment
Private Venture (PV) or company funded Research and Development (R&D) 
measures exclude Aviation Services, where there is no R&D activity.
Staff safety – major accident incident rate
The number of incidents resulting in more than three days absence per 
100,000 employees.
Voluntary staff turnover
The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number of employees in 
the year, excluding employees who became redundant, were dismissed or retired. Find more online
Our website provides further information including 
shareholder services and governance, details of our 
products and services, corporate responsibility and 
sustainability, and more at:
www.cobham.com
Investor information and share price performance
www.cobhaminvestors.com 
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
www.cobhamsustainability.com
Products and service offerings
www.cobham.com
Designed and produced by: 
Addison Group 
www.addison-group.net
Printed by:  
Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its 
Environmental Management System is certified  
to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% 
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, 
on average, 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Amadeus coated  
50 silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre (25%  
post consumer and 25% pre consumer) and 50% 
virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, 
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product 
is bleached using an elemental chlorine free  
(ECF) process.
When you have finished with this report, please pass 
it on to other interested parties or remove  
the cover and dispose of it in your recycled  
paper waste. www.cobham.com Cobham plc
The most important thing we build is trust
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK
T: +44 (0)1202 882020
F: +44 (0)1202 840523
