 ANNUAL REPORT
 ENABLI N G  
 USERS IN A  
 DIG IT AL WORLD
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
 01 Highlights 2015
 02 What we do
 03 Letter from the Chairman
 04  Chief Executive’s review
 06 Our markets
 07 Our strategy
 12 Our business model
 14 Resources and relationships
 16 Risk management
 20 Our key performance indicators
 22 Case study Cloud
 24 Case study NGSD
 26 Case study Mobile
 28 Information Security
 30 Performance review
 39  Group Finance Director’s review
 48 Corporate Sustainable Responsibility
GOVERNANCE
 54 Board of Directors
 56 Corporate Governance report
 62 Directors’ report
 66 Audit Committee report
 70 Nomination Committee report
 71 Directors’ Remuneration report
 85 Directors’ responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 86  Independent Auditor’s report to the  
members of Computacenter plc ‘only’
 90 Consolidated income statement
 91  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
 92 Consolidated balance sheet
 93  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
 94 Consolidated cash flow statement
 95  Notes to the consolidated  
Financial Statements
132 Company balance sheet
133 Company statement of changes in equity
134  Notes to the Company Financial Statements
 139 Group five-year financial review
 139 Group summary balance sheet
 1 3 9 F i n an c ia l c a l e n d ar
 1 4 0 C or p or a t e i n f or m a t i on
 1 4 1 P r i n c i p a l o f f i c e s
1   Adjusted revenue, adjusted Services revenue, adjusted Professional Services revenue, adjusted Supply Chain revenue, and adjusted administrative expenses excludes the revenue and 
administrative expenses from a disposed subsidiary, R.D. Trading Ltd (RDC), for both the current year and the comparative reporting year. RDC was sold on 2 February 2015. Adjusted operating 
profit or loss, adjusted profit or loss before tax, adjusted profit or loss for the year, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share are, as appropriate, each stated before: 
exceptional and other adjusting items including gain or loss on business disposals, amortisation of acquired intangibles, utilisation of deferred tax assets (where initial recognition was 
as an exceptional item or a fair value adjustment on acquisition), and the related tax effect of these exceptional and other adjusting items, as Management do not consider these items 
when reviewing the underlying performance of the segment or the Group as a whole. Each of these measures also excludes the results of RDC for both the current and comparative periods. 
Additionally, adjusted operating profit or loss includes the interest paid on customer-specific financing (CSF) which Management considers to be a cost of sale. A reconciliation between 
key adjusted and statutory measures is provided on page 40 of the Group Finance Director’s review. Further detail is provided within note 3 to the Financial Statements. 
2  We evaluate the long-term performance and trends within our strategic key performance indicators (KPIs) on a constant currency basis. Further, the performance of the Group and its 
overseas segments are shown, where indicated, in constant currency. The constant currency presentation, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign 
currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we 
evaluate our performance. We calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-year local currency financial results using the current year average exchange rates and 
comparing these recalculated amounts to our current year results or by presenting the results in the equivalent local currency amounts. Excluding our KPIs, where the performance of the 
Group, or its overseas segments, are presented in constant currency, the equivalent prior-year measure is also presented in actual currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the time.
3   The comparative dividend (pence per share) figure provided for 2014 has not been adjusted for the share capital consolidation that took place on 20 February 2015. The figures, 
as adjusted for the share capital consolidation, are provided within the section entitled ‘dividend’ on page 31 of this Annual Report and Accounts. 
4   Net funds includes cash and cash equivalents, CSF, other short or other long-term borrowings and current asset investments. A breakdown is provided within note 29 to the Financial Statements.
CONTENT OVERVIEW Adjusted revenue
1
 (£m)
3,054.2
-0.3%
Statutory revenue (£m)
3,057.6
-1.6%
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 (£m)
86.9
+7.2%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 
(pence)
53.4
+21.1%
Statutory profit before tax (£m)
126.8
+66.0%
Statutory diluted earnings per share
 
(pence)
82.1
+105.3%
Dividend per share
3
 (pence)
21.4
+12.6%
OUR AMBITION IS TO BE 
EUROPE’S PREFERRED  
IT PROVIDER TO ENABLE  
USERS AND THEIR BUSINESS 
IN A DIGITAL WORLD.
01
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
HIGHLIGHTS 2015 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
262.8
259.7
242.1
220.3
216.9
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
262.6
256.3
239.8
217.9
213.8
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2,067.1
2,122.3
2,106.2
2,005.6
2,015.6
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2,063.9
2,081.2
2,066.6
1,971.7
1,977.6
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
727.7
725.8
723.8
688.4
619.8
OUR BUSINESS
Three complementary entry points for our customers and a balanced portfolio for Computacenter to achieve 
long-term growth.
CONSULT & CHANGE
Delivering a set of predictable, proven 
solutions that optimise customers’ 
technology, enabling effective change  
and achievement of business goals.
Revenue characteristics
Dependent on forward order book.
Revenue characteristics
Large contracts, low margins and  
low visibility.
Revenue characteristics
High visibility, long term and stable.
SOURCE & DEPLOY
Determining and providing appropriate 
products and commercials to address 
customers’ technology requirements, 
providing a complete service and  
support throughout the lifecycle.
MANAGE & TRANSFORM
Providing maintenance, support, 
transformation and management 
of customers’ IT infrastructures and 
operations improving quality and flexibility 
of service, while significantly reducing costs.
Professional Services revenue (£m)
262.8
+1.2%
Adjusted Professional Services 
revenue
1
 (£m)
262.6
+2.5%
Managed Services revenue (£m)
727.7
+0.3%
Supply Chain revenue (£m)
2,067.1
-2.6%
Adjusted Supply Chain revenue
1
 
(£m)
2,063.9
-0.8%
02
WHAT WE DO A YEAR OF 
PROGRESS
As you, our shareholders, partners and 
employees know, we manage our business 
and its relationships for the long term.
As you, our shareholders, partners and employees know, we manage 
our business and its relationships for the long term. In 2015, we 
made good progress in managing our cash, and with the sale early 
in the year of our recycling subsidiary RDC, and substantial cash 
generation in 2014, we were able to return £121.4 million by way 
of special and ordinary dividends. We will continue our focus on 
working capital usage and cash generation for the long haul.
Operationally, we have completed the implementation of the Group 
Operating Model, which enables us to deliver consistent service to our 
customers across the countries in which we operate, whilst retaining 
an in-country go to market approach in our geographies. This has 
taken more than four years of sustained effort, from the installation 
of our single ERP system to the required change in management 
reporting lines, and it has required constant focus on long-term 
goals while striving to deliver annual revenue and profit growth.
Our results in 2015 were pleasing as, despite a substantial decline in 
the Euro, we made our profit objective for the year, and on a constant 
currency
2
 basis grew our adjusted revenue
1
 by 5.5 per cent. In the UK, 
we implemented substantial new Managed Services contracts for a 
number of customers, in Germany we won a significant number of 
new contracts, and in France we made good progress in getting the 
operation properly focused and resourced. 
We continued diversification of our customer support capability 
with Barcelona, Cape Town, Budapest, Bangalore and Kuala Lumpur 
remaining key components of our long-term plans. In the future, we 
are planning to begin direct, rather than partner-based, operations 
in the USA, and the setting up of a support centre in Mexico. We serve 
customers in more than 100 countries, but we sell to enterprises 
whose home is in one of five countries being the UK, Germany, France, 
Belgium and Switzerland. In accordance with the Group’s strategy, we 
continue to invest in our Services capabilities with which we support 
and enable the end users of our customers.
I have chosen to underscore in this short letter our commitment to 
the long term, but we are pleased with the results for 2015, achieved 
despite challenges in the market and of our own making, and we are 
confident of continued progress in 2016. I thank our shareholders 
for their faith in us, our partners for their support, and our employees 
for their efforts and, of course, results. 
Greg Lock
Chairman
1 1 March 2016
03
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN A LONG- TERM VIEW
Computacenter has delivered a further year of 
progress in 2015, increasing its adjusted
 
diluted 
earnings per share
1
 by 21.1 per cent to 53.4 pence. This 
level of performance has been achieved despite an 
increased level of in-year strategic investment by the 
Group to maintain and grow its competitive advantage, 
substantial currency headwinds due to the strength of 
the Pound Sterling against the Euro, and challenging 
wider economic conditions. 
As a public company listed on the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange, we strive at all times to deliver value for our stakeholders 
across a range of time-horizons. However, as a Senior Management 
team, we continue to consider the long term in all aspects of our 
decision-making and, as part of this approach, spend significant 
time reviewing the progress made by the business, both financially 
and otherwise, over a rolling three-year period. 
 
We have been pleased by the financial progress made by the Group 
over the past three years. Since the end of 2012, our adjusted profit 
before tax
1
 and adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 have increased 
by 5 per cent and 1 1 per cent respectively on an annually compounded 
basis. The Group’s ability to generate cash remains consistently 
strong. This, together with the disposal of RDC, has allowed us to 
return approximately £171 million to shareholders in the last three 
years, in addition to our standard dividend of £70.9 million declared 
in respect of that period. The financial performance has been 
particularly pleasing when one considers the increased investment 
made through the P&L in the Group’s Services capability, in order 
to provide a foundation for continued organic growth and a more 
sustainable business.
It has also been three years since the Board undertook a 
comprehensive review of the Group’s strategy, and as is set out 
on page 21, consistent progress has been made against its revised 
strategic objectives. In keeping with our approach of building for the 
long term, we will increase investment further in 2016, focusing on the 
development of our Next Generation Service Desk (NGSD) capability, 
and our Mobility, Cloud and Security offerings. We will also increase 
the level of our investment in our internal systems to improve the 
productivity of our Services resource, in particular through the use of 
Field Force technology. As we continue to deliver and further refine our 
strategy, the Group will look for ways in which it can grow its Services 
business, whilst balancing this with the importance of maintaining 
capital discipline and balance sheet efficiency.
 
In 2012, Computacenter took the decision to implement its Group-wide 
operating model, and this process has been completed across all of its 
main operating subsidiaries. In both Germany and France, the use of 
industrialised best-practice processes, together with the involvement 
of Group Management, has also played a role in the improving in-
country financial performance in 2015. The implementation of the 
model has been about an aspiration to raise the Group’s standards 
and quality of service, and I have been particularly pleased with the 
progress made in this area.
04
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Computacenter is well-placed for another year of progress in 2016.  
We will continue to invest appropriately in our systems, technology, 
people and processes to support the long-term prospects of the 
Group. These prospects are enhanced by the talent and dedication of 
people right across Computacenter, which I have witnessed at close 
proximity over a long period of time.
 
I would like to take the opportunity to thank our shareholders, who 
continue to provide us with consistent support and valuable feedback. 
I hope to see you at our Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016. 
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
1 1 March 2016
As a Senior Management team, we 
continue to consider the long term in all 
aspects of our decision-making and, as 
part of this approach, spend significant 
time reviewing the progress made by the 
business, both financially and otherwise, 
over a rolling three-year period.
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
05 SHIFT TO  
DIGITAL
GENERAL MARKET CONDITIONS ARE FAVOURABLE
For our three core territories, the UK, Germany and France, we 
expect to see revenue growth of more than two per cent per year 
over the next three years across hardware and software product and 
Professional and Managed IT services. Within this market, the pricing 
pressure seen last year for the supply of hardware, particularly PCs, 
printers, servers and storage, is predicted to continue.
However, this is expected to be more than compensated for by 
growth in enterprise networking equipment and software in the 
areas of infrastructure virtualisation, IT operations, enterprise 
content management and web conferencing and collaboration.
The outlook for the IT services segment remains positive. IT outsourcing 
services are expected to return to modest growth driven by mobile, 
cloud, networking and security requirements. Professional services 
are benefiting from the shift from hardware to software as customers 
look for consulting and integration services to transform their 
IT infrastructures.
THE SPEED OF CHANGE IS INCREASING 
The speed of digital innovation in social media, mobility, analytics and 
cloud has increased dramatically in the last few years. Digitisation 
is already making profound and long-lasting changes to how the 
IT industry operates, and how IT enables businesses and their users. 
There are a number of drivers for this:
• Industrialisation: IT operations and services are becoming 
increasingly standardised and automated, driving cost savings 
and efficiencies. The growing use of virtualisation and cloud-based 
services are also enabling greater agility. 
• Consumerisation: Employees expect enterprise IT devices and 
services to match the user experience they enjoy in their personal 
lives. This trend will be reinforced as younger generations (‘digital 
natives’) enter the work environment.
• Internet of Things: From cars and fridges to drones and scanners, 
more and more devices are becoming connected as the distinction 
between the physical and the digital disappears. Both consumer 
and commercial worlds will be impacted as the ‘Internet of Things’ 
continues to grow. 
• Digital transformation: E-commerce and digital social marketing 
has not only transformed how companies engage with customers, 
but also how customers buy products and services. Businesses, 
their users and their customers are now connected through 
multiple channels – from mobile applications and social networks 
to helpdesks and websites. This is reshaping a wide range of 
sectors, including leisure, travel, retail and financial services, 
and is accelerating the adoption of digital technologies.
TRENDS IN OUR TARGET MARKET
Market evidence shows that the era of IT outsourcing mega-deals 
is coming to an end. Instead, organisations are favouring smaller, 
more targeted contracts, which presents a significant opportunity 
for Computacenter. There are two factors that are contributing 
toward this shift:
• Disaggregation: Customers are separating their IT contracts 
and tenders into specific service verticals, or towers, such as end 
user support, workplace support, datacenters and networking. 
Larger organisations often split their IT outsourcing into even 
more specific service lines, for example managed security, 
managed voice or managed LAN. This multi-sourcing model 
allows companies to select the best provider for each service 
tower and create a strong ecosystem of IT partners. 
• End-to-end solutions: Our customers increasingly want end-to-
end solutions instead of point solutions. To meet this need, service 
providers must have the capabilities and resources to cover the 
full IT spectrum – from providing software and devices through 
to networking and security into the datacenter. This demand for 
a joined-up approach also extends to IT services, with customers 
preferring to work with partners that can support them throughout 
the transformation lifecycle – from advising, sourcing and 
designing to deploying, integrating and managing. 
 
Both of these trends play to the strengths of Computacenter. As a 
result of the increase in smaller outsourcing contracts, we expect 
that there will be more opportunities within Computacenter’s target 
market. The end-to-end focus of our customer base matches the 
breadth and depth of our services and solutions portfolio. 
06
OUR MARKETS DIGITAL 
PLATFORMS
OUR AMBITION: ENABLING USERS AND THEIR BUSINESS 
IN A DIGITAL WORLD
In 2014, Computacenter set out an ambition to be Europe´s preferred 
IT provider to enable users and their business. The feedback we have 
received from our existing and potential customers has been very 
positive. This has included an appreciation for our strong focus on the 
end-user, which sets us apart from many other competitors with a 
much wider scope. With the consumerisation of IT going mainstream 
and the ‘shift to digital’ becoming a reality, we have updated our 
ambition statement to be ‘Europe’s preferred IT provider to enable 
users and their business in a digital world’.
OUR STRATEGIC POSITIONING 
Computacenter aims to be the multi-vendor Managed Services 
provider of choice for the IT infrastructures of our customers. We 
are able to make this multi-vendor distinction thanks to our strong 
relationships with major IT vendors. This enables us to provide our 
customers with independent and trusted advice about different 
and emerging technologies.
Our focus on Managed Services is critical to retaining and 
maximising our customer relationships over the long term. 
Previously, Computacenter worked towards this objective primarily 
through physical processes and facilities. For example, customers 
would speak to our dedicated, 24x7 Global Service Desk when they 
needed an IT issue resolved. Going forward, these and other service 
delivery scenarios will evolve with processes being digitised and 
fulfilled through digital assets.
In response to the ‘shift to digital’, we intend to become the preferred 
Managed Services provider of hybrid, digital platform solutions. Our 
customers need digital platforms to help them cope with the growing 
complexity and fluidity of digital services, as well as to improve 
ongoing governance and management. Hybrid services and solutions 
blend digital and physical delivery channels and capabilities to enable 
businesses to grow faster and users to work smarter.
FOUR HYBRID – DIGITAL PLATFORMS IDENTIFIED
From disrupted to productive with our Next Generation Service Desk
(NGSD). With its self-service portal, web chat feature, intuitive user 
interface and constantly expanding knowledge database, NGSD is a 
great example of a hybrid – digital platform. We will continue to enrich 
our NGSD offering by extending its functionality and improving the 
user experience. NGSD is the latest example of solution innovation 
at Computacenter, and illustrates our ambition to enable users in 
a digital world.
Our Mobile Management solution drives enterprise mobility.  
The Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) solution provides an 
integrated and highly secure desktop and mobile work environment 
that can be tailored to different workstyles and device ownership 
models. Advising, building and managing EMM and AppStore 
technologies from market-leading vendors represents a significant 
step on our journey to a digital workplace.
Increasing IT agility with our Hybrid and End-user Cloud Services.  
Our hybrid cloud offering ranges from audits and blueprints, to 
planning, building and operating hybrid cloud infrastructures and 
management platforms efficiently and cost-effectively. We are also 
helping our customers to deploy and manage cloud-based services 
(for example Office 365) in the workplace. With our heritage in IT 
transformation and our experience in cloud enablement, we are 
a trusted advisor and key partner in these times of change.
Enabling users means securing users with our Managed Security 
Services (MSS). By drawing on our existing consulting expertise and 
building a centralised security capability, we aim to defend ourselves 
and our customers against cyber threats. We want to protect and 
grow our Managed Services business by embedding MSS in current 
and future customer agreements. 
Computacenter aims to be the multi-
vendor Managed Services provider of 
choice to run the IT infrastructures  
of our customers.
Michael Weiss
Head of Group Strategy  
& Marketing
07
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
OUR STRATEGY WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015
We have seen strong growth in our Services contract base in 
Germany, with a number of key wins within our target market, 
including DekaBank, Airbus and Daimler. Greater focus on qualification 
and sales execution has helped improve our win rates. Extended 
contracts with existing clients, the growth of new customers, such 
as Transport for London, and the renewal of our largest customer have 
helped limit a contract base decline in the UK, caused primarily by the 
loss of a large contract. We have successfully transitioned a number 
of the wins from 2014, with these customers going on to reference our 
capabilities early in their contract, which is of significant value as we 
address upcoming opportunities.
Across our business, our ‘enabling users’ approach has helped drive 
new growth and deals, including Union Chimique Belge (UCB). Our 
key growth plays, such as Next Generation Service Desk (NGSD) and 
Enterprise Mobility, are resonating well with the market, supporting 
the sales of new Services contracts and the creation of a more 
robust pipeline. We have a significant Group pipeline of opportunities, 
which should assist our contract base in 2016. We are leveraging 
our UK-based mature cost tools across the Group, which will help 
ensure we are designing services that are competitive, deliverable 
and profitable.
Neil Hall
Director of Business Enablement  
& Contractual Services
1.  To lead with and grow our Services business
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016
In 2016, we expect to see growth in our forward order book for 
Services in our key markets, with an increased focus on challenging 
geographies, such as France. We will continue to strengthen our 
pipeline for 2017 and 2018, ensuring we have clear visibility of 
customer requirements ahead of any competitive process. We will put 
greater focus on internationally based customers requiring end user 
services. We will further develop our propositions and capabilities, 
ensuring we continue to innovate within our target market in areas 
such as infrastructure/desktop-as-a-service, cloud, security and 
digital workplace. We have a key opportunity in France to renew 
and extend a contract with one of our major clients, which would 
help to drive in-country Services revenue growth. We will ensure 
existing customers continue to renew and extend their contracts 
by leveraging our high-quality Service Management and Client Teams 
across the Group.
We will continue to focus on the right 
deals within our target market. By 
bringing together the best of our Group 
capabilities and credentials, we will 
make selecting Computacenter an 
easy decision for our customers.
Services contract base
2
 (£m)
656
+1.4%
08
OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015
As a result of new business wins with Royal Mail Group, Network Rail, 
Transport for London, DekaBank and Volkswagen MAN Service Desk, we 
grew our overall Services headcount by more than 530 people during 
the year. The fact that we were able to take on and absorb all of these 
fiercely competed contracts without diluting the overall revenue per 
head indicator is a testament to our ongoing focus on and driving of 
in-life services productivity.
In 2015, we continued to run our biannual review process where we 
internally evaluate our core businesses of Managed Services and 
Professional Services. These reviews involve a deep analysis of the 
underlying foundations required to deliver a high quality of service, 
while at the same time remaining productive and competitive in the 
market. Using trusted external benchmark data, we were able to 
assess and adjust primary job roles within consultancy, engineering 
and project management to maximise our competitiveness and the 
utilisation of ‘hot skills’.
During the year, our Group Industrialisation team embarked on a 
programme of Group-wide standardisation projects – all of which 
will help us streamline our activities and processes to leverage better 
our experience, best practices and standards. The team has worked 
closely with specialists from our Group Information Systems function 
to identify the building blocks we need to put in place to enable 
the innovative automation of everyday engineering and support 
processes associated with common customer requests, such as 
installations, moves, changes and device swaps. 
Chris Webb
Group Chief 
Operating Officer
2.  To improve our Services productivity and enhance  
our competitiveness 
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016
While we develop our automation tool (to be called Field Force 
Enablement), we will analyse the engineering work we perform 
across all of our Managed Services contracts. As part of this process, 
we will identify the volume and variety of tasks undertaken and the 
time involved. We will then use our bespoke Management Operating 
System to establish greater controls and drive productivity gains. 
By leveraging our investment in SAP’s scheduling tool (MRS), we will be 
able to take a more optimised and centralised approach, which will 
not only help unlock greater efficiencies, but also align our business 
processes ahead of automation.
We will continue to expand – both in terms of our geographic coverage 
and our services portfolio – placing particular focus on customer 
requirements related to cloud, security, mobile and analytics. This 
approach will ensure that we can continue to compete successfully 
for the largest and most challenging customer opportunities.
Our focus on, and experience of, enabling 
users means we are ideally positioned to 
help our customers succeed.
Adjusted Services revenue
1
 generated 
per Services head
2
 (£’000)
84
+2.4%
09
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015
One of our key performance indicators remains the number of 
customers who make a contribution to the Group of over £1 million 
per year of gross profit, measured now on a constant currency
2
 basis.
Computacenter is focused on its profitability by customers over the 
long term, across the range of services and products that we supply.
Typically, we make progress against this key performance indicator 
by winning new customers, and leading with a Managed Services 
approach, which often requires a long sales cycle and significant pre-
sales investment. Once a Managed Services bid has been successful, 
there are often a number of almost immediate opportunities to build 
up the size and value of the customer relationship.
Nowhere has this been more evident across the Group than in the 
UK business in the second half of 2014 and in the first half of 2015, 
which has benefited from in-year Supply Chain ‘pull-through’ from 
its significant Managed Services wins seen in 2014. It has also 
resulted in Professional Services projects work, as customers 
looked to modernise their end-user environments as part of the 
on-boarding process.
Building trust with our customers during this initial phase, and 
then maintaining it through the provision of high levels of service, 
generating customer satisfaction, and taking a long-term approach 
are all key components of achieving consistent progress in this area.
Maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction retains customers 
for the long term which enables you to gradually grow your 
customer base. 
Mike Norris
Chief Executive 
Officer
3.  To retain and maximise the relationship with our customers 
over the long term
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016
In 2016 we intend to maintain our success over the last few years 
of securing new named customers. While 2015 was a little quieter in 
the UK following some very active years, momentum has improved 
materially in Germany. Looking forward, the pipeline in both countries 
is promising for 2016 and we expect some contribution from our other 
geographies. Additionally, we anticipate that a gradually improving 
economic environment, together with an increase in the range of 
our offerings, will enable us to increase the number of our customers 
making a contribution of over £1 million per year of gross profit 
to the Group. 
Maintaining high levels of customer 
satisfaction retains customers for the 
long term which enables you to gradually 
grow your customer base. 
Number of customer accounts with  
contribution over £1 million
2
83
+1.2%
10
OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015
Having developed and internally deployed our NGSD and Enterprise 
Mobility solution in 2014, our priority for 2015 was to successfully 
launch both offerings to our customers. With our industry award ‘Best 
Managed Service Desk 2015’ and the implementation at Visa Europe 
(see case study), we have achieved exactly this. Through NGSD, which 
was rolled out in April 2015, Visa Europe has significantly improved 
employee productivity and engagement by driving the rate of digital 
interaction with its users above 40 per cent. With the subsequent 
introduction of our Enterprise Mobility solution, Visa Europe users 
will enjoy secure access to their email, calendar, contacts and a host 
of other company specific apps. Visa Europe will also be our first 
customer to benefit from the full functionality of the NGSD mobile 
app at the end of this year.
In 2015, we also established a Group-wide cloud offering through 
which we advise, build and deploy our customers´ hybrid cloud 
infrastructures. Building a private cloud for Deloitte (see case study) 
illustrates that customers are looking for transformation partners 
who can offer a comprehensive hybrid cloud model covering all 
architectural, design and implementation aspects.
Finally, we have developed a layered Managed Security Services 
model and capability through which we can address our customers´ 
increasing security requirements, while also winning and retaining 
workplace Managed Services contracts.
4.  To innovate our Services offerings to build future  
growth opportunities
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016
In 2016, we intend to leverage our NGSD and Enterprise Mobility 
solutions to protect our existing Managed Services business, 
while also driving new customer engagements. We are committed 
to further developing both solutions, in addition to our cloud and 
security capabilities.
As part of this development, we enhanced the functionality of NGSD 
by making the mobile app a standard offering. For Enterprise Mobility, 
we will go to market with three different state-of-the-art technical 
platforms to meet customer demand.
With our Hybrid Cloud offering, we will be able to significantly drive 
our Supply Chain and Professional Services businesses; we are also 
extending our capabilities to manage these cloud infrastructures. 
To drive growth and safeguard our business and that of our 
customers, we plan to establish a Group-wide managed security 
operation and cyber defence capability. As part of Managed Security 
Services, we will invest in increased analytics skills.
By building on our strategic developments, we plan to create a vision, 
offering and capability around the Digital Workplace, which addresses 
our customers´ workplace transformation needs.
Our strategic investments have been 
well-timed. Innovation is back on the CIOs 
agenda – and CIOs trust us as the right 
transformation partner.
Adjusted Services revenue
1,2
 (£m)
990
+6.0%
Michael Weiss
Head of Group Strategy  
& Marketing
11
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 EARNINGS PER SHARE
HELP THE CIO TO ENABLE USERS AND THEIR BUSINESS
OPERATING 
PROFIT
CASH FLOW
EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT
CUSTOMER 
SATISFACTION
Our business results
SERVICES
GROWTH
SERVICES
PRODUCTIVITY
CUSTOMER
RELATIONSHIP
SERVICES
INNOVATION
Services 
contract base
Services revenue generated 
per Services head
Number of customer
accounts with contribution
over £1 million
Services revenue
Our strategic objectives
GENERATE ACHIEVE
INVEST
INNOVATE
How we innovate
NGSD MOBILITY SECURITY CLOUD
Our business model
SOURCE &
DEPLOY
CONSULT &
CHANGE
MANAGE &
TRANSFORM
EDGE IT
CORE IT
Solutions model
Services model
Engagement model
SERVICE 
MANAGEMENT
DIGITAL  
TRANSFORMATION PARTNER
Our business model explained
12
OUR BUSINESS MODEL Through our Solutions Model, we design and sell end-to-end IT 
solutions for end-user computing (Edge-IT) and back-end IT 
infrastructures (Core-IT). With our Services Model, we cover the 
complete lifecycle of these solutions from advisory and systems 
integration (Consult & Change), to product resale and distribution 
(Source & Deploy) and then maintenance and operations (Manage & 
Transform). Our Engagement Model ensures that all our services and 
solutions are managed consistently and continuously improved and 
aligned to the needs and requirements of our customers.
HOW IT SUPPORTS OUR STRATEGY
Solutions Model – Building and managing hybrid digital platforms
Opportunity: From all the opportunities that the ‘shift to digital’ 
brings to our industry, we have identified the NGSD, Enterprise Mobility, 
Hybrid and End-user Cloud, and Managed Security Services as the 
four key areas providing growth potential for Computacenter (see 
‘Our strategy’).
Rationale: As the velocity and variety of technology trends continue 
to increase, our customers are looking for a partner who is able to 
identify best-of-breed solutions for their business as well as reduce 
the complexity of managing these solutions on their behalf.
Strategic objective: By providing innovative solutions that address 
the IT and business challenges facing our customers, we will build 
future growth opportunities for Computacenter (see KPI #4). 
With our Solutions Model, we make innovation work.
Services Model – Industrialising our service delivery
Opportunity: Customers expect service providers like Computacenter 
to constantly improve efficiency and drive out cost as part of long-
term engagements.
Rationale: The off-shoring of service delivery to lower cost 
locations can prove detrimental to the quality of service that 
customers receive. Potential financial savings can be severely 
impacted by the increase in transactional or quality assurance 
costs. At Computacenter, we believe in right-shoring. This means 
blending the right mix of on-site, in-country, near-shore and off-
shore resources for each customer engagement. We expect to deliver 
even greater productivity gains by using digital technologies that 
enable automation and self-service.
Strategic objective: To improve our service delivery productivity, 
we have three streams of activity which are being executed in parallel 
(also see KPI #2):
1. Standardising our tools and processes to drive out complexity 
2.   Right-shoring of our Service Desk and infrastructure management 
capabilities
3.  Driving the integration and automation of our business processes
Our Services Model is fundamental to how we support our customers’ 
transformation and evolution as they adapt to the major trends in the 
IT industry.
Engagement Model – Digitising customer engagement
Opportunity: The consumerisation of IT and the increasing 
importance of digital user interfaces and experiences provide 
another opportunity to improve and enrich the interaction with 
our customers and their users.
Rationale: The digitalisation of the user interface (see NGSD in ‘Our 
Strategy’) provides both the prerequisite for improving our service 
productivity through automated processes and the information 
needed to achieve stronger customer intelligence and satisfaction.
Strategic objectives: As our digital user interface solution, NGSD will help 
drive Managed Services growth (see KPI #1 ) by acting as an incentive 
for early renewals, as well as a key differentiator when bidding for new 
business. Our more traditional customer engagement channels (i.e. 
sales and service management) remain key to maximising and retaining 
relationships with our customers in the long term (see KPI #3).
Our Engagement Model helps us to be a truly customer-
centric business.
HOW OUR BUSINESS MODEL DRIVES SHAREHOLDER VALUE 
Each of the building blocks in our business model is focused on 
helping us achieve our strategic objectives. By working towards our 
goals, we are able to improve customer satisfaction and employee 
engagement. This, in turn, will support the generation of operating 
profit and cash flow across our core territories. The realisation of our 
financial and non-financial goals enables us to continue to invest in 
and refine our business model.
13
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 WINNING 
TOGETHER
Barry Hoffman
Group Human 
Resources Director
People, like our services and innovations, are a major source 
of competitive advantage and we continually review our approach 
to attracting and retaining talented individuals. 
During 2014, we looked closely at our people strategy. We embarked 
on an initiative, working with employees from all levels across all of 
our geographies, to understand better what we value in them and how 
we communicate this against the backdrop of our business strategy. 
The outcome is our ‘Winning Together’ values. These articulate our 
long-held beliefs and have been cascaded to everyone across the 
Group. Winning Together is a cornerstone of our people strategy, and 
one which we expect to last for many years to come.
Our Winning Together values are important to our business because 
as a Group we win by:
• putting customers first;
• being straightforward; and
• keeping promises.
And we do this together by:
• understanding people matter;
• considering the long term; and
• inspiring success.
Winning Together is more than just six bullet points. It is a way 
to differentiate our people, enable our business to make better 
decisions and provide superior services to our customers. To 
drive the continuous development of our people, we have invested 
heavily in a new performance management programme along with 
consistent and easy-to-use cloud-based technologies from Success 
Factors and SAP . This will provide our managers and employees 
with the information they need to track their performance and 
development. As a result, this Group initiative will help us on our 
journey to becoming a truly integrated organisation across multiple 
teams and countries. We are passionate about the competitive 
advantage that comes from nurturing our people, and invest in 
growing future leaders for the business. 
During the last year, we have also enhanced our range of people/
skills development programmes across the Group, from short-term 
work experience for the young, through to business mentoring and 
support schemes alongside Apprenticeships, Associate Programmes 
and Graduate or Industrial Placement Programmes. As a measure 
of our commitment in 2015, more than 10 per cent of new starters in 
our German and UK operations have been apprentices, placements 
or associates, and more than two per cent of all employees in these 
countries are on an ‘early in careers’ scheme.
Every young person on one of these pathways brings a fresh and 
innovative approach to how we do business, and we are justly proud 
of the achievements of each of them – but it is always nice to be 
recognised externally. We are honoured to have been awarded ‘Highly 
Commended Apprentice Employer’ at the National Apprentice Awards 
for our passion and commitment to the apprentices in our business.
We don’t just consider the added value that we bring to our customers 
with the products and services we offer; we also continually assess 
the value we bring to our employees, both current and future. Our 
Employer Brand experience has been aligned to our Winning Together 
values and focuses on empowering our people; together we win by 
making sure our people have the autonomy and support they need 
to deliver exceptional solutions for our customers.
Our continuing success is based on hiring, developing and retaining 
high-quality people; more than 34 per cent of our people across the 
Group have worked with Computacenter for over 10 years. We strive 
to make Computacenter an exciting place to work. We are proud of the 
fact that our people are at the heart of everything we do, and that our 
customers value the skills and experience our people bring to work 
with them each day. 
We are proud of the fact that our people 
are at the heart of everything we do. 
14
RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS – PEOPLE EVOLUTION AND 
REVOLUTION IN 
 SUPPL Y CHAI N
Mike Rodwell
Group Chief 
Commercial Officer
We are accustomed to change in the IT industry, but even by the 
standards of this fast-moving environment, the last couple of years 
have been momentous. The split of both HP and Symantec into two 
businesses; the sale of IBM’s System x business to Lenovo; Dell’s 
return to private ownership and its stated intention to acquire EMC, 
another industry giant, are all changing the vendor landscape in 
ways that few people could have imagined. 
While many of the industry stalwarts are entering a period of 
acquisition, consolidation or major structural change, ‘new’ names, 
such as Nutanix, SimpliVity, Pure Storage and Nimble, are further 
challenging the status quo. In the case of Nutanix and SimpliVity, 
their willingness to partner in new infrastructure-based ecosystems 
has resulted in them collaborating with established companies 
including Dell, Lenovo and Cisco; companies that would typically 
favour home-grown solutions but who have adapted their strategies 
to accommodate this new way of working. Pure Storage and Nimble 
are, on the other hand, challenging the traditional storage vendors 
with a ‘Flash-centric’ assault on the market. Many of these emerging 
companies will ultimately be acquired by larger organisations seeking 
to enhance their portfolios while at the same time protecting their 
legacy offerings, as was the case recently with NetApp’s acquisition 
of SolidFire. We await with interest to see how Computacenter’s major 
partners, including the newly created Hewlett Packard Enterprise 
(HPE) and HP Inc., Cisco, Lenovo and potential Dell/EMC combination, 
continue to adapt to these market changes.
Cloud computing has become part of the corporate vocabulary, 
but terms such as ‘software defined’, ‘anything-as-a-service’, ‘hyper 
convergence’ and ‘hyper scale’ are now becoming firmly established, 
as the demand for speed and agility becomes ever more business 
critical. The rapid pace of change in both partner and technology 
landscapes is a business reality which provides a major opportunity 
for Computacenter. Both traditional and emerging partners rely on 
Computacenter to help embed their new products and technologies 
into supply chain and end-to-end solutions. By combining our first 
class logistics with the expertise of our specialists, consultants and 
project managers, we help customers gain maximum benefit from 
new and evolving technologies and trends as quickly and seamlessly 
as possible.
Across Computacenter, I am proud to lead more than 1,000 dedicated 
professionals working within Group Commercial Operations spanning 
Inside Sales, Partner Management and Logistics Operations. As part of 
managing the end-to-end product lifecycle, this team maintains trusted 
commercial relationships with the Original Equipment Manufacturer 
(OEM) and distribution partners that underpin Computacenter’s 
£2 billion annual Supply Chain business. Their knowledge, combined 
with that of their colleagues in our Solutions and Services business 
areas, is disseminated throughout Computacenter and its customer 
base to aid decision-making for today and planning for tomorrow.
The rapid pace of change in both partner 
and technology landscapes is a business 
reality which provides a major opportunity 
for Computacenter.
15
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS – VENDORS RISK 
MANAGEMENT
Chris Webb
Group Chief 
Operating Officer
Computacenter’s approach to risk management is underpinned 
by a deep understanding of its business and the industry that it 
operates in.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and risk management and has established 
a continuous process for the identification, evaluation and 
management of the principal risks faced by the Group. This process 
has been in place for the whole of the financial year and is in full 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial 
Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control 
and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The objectives of the risk management process are to:
• manage risk to a level acceptable to the Board; 
• maximise the chances of achieving our strategic objectives 
by effectively managing the risks that might undermine 
them; and
• ensure the fundamentals of good risk management are 
incorporated into our decision-making process at all levels.
The Board periodically reviews the Group’s risk appetite which 
balances business development opportunities with potentially higher 
risk whilst at all times maintaining long-term customer satisfaction 
and safeguarding our reputation. In practice this means we have 
a healthy risk appetite where we have a good understanding of 
the risks based on our experience and a low risk appetite where 
we have less knowledge, experience and understanding of the 
accompanying exposures. 
The main elements of the risk management process are as follows:
• the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, and its 
adherence, ensures that all significant factors affecting Group 
strategy, structure, financing and contracts are properly 
addressed by the Directors;
• the Board and Executive Committee consider the barriers to 
achieving the strategic objectives set by the Board (the 
principal risks);
• the Group Risk Committee, consisting of the Executive Directors, 
members of the Group Executive Committee and senior 
managers from across the Group, robustly challenges the 
effectiveness of mitigations of the principal risks. Each key risk 
is considered in depth at least once a year by the Risk Committee;
• deliberations of the Group Risk Committee, along with the current 
status of each principal risk, are reported to the Audit Committee 
and to the Board; and
• the Group Risk Committee also reviews the output of the annual 
Business Risk Assessment, a bottom-up risk-identification 
process that each business and functional area completes, 
to decide whether any of these risks are of such magnitude 
as to be considered a principal risk to the Group.
Risk management needs to be embedded adequately in the day-to-
day running of the business if it is to be effective. Examples of how 
we achieve this include the following:
• our bid management process is subject to an overall governance 
methodology to ensure appropriate risks are identified and that 
there is adequate challenge relating to our pricing and our ability 
to provide the technical solutions being put forward;
• following the winning of new contracts, there are further robust 
governance processes to ensure that risks relating to transitions 
and transformations are fully considered and that in-life 
commercial management is adequately addressed; and
• in relation to our international business strategy, there are 
effective and thorough governance processes for on-boarding, 
reviewing and managing partners to ensure a consistent high 
quality of service for our customers with global operations.
2
11
3
4
8
9
6
10
12
7
5
1
13
Likelihood
Impact
Alert status down Alert status up Alert status holding
Group Risk Log 2015 Heat Map
16
RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management framework
THE BOARD
• Sets strategic objectives
• Defines risk appetite
• Has overall responsibility 
for the Group’s risk 
management process and 
internal control systems 
• Monitors risk exposure 
in pursuit of our 
strategic objectives
AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT
• Reviews the effectiveness 
of our risk identification 
and risk management 
process
• Reviews the effectiveness 
of internal control 
systems
• Supports the Board in 
monitoring risk exposure
TOP-DOWN
Identification and  
assessment of risk by  
Senior Management
BOTTOM-UP
Identification, assessment  
and mitigation of risk for  
business and functional  
areas, delivered through  
our Group Operating Model
• Sets the risk 
management process
• Provides oversight 
and challenge on the 
effectiveness of risk 
mitigation for our 
principal risks
• Considers emerging risks 
and also high-impact/
low-likelihood risks
• Internal Audit plans are 
focused on providing 
assurance on our principal 
risks to assist the Audit 
Committee in its review 
of the effectiveness of 
the risk management 
process and of our internal 
control systems
OPERATIONAL LEVEL
• Group-wide risk 
identification and 
assessment
• Ongoing monitoring of 
mitigations performed 
across the Group through 
management, key 
performance indicators 
and review by the 
appropriate Risk Manager
• Internal controls 
embedded across 
the Group
Risk management as a process to maximise the chances of achieving our strategic objectives
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
RISK TO ACHIEVING STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
To lead with  
and grow our  
Services  
business
To improve our  
Services productivity 
and enhance our 
competitiveness
To retain and maximise 
the relationship with  
our customers over  
the long term
To innovate our  
Services offerings to 
build future growth 
opportunities
1. Underdelivery on contractual commitments ➨ ➨ ➨
2. Systems outages ➨ ➨
3. Poor staff recruitment and retention ➨ ➨ ➨ ➨
4. Untested design and pricing structures ➨ ➨
5. Inadequate succession planning ➨ ➨
6. Poor control of direct costs ➨ ➨
7 . Adverse technology change ➨ ➨ ➨
8. Ineffective international business strategies ➨ ➨
9. Weak Group culture ➨ ➨
10. Poor control of working capital management ➨
11. Cyber threat ➨ ➨ ➨
12. Inappropriate investment ➨ ➨ ➨
13. Economic downturn ➨ ➨
17
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL IMPACTS RESPONSE TO RISK ALERT STATUS
1.  Underdelivery on contractual 
commitments
Failure to deliver against 
contractual commitments for 
our Services business. Either 
through poor transition and 
transformation activity or 
through the lack of delivery of 
committed service productivity 
improvements and service levels 
over the contract life.
• Customer 
dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• Reduced margin
• Reduced service and 
technical innovation
• Mandatory governance processes over the risks 
relating to transition and transformations
• Service management best practice
• Mature root cause analysis and lessons learnt 
processes for complex transformations
• Regular commercial and contract ‘deep dives’ 
to manage service productivity improvements
• Development of a deal-specific risk management 
process to formalise practices and increase visibility 
for 2016
Pre-mitigation 
– increasing 
in line with 
contract value
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
2. Systems outages
Failure(s) leading to unacceptably 
long outages or regular short 
outages of either informal or 
customer-facing systems.
• Customer 
dissatisfaction
• Business disruption
• Financial penalties
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• All Group standard systems are built and operated 
on High Availability infrastructure designed to 
accommodate failure of any single technical 
component
• All centrally-hosted systems are built and operated 
on High Availability infrastructure with multiple levels 
of redundancy
• All centrally-hosted systems benefit from dual 
network connectivity into core datacenters designed 
to accommodate loss of network service
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
3.  Poor staff recruitment 
and retention
Not recruiting and retaining the 
right calibre of staff across any 
of our customer-facing functions.
• Customer 
dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• Succession planning in place for top 50 managers
• Regular remuneration benchmarking 
• Investment in management development programmes
• An annual staff survey to understand and respond 
to employee issues
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
4.  Untested design and pricing 
structures
Key empowered decision makers 
within the Group fail to implement 
appropriate designs and pricing 
structures for Managed Services 
or outcome-based project 
management contracts. 
• Reduced margin
• Loss-making contracts
• Customer 
dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• Board oversight of significant bids
• Commercial governance process established across 
the business opportunity and sales teams, including:
 – commercial summaries for discussion and review
 – detailed costing analyses
 – risk-based decision-making
 – commercial feedback of lessons learned
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
5.  Inadequate succession 
planning
Inadequate succession planning 
and insufficient management 
depth within key senior 
management areas of the 
business.
• Lack of leadership • Succession plans in place for Executive Directors 
and other Senior Management
• Management development programmes in place 
to develop talent
• Incentive plans to aid retention
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– reducing as 
succession 
planning 
matures
6. Poor control of direct costs
Letting our direct costs run out of 
control and not taking advantage 
of productivity and cost 
reduction opportunities.
• Reduced margin • A range of metrics employed to ensure that we properly 
manage our direct costs and monitor productivity – 
including KPIs on staff availability, utilisation, cross-
charge efficiency and contractor ratio
• A significant amount of direct cost managed centrally 
to retain control
• Enhanced tooling and subsequent reduction in manual 
activity to deliver cost reductions
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– reducing in 
line with 
mitigating 
actions
18
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL IMPACTS RESPONSE TO RISK ALERT STATUS
7. Adverse technology change
Technology change dramatically 
reduces customer need and 
demand for our service offerings.
• Reduced margin
• Excess operational staff
• Contracts not renewed
• Well-defined Group strategy backed up by an 
annual strategy process that considers our offerings 
against market changes
• Group Investment & Strategy Board considers 
strategic initiatives
• Additional measures including win/loss reviews
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
8.  Ineffective international 
business strategies
Failure to deliver and effectively 
manage our international 
business strategies. By 
association the risk around 
take-on and management 
of our international partners.
• Reduced margin
• Customer 
dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• International management team strengthened
• International business partners (subcontractors) 
subject to robust governance processes both before 
take-on and in-life
• Alternate partners contracted in all priority countries
• Ongoing review of partner strategies
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
9. Weak Group culture
Failure to develop a Group culture.
• Loss of synergies
• Loss of brand identity
• Deployment of the Group Operating Model in the 
major geographies
• Management re-organisations undertaken to align 
country structures
• Group values and behaviours defined and announced 
and Group job alignment standardised
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– reducing as 
Group Operating 
Model is 
deployed
10.  Poor control of working 
capital management
Letting our inventory and/or 
receivables get out of control.
• Financial impact through 
obsolete stock and/or 
bad debts
• Implementation of debt management best practice 
following the centralisation of the UK, DE and FR collection 
functions at the Budapest Shared Service Centre
• Increasing focus on direct delivery reduces the level 
of ‘free stock’ in warehouses across the Group
• New procedures implemented during the year to 
improve inventory management
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– reducing as 
control 
processes 
improve
11. Cyber threat
A security hacking or virus problem 
that impacts Computacenter’s 
networks and systems and leads to 
the corruption or loss of sensitive 
business and personal data.
A security hacking or virus 
problem at a customer where 
the fault is identified as being 
Computacenter’s which leads 
to the misappropriation of 
sensitive customer data.
• Inability to deliver 
business services
• Customer 
dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• Well-communicated Group-wide information security 
and virus protection policies
• Specific inductions and training for staff working 
on customer sites and systems
• Specific policies and procedures for staff working 
behind a customer’s firewall
• Ongoing and regular programme of external 
penetration testing
• Governance processes strengthened by the hiring 
of additional management resource and internal 
organisational changes
• Ensuring Computacenter does not run customer 
applications and does not have access to customer data
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
12. Inappropriate investment
Not investing appropriately 
or over investing in the wrong 
automation, self-service and 
remote tools when compared 
to our competition.
• Reduced margin
• Win less new business
• Contracts not renewed
• This is linked to Risk 7 – we mitigate this through 
a range of measures including win/loss reviews, Senior 
Management forums and strategy reviews where we 
consider our offerings alongside our competitors and 
where the market is going
Pre-mitigation 
– holding 
steady
Post mitigation 
– holding 
steady
13. Economic downturn
Economic downturn leading to a 
significant reduction in customer 
IT budgets.
• Non-renewal of contracts
• Reduction in revenue
• Cost base too high 
compared to revenue
• Regular reporting and monitoring of revenue 
and margins at local and Group level
• Deep understanding of the cost of service allowing 
adjustable levels of service and customer price
• A commitment to excellent service and customer relations
• Ongoing management of cost base per Risk 6
New reported 
risk
19
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
3,054.2
3,063.3
3,030.2
2,878.0
2,811.2
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
86.9
81.1
78.0
75.7
71.0
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
53.4
44.1
41.3
38.9
35.8
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
21.4
19.0
17.5
15.5
15.0
DELIVERING 
FINANCIAL VALUE
Measuring our performance is key to future growth and achieving our aims. The information below highlights the 
consistent delivery of financial value to our stakeholders since 201 1.
Our aim is always to improve our financial performance in a way that is sustainable and facilitates the delivery of 
long-term value for shareholders. We always consider the long-term financial impact in our decision making process.
Adjusted revenue
1
 (£m)
3,054.2
-0.3%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 
(pence)
53.4
+21.1%
Dividend per share
3
 (pence)
21.4
+12.6%
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 (£m)
86.9
+7.2%
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVE 1
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVE 3
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVE 2
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVE 4
20
OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
656
647
597
585
526
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
84
82
80
81
81
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
83
82
72
73
64
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
990
934
890
857
758
BUILDING FOR 
THE LONG TERM
Our services-led strategy is focused on enabling users and their business. The Group’s progress against its strategic 
objectives is transparently measured by the following four key performance indicators.
Services contract base
2
 (£m) 
656
+1.4%
Number of customer accounts with 
contribution over £1 million
2
83
+1.2%
Adjusted Services revenue
1,2
 (£m) 
990
+6.0%
Adjusted Services revenue
1
 
generated per Services head
2
 (£’000)
84
+2.4%
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1
To lead with and grow our Services 
business
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3
To retain and maximise the relationship 
with our customers over the long term
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2
To improve our Services productivity 
and enhance our competitiveness
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4
To innovate our Services offerings to 
build future growth opportunities
21
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 As a global professional services company, Deloitte needs to 
continually evolve its client offerings. To minimise time to market and 
enable its practitioners, the firm wanted to leverage the agility and 
efficiency benefits of the cloud. 
As a first step on its journey towards an optimal cloud delivery model, 
Deloitte needed to deploy a private cloud environment as part of its 
Smart Datacenter initiative. To help build both the new datacenter, 
which is located in Germany, and the new private cloud platform, 
Deloitte recognised that Computacenter, with its extensive IT 
transformation expertise, would be the best partner for the project.
Computacenter and Deloitte took the lead on the transformation, 
sourcing, designing and deploying a range of physical and virtual 
technologies that underpin Deloitte’s Private Cloud Reference 
Architecture. It also migrated more than 1,000 terabytes of data 
and all company applications to the new cloud environment, which 
underpins core business processes at Deloitte. 
PRIVATE 
CLOUD TO 
INCREASE 
AGILITY
DELOITTE
Businesses and IT departments are under increasing 
pressure to transform in order to drive growth and 
efficiency. With cloud services at the forefront of this 
digital transformation, we deliver the ability to connect 
the business directly to IT and for IT to understand how 
its services directly influence market share and profits 
in driving new ways of working, delivery and productivity. 
Computacenter understands that the right balance of 
public, private and hybrid cloud solutions will enable 
organisations to gain a unique advantage for their users 
and business from cloud services.
Dr Christine Haupt
Director of Consulting 
Services, Computacenter
22
CASE STUDY CLOUD Using its industrialised processes, Computacenter helped remove 
risk and complexity from the datacenter transformation, while also 
controlling costs. 
The new datacenter will help Deloitte establish an optimal cloud 
delivery model, including hybrid services, which will enable its users 
to work more effectively and flexibly. The private cloud provides 
on-demand capacity that can be scaled to meet business and 
client demand, helping to minimise time to market and maximise 
competitive advantage. 
With support from Computacenter, we were able 
to accelerate our adoption of cloud services. The 
new datacenter provides Deloitte with an agile IT 
environment that will support the business and 
our client base as they continue to grow. 
Dr. Dietmar Schlößer, CIO 
Deloitte
23
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CLOUD VISA EUROPE
Enabling our people to be productive and 
effective is at the heart of our digitisation 
efforts. It doesn’t just impact how we work, 
but how we interact with others and the 
devices that we use. 
Dave Sherry
Head of IT at Visa Europe
24
CASE STUDY NGSD
NGSD Visa Europe wanted to adopt a more digitised approach to providing 
IT support services to its users in multiple geographies. As well as 
introducing new delivery channels and self-service options, the 
company wanted to make it easier for employees to access IT support 
while on the move. With a diverse user base, Visa Europe needed a 
flexible solution that would not only encourage employee engagement 
when resolving IT issues but also increase service desk efficiency.
As part of Visa Europe’s IT transformation strategy they signed up 
to Computacenter’s Next Generation Service Desk (NGSD) offering. 
NGSD, which went live to 3,400 users in 25 locations in April 2015, 
provides a consumer-like, user-centric experience with anytime, 
anywhere IT support delivered via an intuitive portal. A development 
hothouse and tailored employee communications helped maximise 
awareness and adoption, with more than 1,700 visits made to the 
NGSD portal on day one.
NGSD has transformed IT support at Visa Europe, encouraging users 
to embrace digital channels and self-service options. In the space of 
a week, online interactions with the service desk went from zero to 
40 per cent. These interactions included more than 200 online chats, 
which contributed to a drop in call volumes of 25 per cent. By providing 
a richer, more user-centric support experience, Visa Europe will be 
able to increase employee productivity and engagement with IT issues 
and queries being resolved more quickly and effectively.
VISA TRANSFORMS 
IT SUPPORT
The move to digital has gained pace and is now the top priority for our customers. NGSD is being 
developed to enable users further by the addition of a ‘consumer like’ request experience using 
what is known about the role and individual to pre-select products and auto-authorise. Customers 
are increasingly impressed with the NGSD Mobile App, enabling the support experience to travel 
with their employees. The broad adoption of NGSD into multiple business types reinforces this 
need to provide a great digital user experience across our entire market.
Steve Rayner
Group Service Innovation 
Director, Computacenter
25
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Computacenter works with us to achieve 
our goals. By optimising our IT systems and 
services, we can ensure the best outcomes 
for our staff and patients. 
James Longmore
ICT Director for Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust
Throughout the last year, we have concentrated our 
strategy on two pivots. Firstly, we are successfully 
deploying our mobility solution to our clients who are 
using the platform to deliver critical digital front line 
customer engagement and services. Secondly, we are 
ensuring that our Enterprise Mobility solution keeps 
pace with the rapid change taking place with our key 
technology vendors in the mobile solutions marketplace.
Pierre Hall
Director of Solutions, 
Computacenter
NHS WORCESTERSHIRE
26
MOBILE
CASE STUDY MOBILE Digitalisation is changing the nature of the NHS and healthcare 
services across the UK. To enable greater efficiency and better patient 
care, Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust wants to make patient 
data more accessible for its clinicians at the point of care. 
To help prepare its IT infrastructure for a digital age, Worcestershire 
Acute Hospitals NHS Trust, which delivers services to 550,000 people, 
partnered with Computacenter.
MAKING SMARTER 
DIGITAL CHOICES
The trust has signed a shared five-year Managed Services contract, 
which covers user and infrastructure support for more than 9,000 
NHS employees across 160-plus sites, including eight hospitals and 66 
GP surgeries. 
Computacenter is also helping Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS 
Trust transform its datacenter operations and virtualise and mobilise 
workplace IT. This will help facilitate new digital initiatives, such as an 
electronic prescribing and administration system that will provide 
staff with access to clinical apps at the point of care. 
Computacenter will draw on its industrialised processes and proven 
methodologies to streamline core IT services, such as problem, asset, 
capacity, security and build management, as part of the contract. 
Thanks to the partnership, NHS hospitals, health centres and GP 
surgeries in Worcestershire will be able to provide a more responsive 
and efficient service to thousands of patients. 
27
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INFORMATION 
SECURITY
28
COMPUTACENTER SECURITY
SECURITY Computacenter is actively engaged in the delivery of Managed Security 
Services and extensive Security Consultancy to its customers across 
Europe. However, we rarely detail the specific services we provide 
and how they relate to individual customers due to the sensitive 
nature of these services, the importance of Computacenter’s role 
in the prevention of cyber attacks for these customers, and our 
desire to avoid any scenario that could potentially compromise our 
customers‘ security. 
Therefore, in preference to a direct customer case study we have 
looked instead to an external validation of our portfolio of Managed and 
Consultancy Security services from the German analyst house Experton 
Group, who have commented:
Our continued investment in the development of new and enhanced 
cyber security offerings for our managed service and consultancy 
customers is a strategic imperative for Computacenter; it reflects our 
philosophy of putting security at the heart of every service we design, 
implement and manage. 
The information security market has witnessed a 
sudden and significant shift from delivering purely 
preventative solutions to those focused on detection 
and reaction. Only those organisations who successfully 
implement measures to prevent, detect and quickly 
react to security threats across the entire IT 
infrastructure – from the core to the edge – will be able 
to mount a robust defence against cyber attacks. 
 
At Computacenter we’re embracing this market shift, 
developing tailored security services for both 
Professional and Managed Services, all of which are 
continually evolving to meet the latest customer needs.
Jan Müller
Solution Director of 
Security, Computacenter
Computacenter sees security as an integral 
part of its portfolio – not only in the product 
and consulting business, but also in managed 
services. Computacenter ensures that the 
security aspect is included in all areas. Being 
a one-stop-shop, customers don’t need to buy 
services from third parties, but Computacenter 
integrates them directly in its solutions. This 
is not based on a particular manufacturer, but 
the best solution is always selected for the 
respective purpose. Experton Group considers 
this approach to be absolutely correct. 
Computacenter could therefore position itself 
in six of seven categories in the leader quadrant, 
which reaffirms its strong competitive position 
on the market.
Experton Group, Analyst House Germany
(Security Vendor Benchmark 2016)
29
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Workplace 22%
Datacenter & Networking 26%
So	ware 11%
Third Party Services 9%
Professional Services 8%
Contractual Services 24%
OUR PERFORMANCE
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Group’s adjusted revenues
1
 increased by 5.5 per cent in constant 
currency
2
 to £3,054.2 million, and decreased by 0.3 per cent in actual 
currency
2
 (2014: £3,063.3 million). 
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax
1
 has increased by 9.9 per cent 
in constant currency
2
 to £86.9 million, and by 7 .2 per cent in actual 
currency
2
 (2014: £81.1 million). As a result of the increase in the Group’s 
overall profitability and the share consolidation which took place on 
20 February 2015, adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 increased by 
21.1 per cent to 53.4 pence for the year. 
The Group made a statutory profit before tax of £126.8 million, an 
increase of 66.0 per cent in actual currency
2
, having been significantly 
enhanced by the disposal of the Group’s subsidiary, RDC, during the 
year. This resulted in the Group’s statutory diluted earnings per share 
increasing by 105.3 per cent to 82.1 pence in 2015. 
In 2015, the Group reported a net gain of £41.1 million from exceptional 
items. The Group’s onerous contracts have performed ahead of 
expectations throughout the year. The exceptional cost of the French 
Social Plan has increased by £1.5 million, from £9.1 million in 2014, to 
£10.6 million in 2015.
SERVICES PERFORMANCE IN 2015
The Group’s adjusted Services revenue
1
 increased by 6.0 per cent on a 
constant currency
2
 basis to £990.3 million, and was up by 0.8 per cent 
in actual currency
2
 (2014: £982. 1 million). The UK Services business 
continued its recent trend of top-line growth, principally driven by the 
significant Managed Services wins it achieved in 2014, and good levels 
of activity and utilisation across its Professional Services business. 
The volume of wins in 2014 presented the UK business with a major 
challenge for 2015, relating to the take on of a number of significant 
Managed Services contracts. We are pleased to report that these 
contracts have been taken on successfully, both from a service 
quality and financial perspective. The UK Services business win rate 
in 2015 has been a little quiet when compared with its performance 
over the previous three years. As a result, we expect that its revenue 
performance in 2016 will also be more modest than in recent times. 
2015 represented a breakthrough year for Computacenter in Germany’s 
Services growth rate, with high single-figure revenue growth for the 
first time following the implementation of Group governance standards 
and processes in 2013. We anticipate that the level of Services wins 
achieved in the second half of 2015 should allow this rate of growth to 
continue in 2016. The standard and financial performance of business 
take-on seen in the UK was replicated in Germany, with one exception 
in Germany for which a provision for future forecasted losses has been 
taken within the Group’s 2015 results. 
The Services revenue decline in France was expected following the 
loss of a small number of Services contracts towards the end of 
2014. The service quality delivered by our French business improved 
materially through 2015, along with a corresponding improvement in 
customer satisfaction. There remains significant work to do in order 
to transition the French business towards being more Services-led, 
which is necessary to ensure that the business generates financial 
returns acceptable to the Group. A lack of volume across its Services 
business has resulted in margin pressures through low utilisation of 
the French central engines, and in order to ease these in the short-
term we are focusing relentlessly on cost management. In respect of 
the longer-term, we continue to use targeted investment to enhance 
our brand and sales capability in this area. 
The pipeline for Services opportunities that we will be bidding for 
in 2016 continues to be strong in Germany, more exciting in the UK 
than was the case twelve months ago, and in France we have a small 
number of well-developed and important opportunities. 
The Group now has annual Services revenues of nearly £1 billion, 
and a large proportion of this is generated by our Managed Services 
contracts. As we have previously outlined in our 2015 Interim Results, 
it should be noted that across the Group’s Managed Services portfolio, 
there is inevitably a variance in the level of financial performance 
dependent on the stage that each contract is at in its lifecycle, with 
margins generally improving as contracts mature. During 2015, there 
has been an unusual timing of contract lifecycles, which is unlikely 
to be repeated in future years, and which has resulted in an overall 
benefit to the Group’s adjusted profit before tax
1
 performance during 
2015 of approximately £3 million. 
Group revenue by business type (%)
30
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Over the past few years, 
Computacenter has increased its 
investment made through the P&L 
to maintain organic growth.
SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE 
The Group’s adjusted Supply Chain revenue
1
 was up by 5.2 per cent 
on a constant currency
2
 basis at £2,063.9 million, and decreased by 
0.8 per cent in actual currency
2
 (2014: £2,081.2 million). Following a 
decent start to 2015, the Supply Chain business performance in the UK 
was below Management’s expectation, especially in the fourth quarter 
of the year where volumes were down on the comparative period in 
2014. The UK Supply Chain revenue performance has seen a major 
shift away from the Workplace, as many Windows 7 projects were 
completed, towards an increasing spend in Datacenter. The German 
Supply Chain business delivered substantial growth across all areas, 
producing its highest rate of growth since 201 1. Its revenue increase 
of 17 .5 per cent in constant currency
2
 undoubtedly took market share. 
There was an expected decline in our French Supply Chain volumes as 
the business continues to exit mid-market, low-margin generating 
business, and takes targeted action to increase its mix of Datacenter 
and Networking related product sales. 
As we move into 2016, Supply Chain opportunity remains focused on 
Datacenter and Networking. With a view to the longer term, there will 
be many pilot projects focused on Windows 10 which we would expect 
to drive the market in 2017 and beyond. 
CASH AND RETURN OF VALUE
Cash flow was again strong during 2015. Net funds
4
 increased £1.6 
million from £1 19.2 million at 31 December 2014 to £120.8 million at 
31 December 2015. However, this was impacted by the Return of Value 
and the disposal of RDC which had a net cash outflow of £43.2 million 
during the year as detailed in the table on page 46.
The Return of Value, as announced by the Group on 2 February 2015, was 
the Company’s third significant one-off Return of Value to shareholders, 
and the second such transaction in two years. Approximately £98 million 
was returned to shareholders during 2015, being 71.9 pence for every 
share held in the Company as at the close of trading on 19 February 2015. 
As part of the transaction, an associated share capital reorganisation 
took place on 20 February 2015, whereby every 17 ordinary shares of 6 
2
/
3
 
pence each in the Company were effectively consolidated into 15 ordinary 
shares of 7 
5
/
9
 pence each (the Share Consolidation). 
DIVIDEND
Ahead of changes to dividend taxation which will take effect on 6 April 
2016, we are pleased to announce a second interim dividend for 2015 (the 
Second Interim Dividend) of 15.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final dividend 
for 2015. The Second Interim Dividend will be paid on 5 April 2016.
The dividend record date is set on Thursday 24 March 2016, and the 
shares will be marked ex-dividend on Wednesday 23 March 2016. This 
has been agreed with the London Stock Exchange, given that these 
dates fall outside its normal dividend procedure timetable.
Following the payment of a first interim dividend for 2015 of 6.4 pence 
per share on 16 October 2015, the total dividend per share for 2015 will be 
21.4 pence per share. The total dividend per share for 2014 was 19.8 pence 
per share for those shares in existence immediately after the Share 
Consolidation. The Board has consistently applied the Company’s Dividend 
Policy, which states that the total dividend paid will result in a dividend 
cover of 2 to 2.5 times. Further detail on the Company’s Dividend Policy can 
be found with the Finance Director’s report on page 45.
INVESTMENT
Over the past few years, Computacenter has increased investment 
made through the P&L to maintain its organic growth. This was the case 
in 2015, and we will increase this level of investment further in 2016. 
During the period, we saw the first deployments of our Next Generation 
Service Desk (NGSD) offering into several customer environments. The 
early signs are most encouraging with users quickly embracing and 
using the portal to self-serve across a number of their needs. 
Our investments in 2016 will focus on our NGSD, Mobility, Cloud and Security 
offerings. In addition, we will increase investment in our internal systems 
to improve the productivity of our Services resources, particularly to 
enable our field force with technology. We will incur an additional P&L 
cost of approximately £1 million in property rental payments, as well 
as a capital expenditure spend of £3 million as we refurbish our London 
Blackfriars freehold property. We have now vacated this building and will 
operate in temporary office accommodation for the majority of the year. 
OUTLOOK
Due to the highly cash generative nature of our business and despite 
approximately £242 million of cash being distributed to shareholders over 
the last three years, it is likely that by the end of 2016 Computacenter’s Net 
Funds
4
 will be at record levels. 
We are encouraged by the momentum we have in our German business 
going into 2016. The pleasing performance in France in 2015, while unlikely 
to accelerate in the short term, should be repeated. 
The UK will have a more challenging year, particularly in the first half. 
Services revenue will decline in 2016 due to the expiry of a large contract 
at the end of the first quarter of 2015 and the large volume of business 
take-on last year creating a challenging comparison, coupled with the 
one-off £3 million gain highlighted in our Interim Statement in 2015.
We intend to increase the rate of spend on our strategic investments, 
which will be weighted towards the first half of the year, as we invest in our 
long-term competitive advantage through our income statement. 
While it is too early to make any firm commitments on the year as a 
whole and there is much work to be done, we expect 2016 to be a year 
of further progress. However, it is worth making clear that the effects 
referred to above will impact the phasing of our profit delivery and 
mean that the first half profit is expected to be below that reported for 
the same period in 2015.
The Company remains committed to long-term earnings per share growth 
through increased profitability and prudent use of our cash generation. 
31
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 UNITED
KINGDOM
Kevin James
Managing Director, 
UK
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The performance of the UK business was variable. We managed to 
maintain the pace of Services revenue growth seen in recent years, 
despite the loss of a significant contract. However, the performance 
of our Supply Chain business was below Management’s expectations, 
particularly during the second half of the year.
Adjusted revenue
1
 in the UK business increased by 2.6 per cent to 
£1,407 .4 million (2014: £1,372.4 million). Adjusted operating profit
1
 
decreased by 2.3 per cent to £59.3 million (2014: £60.7 million), whilst 
statutory profit before tax increased by 66.4 per cent to £101.7 million 
(2014: £61.1 million). 
SERVICES PERFORMANCE
Adjusted Services revenue
1
 grew by 7 .7 per cent to £532.4 million 
(2014: £494.2 million), which represents continued progress against 
the strong Services revenue growth achieved by the UK business in 
recent times. As we have previously reported, this performance has 
been impacted by the ending of a significant long-term Managed 
Services contract in 2015 following a strategic decision to in-source by 
the customer. However it should be noted that the UK’s 2015 adjusted 
profit before tax
1
 also benefited by £3 million from the unusual timing 
of contract lifecycles which is previously referred to on page 30. In 
2015, the UK business saw growth across its Services business, with a 
revenue increase of 7 .1 per cent in Managed Services and 9.6 per cent 
in adjusted Professional Services
1
. 
In Managed Services, we have had a very busy year of contract 
renewals, many of which have been renewed by the customer prior to 
the end of their initial term. We believe that this reflects the quality of 
service that the business continues to provide for its customers. 
Importantly, we have successfully renewed our Managed Support 
Services agreement with Computacenter’s largest customer, for 
whom we also continue to deliver significant Professional Services 
business, including a large Workplace transformation service. 
As is often the case, the significant number of Managed Services 
contracts renewed in 2015 has placed downward pressure on 
revenue and margins. The business has been able to offset much of 
the financial impact of this through the successful take on of those 
Managed Services contracts won in 2014. Despite some new in-year 
Managed Services wins, the rate and materiality of these was not 
as high as in 2014. We expect that this will result in a more modest 
Services revenue performance in 2016, and we have a number of 
initiatives underway to mitigate the financial impact of this through 
Services contribution improvement.
There is a solid Managed Services pipeline in place for 2016, which will 
provide an opportunity for the business to return to higher rates of 
Services revenue growth in 2017 . A number of the significant Managed 
Services opportunities available to the business over the next two 
years will be in major central government departments across 
Computacenter’s core capabilities. We are confident that references 
from our successful on-boarding of, and large service transitions from, 
wins from 2014 will prove invaluable in addressing these opportunities.
The UK business continues to be positively recognised for its levels of 
service quality in independent customer service satisfaction surveys 
carried out by each of KPMG LLP and the Whitelane Research Group 
during the year. In respect of the latter, we were placed first for end-
user services, and additionally in second position for overall customer 
satisfaction. 
During the year, our Professional Services business saw an increase 
in demand for transformation solutions, with projects becoming 
larger and business critical for its customers. A strong performance 
in our Datacenter Supply Chain business has driven revenue growth 
in excess of 40 per cent in our Professional Services business across 
core infrastructure technologies, offsetting the expected decline 
in Professional Services activity on Windows 7 . We believe that this 
demonstrates that we have built a solutions business with firm 
foundations which is delivering infrastructure solutions, balanced 
across the corporate enterprise. 2015 saw another record year for 
Professional Services volumes. 
The business continues to be positively 
recognised for its levels of service quality 
in independent customer service 
satisfaction surveys carried out by each 
of KPMG LLP and the Whitelane Research 
Group.
32
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
1,407.4
1,372.4
1,244.3
1,159.5
1,106.1
Workplace 19%
Datacenter & Networking 23%
Soware 11%
Third Party Services 9%
Professional Services 10%
Contractual Services 28%
SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE 
Adjusted Supply Chain revenue
1
 remained broadly flat at £875.0 million 
(2014: £878.2 million), following growth of 1 1.0 per cent in 2014. The 
period saw an interesting shift in spend across our customer base away 
from Workplace, as we saw an expected decline in Windows 7 migration 
projects driving an overall market reduction of PC shipments. Our 
product business mix has continued to move towards Datacenter and 
Networking as we begin to see a trend towards Mobility, Cloud, Analytics 
and Security drive growth across our portfolio. However, there remains 
a reasonable pipeline in our Workplace business, partially driven by 
the impact of Windows 10, with many customers engaged in trials and 
proof of concept projects. The impact, in terms of related projects being 
delivered by the business, is not likely to be felt until the end of 2016 at 
the earliest. The move in our Supply Chain mix towards the Datacenter 
area has been fuelled predominantly by the IT industry’s move closer 
towards Hybrid Cloud and virtualised infrastructure solutions. This 
assisted our Datacenter business in performing very strongly in 2015, 
building on the momentum it generated in 2014. 
Kevin James
Managing Director, UK
1 1 March 2016
Adjusted revenue
1
 (£m)
1,407.4
+2.6%
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m)
59.3
-2.3%
Services contract base (£m)
312.4
-6.5%
UK revenue by business type (%)
33
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GERMANY
Reiner Louis
Managing Director, 
Germany
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The German business performed well in 2015, driven by a strong 
Supply Chain performance and solid Services growth. We believe 
that we have been able to gain market share in our chosen market 
segments and that our recent wins, particularly in Managed Services, 
should support future growth across our business. 
Total revenue increased by 14.1 per cent on a constant currency
2
 basis 
to €1,651.9 million (2014: €1,448.3 million), and by 2.8 per cent in actual 
currency
2
. Adjusted operating profit
1
 for the German business, which 
excludes the three onerous contracts, increased by 13.6 per cent 
in constant currency
2
 to €37 .7 million (2014: €33.2 million), and by 
2.2 per cent in actual currency
2
. Statutory profit before tax increased 
by 5.3 per cent in constant currency
2
 to €36.0 million (2014: €34.2 
million), and decreased by 4.7 per cent in actual currency
2
.
SERVICES PERFORMANCE 
Services revenue grew by 7 .4 per cent in constant currency
2
 to 
€522.5 million (2014: €486.7 million), and decreased by 3.2 per cent in 
actual currency
2
. This included growth of 9.4 per cent in Professional 
Services and 6.6 per cent in Managed Services, both on a constant 
currency
2
 basis. 
Whilst the volume of Managed Services business generated from 
our existing customer base has increased, our growth was largely 
driven by new wins. These new wins came not only from sectors 
where the business traditionally generates high levels of activity, 
such as the automotive and aviation industry, but notably also from 
areas such as financial services. We have also completed a number 
of important renewals, such as the renewal and expansion of a major 
existing contract with an international insurance company based in 
Munich. There will be a number of further renewal opportunities for 
our Managed Services business to address in 2016. The successful 
take-on of Managed Services contracts in 2015 reflects the significant 
progress that has been made by the business in this area following 
the implementation of the Group Operating Model in 2013. The one 
exception to this is a Service Desk contract that started in 2015 and 
which has proven challenging and, as a result, was loss-making over 
the year. This loss-making position is expected to continue in 2016, 
albeit at a lower level, and a provision has been taken in the Group’s 
operating results to cover these losses as currently forecasted by 
Management. Our Managed Services pipeline remains strong, with a 
number of contracts won, but not yet on-boarded, and a number of 
new opportunities to be pursued in 2016. 
Following a weak first half of the year, our Professional Services 
business produced a strong performance in the second half of 2015. 
This was driven by a number of new project wins and an increase 
in activity from our existing customer base. Professional Services 
activity during the year was dominated by Cloud Building, SAP Hana, 
the refreshing of customer networking infrastructure and Security. 
We have also seen customers take their first steps towards Windows 
10, with Proof of Concepts (PoC) and testing for future Workplace 
infrastructure upgrades. There has generally been a scarcity of 
Professional Services resource available during the period, and whilst 
the business has a number of initiatives in place to mitigate against 
this issue, it is likely that this will remain the case in 2016.
SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE
The German Supply Chain business has performed strongly over 
the year, achieving revenue growth of 17 .5 per cent on a constant 
currency
2
 basis to €1,129.4 million (2014: €961.6 million), and by 
5.8 per cent in actual currency
2
. Although year-on-year revenue 
growth was seen across all areas of our Supply Chain business, the 
rates of growth across our Networking & Security and Datacenter 
businesses are worthy of particular note. 
In Networking, we have strengthened our customer base and 
increased our market share. This has been driven by new business 
wins in our major customer base, and a strong performance on 
framework contracts won in 2014. We have seen particularly 
strong growth across the Core Networking refresh, Cloud Building 
and Security infrastructure sub-segments. In Datacenter, we 
have benefited from our Cloud Building strategy and also from 
the growth of SAP Hana infrastructure installations. 
The German business performed well 
in 2015, driven by a strong Supply Chain 
performance and solid Services growth.
34
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
1,651.9
1,448.3
1,497.8
1,473.1
1,415.3
Workplace 18%
Datacenter & Networking 33%
Soware 7%
Third Party Services 10%
Professional Services 9%
Contractual Services 23%
New wins of x86 server contracts in our public sector and international 
customer bases have also made an important contribution to growth. 
In Workplace, we have managed to grow our business despite the fact 
that the overall market in Germany has contracted. This was driven 
by our capability around mobile, and new wins of overall Workplace 
framework contracts.
Our Supply Chain business has benefited from the ‘pull-through’ 
associated with an increase in our Managed Services customer 
base during the year. Supply Chain margins were slightly lower than 
last year due to the increased volume sizes of new business won, 
and also the large number of renewals. We see ongoing demand 
for infrastructure refreshes in Networking and also new cloud 
infrastructure building, which will support future Datacenter and 
Networking growth. Early adoption of Windows 10 will support our 
Workplace business, although we expect that demand for this will 
most likely impact activity levels in 2017 . 
Reiner Louis
Managing Director, Germany
1 1 March 2016
Revenue (€m)
1,651.9
+14.1%
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (€m)
37.7
+13.6%
Services contract base (€m)
365.3
+10.0%
Germany revenue by business type (%)
35
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
548.1
584.7
549.3
591.5
551.3
Workplace 43%
Datacenter & Networking 14%
Soware 22%
Third Party Services 5%
Professional Services 4%
Contractual Services 12%
FRANCE
Lieven Bergmans
Managing Director, 
France
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The Group’s French business has performed ahead of Management’s 
expectations in 2015, as we started to see the benefit of the sustained 
transformational and restructuring activity carried out in 2014. 
There has been a gradual, but consistent, improvement during the 
year in the financial performance of the business, and it enjoyed 
a particularly strong fourth quarter of 2015 in Supply Chain. Whilst 
progress has been made by the business during the year, there 
remains significant work to do to transition the business towards 
being more Services focused, with a business model more aligned to 
the Group’s other principal entities in the UK and Germany, which have 
consistently demonstrated good financial returns. Computacenter in 
France is on a journey which will require substantial change and focus 
in order to achieve an acceptable return on capital.
Total revenue for the French business decreased in constant 
currency
2
 by 6.3 per cent to €548. 1 million (2014: €584.7 million), and by 
15.5 per cent in actual currency
2
. It should be noted that this reduction 
was principally as a result of taking action to move the business away 
from low margin, working capital intensive business, and to focus on 
the Group’s target market. This has resulted in improved product gross 
margins. We continue to manage our cost base robustly which has 
resulted in a substantial reduction in administrative expenses. 
During the reporting period, the adjusted operating loss
1
 reduced in 
constant currency
2
 by 80.0 per cent to €2.2 million (2014: €1 1.0 million), 
and decreased by 81.8 per cent in actual currency
2
. The statutory loss 
before tax reduced by 80.8 per cent on a constant currency
2
 basis 
to €4.5 million (2014: €23.4 million), and by 82.5 per cent in actual 
currency
2
, as the business incurred a significantly lower level of 
exceptional charges than was the case in 2014.
SERVICES PERFORMANCE
Services revenue declined by 10.1 per cent in constant currency
2
 
to €86.8 million (2014: €96.5 million), and by 18.8 per cent in 
actual currency
2
.
 
Whilst Computacenter in France continues its journey to lead with 
its Services business, we have continued to suffer from the loss 
of a small number of Services contracts during 2014. The number 
of contract wins in 2015 was relatively small as our focus was on 
improving service delivery capability. As a result, Managed Services 
revenues declined by 10.3 per cent in constant currency
2
, and 
Professional Services revenues by 9.4 per cent. 
Increasing our Managed Service contract base remains fundamental 
to improving the French business performance, and the visibility and 
predictability of that performance. During the year, we have further 
implemented the Group Operating Model structure and aligned our 
Managed Services business to a Group function to enable it to leverage 
the Group’s tools and best practices in this area. 
Revenue (€m)
548.1
-6.3%
Adjusted operating loss
1
 (€m)
-2.2
-80.0%
Services contract base (€m)
80.2
+9.0%
France revenue by business type (%)
36
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED In the first half of 2015, the Group opened a Global Services Desk 
in Montpellier, which was designed and is operated in accordance 
with our industrialised Group processes. It is integrated with 
Computacenter’s 14 other Service Desk locations around the world. 
This interconnected approach allows us, for example, to deliver our 
Airbus Service Desk language requirements from three locations: 
for German in Berlin, French in Montpellier and other languages 
in Barcelona.
We continue to make improvements in the overall level of Service 
delivery we provide to customers. In a 2015 study by the Whitelane 
Research Group, measuring the performance of 20 outsourcing 
providers in France, Computacenter in France was ranked first for 
customer satisfaction in end-user Managed Services contracts. 
In order to increase the competitiveness of our Field Maintenance 
business which is sub-scale, uncompetitive and significantly loss 
making, and in line with current trends in the French IT Services 
market, we have decided to enter into discussion with staff 
representatives (works council and safety committee) to consider 
launching a project to outsource the delivery of Field Maintenance 
Services to channel partners who aggregate these types of services 
across France. 
The development of our Professional Services business continues, 
and we remain focused on acquiring specialist skills in Datacenter 
transformation services, such as the automation and orchestration 
of Cloud Management Platform solutions to reflect the market 
changes that are taking place.
We have industrialised our internal work processes and aligned 
our sales specialist team with our Professional Services delivery 
organisation. In line with the Group’s strategy, we continue to focus 
our effort and resource in Professional Services on Security, Mobility, 
Networking and transformation towards Hybrid Cloud. We anticipate 
that the arrival of Windows 10 will generate new opportunities for us 
to implement updated Workplace strategies for our customers.
In 2015 we have finalised the 
implementation of the Group Operating 
Model into our French business. 
SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE
In 2015, Supply Chain revenue declined by 5.5 per cent in constant 
currency
2
 to €461.3 million (2014: €488.2 million), and by 14.8 per cent 
in actual currency
2
. Our focus in this area has been predominantly 
based on increasing the focus of the business on our core customer 
base, improving the product mix of the Supply Chain business and 
reducing the working capital utilised in this area. 
The continuing refinement of our governance processes for high-
volume product bids has made a significant contribution to the 
improvement of Supply Chain margins during the year. It has also 
enabled the reduction of Supply Chain working capital investment, 
improved service levels and reduced penalty payments for failure to 
meet service level requirements.
Although the Supply Chain business mix has moved closer to that seen 
across our businesses in the UK and Germany, towards Datacenter 
and Networking, further progress is still required and we will continue 
to invest, as appropriate, to achieve this.
2016 PRIORITIES
In 2015, we finalised the implementation of the Group Operating 
Model into our French business, and thus have aligned our business 
model more closely with the Group’s UK and German businesses. We 
will continue to follow our strategy and concentrate our sales efforts 
towards large customers with a focus on our Services capability. We 
will also focus on further improving the product mix in our Supply 
Chain business whilst maintaining robust bid governance and working 
capital management.
As a result of the implementation of the Group Operating Model in the 
French business, we now have the capacity to leverage the Group’s 
capability for Managed and Professional Services in France, including 
its NGSD, Security, Mobility and Cloud capabilities. Additionally, we will 
continue to use the Group’s global coverage as a competitive advantage 
in our local French market as has already been demonstrated with 
a large Managed Services win in 2014, currently the Group’s largest 
Managed Services contract.
Lieven Bergmans
Managing Director, France
1 1 March 2016
37
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
67.6
65.4
56.8
56.1
49.5
Workplace 34%
Datacenter & Networking 20%
Soware 11%
Third Party Services 4%
Professional Services 3%
Contractual Services 28%
BELGIUM
Jurgen Strijkers
Managing Director, 
Belgium
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The Group’s Belgian business has performed well in 2015 and continues 
to generate solid top-line growth in constant currency
2
. Total revenue 
increased by 3.4 per cent in constant currency
2
 to €67 .6 million 
(2014: €65.4 million), and decreased by 6.8 per cent in actual currency
2
. 
Adjusted operating profit
1
 grew by 7 .7 per cent in constant currency
2
 
to €2.8 million (2014: €2.6 million), and decreased by 4.8 per cent in 
actual currency
2
. Statutory profit before tax increased by 8.7 per cent in 
constant currency
2
 to €2.5 million (2014: €2.3 million), and decreased by 
5.3 per cent in actual currency
2
. At the beginning of Q4 2015 the Belgian 
business went live on the Group’s ERP and related systems. The system 
transition was implemented successfully, without any material impact 
on levels of customer service delivery. The implementation of these 
improved systems and the Group Operating Model will enable the Belgian 
business to benefit from Group capabilities, which should assist it in 
pursuing future growth opportunities.
SERVICES PERFORMANCE
In 2015, total Services revenue reduced by 5.8 per cent in constant 
currency
2
 to €21.2 million (2014: €22.5 million), and by 14.9 per cent 
in actual currency
2
. This reduction was mainly driven by customer 
renewals and service transformation of our Managed Services, 
where by using Group capabilities which we were able to reduce 
the total cost of ownership for a number of our customers. 
During the year, there has been a significant focus on underpinning 
our future Services contract revenue base through the renewal of our 
existing Managed Services contracts. This has included the renewal 
of an end user Managed Services contract with UCB for a further three 
years, following an open market tender process. The business has also 
renewed its end user and infrastructure Managed Services contract with 
Baloise Insurance for an additional three-year period. Following a year 
in which a focus on renewals has been our overriding priority, there are 
a number of significant Managed Services contract opportunities in our 
current pipeline. Our Supply Chain and Professional Services capabilities, 
particularly in consulting, have enabled the business to win a number of 
infrastructure projects in 2015. These included the implementation of IT 
infrastructure for our customer, Wabco, at their new offices.
SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE
Supply Chain revenue increased by 8.2 per cent in constant currency
2
 
to €46.4 million (2014: €42.9 million), decreasing by 2.6 per cent in 
actual currency
2
. Whilst competition remains strong in the local 
market we continue to benefit from the loyalty of our customer base.
Jurgen Strijkers
Managing Director, Belgium
1 1 March 2016
Revenue (€m)
67.6
+3.4%
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (€m)
2.8
+7.7%
Services contract base (€m)
22.1
+12.2%
Belgium revenue by business type (%)
38
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED In 2015, Computacenter improved both statutory and adjusted profit 
before tax
1
 on the back of the effective implementation of new 
contracts in the UK, strong Supply Chain performance in Germany 
and the initial improvements from our ongoing re-focus and Group 
Operating Model implementation in our French business.
REVENUE 
Adjusted revenue
1
 for the Group fell by 0.3 per cent to £3,054.2 million 
(2014: £3,063.3 million). On a constant currency
2
 basis turnover 
growth was 5.5 per cent, reflecting the strength of the Pound Sterling 
against the weaker Euro.
Statutory revenue for the Group, including the results of RDC for all 
of 2014 and for January 2015, fell 1.6 per cent from £3,107 .8 million to 
£3,057 .6 million.
OPERATING PROFIT
Adjusted operating profit
1
 for the Group has increased 7 .9 per cent to 
£87 .1 million (2014: £80.7 million). On a constant currency
2
 basis the 
increase was 10.5 per cent.
The German segment was a key growth factor for the Group this 
year with an increase in adjusted operating profit
1
 of 13.6 per cent 
in constant currency
2
 and 2.2 per cent in actual currency
2
. Last 
year’s growth engine, the UK, saw a slight decrease of 2.3 per cent in 
adjusted operating profit
1
. The segment driving the overall adjusted 
operating profit
1
 growth was France, which reduced its adjusted 
operating loss
1
 by 80.0 per cent in constant currency
2
 from €1 1.0 
million to €2.2 million, and by 81.8 per cent in actual currency
2
. The 
Group’s statutory operating profit of £85.2 million is 1 1.2 per cent 
higher than in 2014.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 increased by 7 .2 per cent from £81.1 million 
to £86.9 million, or 9.9 per cent in constant currency
2
.
After taking account of exceptional items, primarily the exceptional 
gain on disposal of RDC of £42.2 million, the increased cost of the 2014 
restructuring programme in France (Social Plan) and the improving 
outlook for the German onerous contracts, statutory profit before tax 
improved by 66.0 per cent from £76.4 million to £126.8 million.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
The adjusted profit for the year
1
 increased 10.4 per cent to £67 .1 million 
at reported rates (2014: £60.8 million), an increase of 13.0 per cent at 
constant currency
2
 rates. The statutory profit for the year increased 
by £48.0 million to £103.1 million (2014: £55.1 million).
A reconciliation between key adjusted and statutory measures is 
provided on page 40 of this Group Finance Director’s Review. Further 
details provided in note 3 to the Financial Statements, segment 
information. 
The Group remains highly cash generative 
and net funds
4
 continue to build on the 
Group balance sheet, which helps to 
maximise shareholder value.
MAXIMISING 
SHAREHOLDER VALUE
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
39
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW RECONCILIATION FROM STATUTORY TO ADJUSTED MEASURES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 2015
Statutory
results
£’000
Adjustments
Adjusted 
results
£’000
RDC
£’000
CSF
interest
£’000
Utilisation of 
deferred tax
£’000
Exceptionals
and others
£’000
Revenue 3,057,615 (3,448) – – – 3,054,167
Cost of sales (2,654,468) 2,773 (340) – – (2,652,035)
Gross profit 403,147 (675) (340) – – 402,132
Administrative expenses (315,380) 355 – – – (315,025)
Operating profit:
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles  
and exceptional items 87,767 (320) (340) – – 87,107
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,553) – – – 1,553 –
Exceptional items (1,029) – – – 1,029 –
Operating profit 85,185 (320) (340) – 2,582 87,107
Exceptional gain on disposal of a subsidiary 42,155 – – – (42,155) –
Finance revenue 1,598 – – – – 1,598
Finance costs (2,171) – 340 – – (1,831)
Profit before tax 126,767 (320) – – (39,573) 86,874
Income tax expense:
Before exceptional items (23,605) 72 – 4,045 (314) (19,802)
Exceptional items (52) – – – 52 –
Profit for the year 103,110 (248) – 4,045 (39,835) 67,072
RECONCILIATION FROM STATUTORY TO ADJUSTED MEASURES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 2014
Statutory
results
£’000
Adjustments
Adjusted 
results
£’000
RDC
£’000
CSF
interest
£’000
Utilisation of 
deferred tax
£’000
Exceptionals
and others
£’000
Revenue 3,107,759 (44,488) – – – 3,063,271 
Cost of sales (2,697,842) 34,254 (569) – – (2,664,157)
Gross profit 409,917 (10,234) (569) – – 399,114 
  
Administrative expenses (323,814) 5,432 – – – (318,382)
Operating profit:
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles  
and exceptional items 86,103 (4,802) (569) – – 80,732 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,868) – – – 1,868 –
Exceptional items (7,588) – – – 7,588 –
Operating profit 76,647 (4,802) (569) – 9,456 80,732 
 
Finance revenue 1,615 (13) – – – 1,602 
Finance costs (1,844) – 569 – – (1,275)
Profit before tax 76,418 (4,815) – – 9,456 81,059 
Income tax expense:
Before exceptional items (21,115) 1,098 – – (238) (20,255)
Exceptional items (185) – – – 185 –
Profit for the year 55,118 (3,717) – – 9,403 60,804
40
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW CONTINUED UNITED KINGDOM
The UK Segment adjusted revenues
1
 grew 2.6 per cent in 2015, 
increasing to £1,407 .4 million (2014: £1,372.4 million). Adjusted Supply 
Chain revenues
1
 decreased 0.4 per cent consolidating the increased 
1 1.4 per cent growth in 2014. Underlying this broadly flat result is a 
large decline in Workplace PC shipments as the Windows 7 refresh 
cycle is largely complete and a material increase in our Datacenter 
and Networking business. This reflects our ability to respond to 
the changes in the market driven by the changing nature of our 
customer priorities. Significant aspects of the Datacenter and 
Networking growth were driven by the successful take on of several 
major Managed Services customers which continued to prove the 
importance of the approach of leading with Services as a driver for 
Supply Chain growth. Adjusted Services revenues
1
 grew 7 .7 per cent 
in 2015, following strong growth of 8.4 per cent in 2014. Within this, 
Managed Services revenue grew 7 .1 per cent as the new contracts 
that came on stream quickly contributed to top-line growth. As we 
have previously reported, this performance has been impacted by 
the ending of a significant long-term Managed Services contract in 
Q1 2015 following a strategic decision to in-source by the customer. 
However, it should be noted that the UK’s 2015 profit also benefited 
from £3 million from the unusual timing of contract lifecycles which 
we previously referred to on page 30. Professional Services in turn 
generated 9.6 per cent in adjusted revenue
1
 growth with high staff 
utilisation levels.
Margin rate in the Supply Chain business showed continued strength 
in 2015 with another small improvement over 2014 and the mix of 
business moving towards Datacenter and Networking. Services 
margin reduced slightly from last year mainly due to the expected 
impact of new Managed Services take-ons, which whilst better than 
expected, still had a margin dilutive impact. The UK continues to lead 
the Group in efficiency of delivery on Managed Services customers 
with the overall margins achieved at a rate which is towards the top 
of what can be reasonably expected. Total adjusted gross profit
1
 rate 
in the UK has increased slightly from 15.3 per cent to 15.4 per cent of 
adjusted revenue
1
.
Adjusted administrative expenses rose by 5.6 per cent, reducing 
from the 7 .5 per cent increase in 2014 and 9.8 per cent increase in 
2013. The UK segment continues to absorb the majority of the Group’s 
investment costs, as referred to on page 31, through its income 
statement. Where permissible, certain Group Management and 
Governance costs are recharged to other Group Segments, however 
the UK Segment continues to incur the majority of Senior Management 
and Group Governance costs due to the Group being UK domiciled and 
will continue to do so going forward as the Group continues to add 
strength to the team.
Overall this has resulted in a 2.3 per cent decrease in adjusted 
operating profit
1
 from £60.7 million to £59.3 million.
GERMANY
German revenue recovered strongly in 2015, in actual currency
2
, 
increasing by 2.8 per cent to £1,199.6 million (2014: £1,167 .1 million). 
In constant currency
2
 revenue increased 14.1 per cent.
 
Supply Chain revenue growth was very strong in 2015 at 17 .5 per cent 
on a constant currency
2
 basis, 5.8 per cent in actual currency
2
 
continuing the momentum seen in Q4 2014. Growth was strong across 
a number of segments with Workplace experiencing growth, even 
against the backdrop of an overall declining market. This was led by 
the Networking business line, partly driven by a strong performance 
on Framework contracts won in 2014.
Services revenues were also strong with 7 .4 per cent growth in 2015 
on a constant currency
2
 basis, a decline of 3.2 per cent in actual 
currency
2
, with significant impact from both Professional Services 
and Managed Services. Revenue from existing Managed Services 
contracts was encouraging, but the overall growth is mainly driven 
by a number of strategically important new wins. There were further 
contract wins in 2015 which provides a platform for growth in the 
year ahead, as these contracts are on-boarded and there is a strong 
pipeline into 2017 . Significantly, the lessons from 2013 have largely 
been learned with nearly all of the new contracts going through 
a successful take-on process. One contract has been somewhat 
disappointing so far, however, work continues to address this issue 
and based on past experience we are confident that it will be resolved. 
Our Professional Services business was very strong in the second half 
of the year, driven by customer focus on Cloud building and Network 
and Security refreshes in a post Windows 7 rollout world.
The rate at which the Supply Chain business grew through the year 
inevitably resulted in some margin attrition. The focus for 2016 
will be to maintain the volumes seen in 2015 and to slowly rebuild 
margin expectations across our newly won customer portfolio. Given 
the challenges within the Professional Services cost base and the 
inevitable teething problems as new Managed Services contracts 
come on-stream we are pleased that our Services margins have 
improved slightly over 2014, indicating the scope for future potential 
improvements as the German result continues to close the gap on the 
performance of UK Services margins. Overall adjusted gross profit
1 
margin within the German business has decreased from 13.0 per cent 
in 2014 to 12.3 per cent in 2015, primarily due to the margin dilution 
within the Supply Chain business.
 
Administrative expenses have increased by 6.6 per cent in constant 
currency
2
 but have fallen 4.0 per cent in reported currency.
Overall, the German segment adjusted operating profit
1
 increased 
by 2.2 per cent from £26.8 million to £27 .4 million in actual currency
2
, 
an increase of 13.6 per cent in constant currency
2
.
 
41
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FRANCE
The revenue in the French segment decreased by 15.5 per cent 
to £398.1 million (2014: £471.1 million) during 2015, a decline of 
6.3 per cent in constant currency
2 
, partly due to a Services business 
that has not been able to renew and rebuild its contract base. Supply 
Chain revenue decreased by 5.5 per cent on a constant currency
2
 
basis, 14.8 per cent decline in actual currency
2
, as the business 
was much more selective and reduced its focus on low margin 
high working capital intensive activities, as well as focusing on the 
Group’s core target market of large customers, rather than small 
and medium-sized customers. Whilst we have made some progress 
to align the product mix in France, more towards the more balanced 
Workplace, Datacenter and Networking lines of business, there is 
still substantial further progress required in this area. Services 
revenues reduced by 10.1 per cent in 2015 in constant currency
2
, 
18.8 per cent in actual currency
2
 with both Managed Services and 
Professional Services similarly impacted. The Managed Services 
contract losses in 2014 have not been offset by the small number 
of wins achieved in 2015.
Services gross profit in 2015 has been impacted throughout the year 
by the weak growth in demand for our Professional Service business 
where revenue reduced by 9.4 per cent on a constant currency
2
 basis, 
18.7 per cent in actual currency
2
. This exacerbates the continuing 
capacity utilisation issues seen since 2013, which results in the French 
service margins being significantly lower than those across the rest 
of the Group.
Similar issues are now being seen in the Managed Services business 
through the lack of wins in 2015, and apart from a small number of 
significant opportunities, the pipeline is generally fairly weak, this 
will continue to impact Services gross margin in 2016, albeit, there 
should be a small improvement on 2015. Customer service levels 
remain high, resulting in Computacenter France being ranked first 
for Customer Satisfaction for End-User Managed Services contracts, 
by the Whitelane Research Group. 
Significant investment is being made in both areas to reposition the 
business to deliver a higher quality of service to customers in our 
target market. This is evidenced by the opening of the Global Services 
Desk in Montpellier, our intention to restructure the sub-scale Field 
Maintenance business and the alignment of the Professional Services 
business to the wider Group Operating Model.
Gross margins in the Supply Chain business have increased 
throughout 2015 as the quality of product mix has improved 
with significant demand for Datacenter solutions in Q4 2015. 
This has materially increased the contribution rate of the Supply 
Chain business.
Overall gross margin increased from 6.7 per cent to 8.1 per cent 
approaching levels last achieved in 2013.
Administrative expenses decreased by 7 .9 per cent on a constant 
currency
2
 basis, 17 .0 per cent in actual currency
2
. In 2014 there was 
an additional charge of €2 million to provide for doubtful debts and 
disputes on the sales ledger at the end of 2014. Due to the efforts 
in cleansing the sales ledger and the recovery of overdue balances 
through 2015, €1.4 million of this additional provision has now been 
released back through the administrative expenses line. Ignoring 
the impact of this provisioning activity, administrative expenses has 
been largely flat with natural increases offset by the benefit from 
the French Social Plan and the ongoing business transformation 
which continues to take costs out of the business to improve both the 
competitiveness and long-term return to profitability. An additional 
cost of £1.5 million in implementing the Social Plan has been recorded 
as an exceptional item in 2015.
Overall, the adjusted operating loss
1
 in actual currency
2
 for France has 
decreased from £8.8 million in 2014 to £1.6 million in 2015.
BELGIUM
Revenue decreased by 6.8 per cent to £49.1 million (2014: £52.7 
million) but increased by 3.4 per cent in constant currency
2
. Supply 
Chain revenue increased 8.2 per cent on a constant currency
2
 basis, 
a decline of 2.6 per cent in actual currency
2
, rebuilding the business to 
2012 levels when it saw a very significant one-off Supply Chain order 
from one customer. This is especially pleasing as the customer base 
has broadened and become more international thereby reducing 
the opportunity for future revenue declines to be related to large 
individual customers. 
Services revenue declined by 5.8 per cent on a constant currency
2
 
basis, a decline of 14.9 per cent in actual currency
2
, during 2015. There 
was significant success in renewing existing contracts to underpin 
the contract base going forward, however, this has resulted in 
reduced Services revenue due to further contract efficiencies made 
for these long-term customers.
Whilst Services margin declined during the year, partly as a result 
of renewal margin pressures, as noted above, the product margin 
increased during the year, which offset the decline in Services 
contribution. This has resulted in an overall increase in gross profit 
for Belgium from 1 1.6 per cent in 2014 to 12.7 per cent in 2015.
Administrative expenses increased 18.0 per cent in constant 
currency
2
, 4.9 per cent in actual currency
2
, primarily due to take-on 
costs as the business moved fully onto the Group ERP system and 
the Group Operating Model that it underpins. The transition was 
implemented smoothly with no material adverse customer impact. 
Overall there has been a 4.8 per cent decrease in reported adjusted 
operating profit
1
 from £2.1 million in 2014 to £2.0 million in 2015, 
a 7 .7 per cent increase in constant currency
2
.
42
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW CONTINUED TABLE 1: ADJUSTED REVENUE
1
 (£M)
Half 1
£m
Half 2
£m
Total
£m
2013 1,403.8 1,626.4 3,030.2 
2014 1,435.4 1,627.9 3,063.3 
2015 1,438.0 1,616.2 3,054.2 
2015/14 0.2% -0.7% -0.3%
TABLE 2: ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX
1
 (£M)
Half 1 Half 2 Total
£m % £m % £m %
2013 24.4 1.7% 53.6 3.3% 78.0 2.6%
2014 25.6 1.8% 55.5 3.4% 81.1 2.6%
2015 29.1 2.0% 57.8 3.6% 86.9 2.8%
2015/14 13.7% 4.1% 7.2%
TABLE 3: ADJUSTED REVENUE
1
 BY COUNTRY (£M) 
2015 2014
Half 1 Half 2 Total Half 1 Half 2 Total
UK 688.7 718.7 1,407.4 652.5 719.9 1,372.4 
Germany 535.4 664.2 1,199.6 526.5 640.6 1,167.1 
France 189.8 208.3 398.1 230.9 240.2 471.1 
Belgium 24.1 25.0 49.1 25.5 27.2 52.7 
Total 1,438.0 1,616.2 3,054.2 1,435.4 1,627.9 3,063.3 
TABLE 4: ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
1
 BY COUNTRY (£M)
2015
Half 1 Half 2 Total
£m % £m % £m %
UK 22.9 3.3% 36.4 5.1% 59.3 4.2% 
Germany 8.5 1.6% 18.9 2.8% 27.4 2.3% 
France (3.0) (1.6%) 1.4 0.7% (1.6) (0.4%)
Belgium 1.1 4.6% 0.9 3.6% 2.0 4.1% 
Total 29.5 2.1% 57.6 3.6% 87.1 2.9%
2014
Half 1 Half 2 Total
£m % £m % £m %
UK 22.5 3.4% 38.2 5.3% 60.7 4.4% 
Germany 7.8 1.5% 18.9 3.0% 26.7 2.3% 
France (5.6) (2.4%) (3.2) (1.3%) (8.8) (1.9%)
Belgium 1.0 3.9% 1.1 4.0% 2.1 4.0% 
Total 25.7 1.8% 55.0 3.4% 80.7 2.6% 
43
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NET FINANCE COSTS
Net finance costs amounted to £0.6 million on a statutory basis in the period (2014: £0.2 million) and were impacted by a number of one-off 
items including historical extended credit interest charges for Computacenter Germany of £0.3 million that were previously unbilled by a vendor. 
In addition, finance charges were impacted by the final interest charges relating to the unwind of the discount on the deferred consideration for 
the purchase of Damax AG for £0.7 million which was finalised and agreed in June 2015. These one-off costs have been partially offset by higher 
than normal interest charges paid by French government customers for overdue receivables.
On an adjusted basis, prior to the interest on Customer Specific Financing (CSF), net finance costs were £0.2 million in 2015 (2014: £0.3 million income). 
CUSTOMER SPECIFIC FINANCING
In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts that are financed by leases or loans. The leases are secured only on the assets 
that they finance. Whilst the outstanding balance of CSF is included within the net funds
4
 for statutory reporting purposes, this balance is offset by 
contracted future receipts from customers. 
Whilst CSF is repaid through future customer receipts, Computacenter retains the credit risk on these customers and ensures that credit risk is only 
taken on customers with a strong credit rating.
The Group does not expect a material increase in the level of CSF facilities, partly as the Group applies a higher cost of finance to these transactions 
than customers’ marginal cost of finance. 
TAXATION
The adjusted tax
1
 charge on ordinary activities was £19.8 million (2014: £20.3 million), on an adjusted profit before tax
1
 of £86.9 million (2014: 
£81.1 million). The effective tax rate (ETR) was 22.8 per cent (2014: 25.0 per cent). The 2015 ETR is lower than the previous year due to a change in 
geographic split of adjusted profit before tax
1
 with significantly lower losses in France being the primary influence.
The statutory tax charge was £23.7 million (2014: £21.3 million) on profit before tax of £126.8 million (2014: £76.4 million). This represents a statutory 
tax rate of 18.7 per cent (2014: 27 .9 per cent). The exceptional gain on the sale of RDC of £42.2 million recorded in the statutory profit before tax for 
the year ended 31 December 2015 is not subject to taxation and is the major reason for the movement in the statutory tax rate.
The Group’s adjusted tax rate continues to benefit from losses utilised on earnings in Germany and also from the reducing corporation tax rate 
in the UK. As the German tax losses continue to be utilised, the deferred tax asset, previously recognised as an exceptional tax item, is no longer 
replenishing. The utilisation of the asset impacts the statutory tax rate but is considered to be outside of our adjusted tax
1
 measure. In 2015 this 
impact increased the statutory tax rate by 3.2 per cent.
From 2017 onwards the Group expects an increasing adjusted tax
1
 rate as the impact of the German loss utilisation manifests itself through 
an increasing cash tax payment. In 2016, the German adjusted ETR
1
 is expected to increase to circa 22 per cent from circa 15 per cent in 2015 
increasing to, and settling at, circa 32 per cent in 2018 with a direct effect on the Group adjusted ETR
1
. At 2015 levels of profitability the increase 
in German cash tax would raise the 2015 Group adjusted ETR
1
 from 22.8 per cent to 27 .8 per cent by 2018.
A Group Tax Policy was produced during the year and approved by the Audit Committee and the Board. The Group makes every effort to pay all the 
tax attributable to profits earned in each jurisdiction that it operates in. The Group does not artificially inflate or reduce profits in one jurisdiction 
to provide a beneficial tax result in another and maintains approved transfer pricing policies and programmes, to meet local compliance 
requirements, particularly given the implementation of the Group Operating Model. Virtually all of the statutory tax charge in 2015 was incurred 
in either the UK or German tax jurisdictions. Computacenter will recognise provisions and accruals in respect of tax where there is a degree of 
estimation and uncertainty, including where it relates to transfer pricing, such that a balance cannot fully be determined until accepted by the 
relevant tax authorities. There are no material tax risks across the Group.
The table below reconciles the statutory tax charge to the adjusted tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2015.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Statutory tax charge 23,657 21,300
Adjustments to exclude:
Utilisation of German deferred tax assets (4,045) –
Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 314 238 
Tax on exceptional items (52) (185)
RDC (72) (1,098)
Adjusted tax charge 19,802 20,255 
Statutory ETR (18.7%) (27.9%)
Adjusted ETR (22.8%) (25.0%)
44
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW CONTINUED EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
A gain from net exceptional items in the year of £41.1 million was recorded (2014: a net loss of £7 .6 million).
The principal item was the gain on the sale of RDC of £42.2 million. The sale occurred on 2 February 2015 with cash proceeds net of disposal costs 
of £59.8 million.
Further Social Plan provisioning in France of £1.5 million was required during the year. Whilst costs incurred against the existing level of the Social 
Plan provision have been at an expected level, further redundancy scope has been added to the Social Plan during the year with un-forecasted 
additional support to certain employees within the plan. An additional provision for legal costs of £0.4 million is included within this and has been 
made due to pending litigation stemming from appeals lodged by some employees within the plan. Further detail on these claims can be found in 
note 24 to the Financial Statements on page 123.
A release from the onerous contracts provision in Germany has been made for £0.4 million. This represents better than forecast performance 
over the year from the two remaining contracts resulting in less utilisation of the provision than planned. The initial contractual period for the two 
remaining contracts finishes in 2016.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 has increased in line with profit performance by 21.1 per cent from 44.1 pence in 2014 to 53.4 pence in 
2015. The statutory diluted earnings per share has increased from 40.0 pence in 2014 to 82.1 pence in 2015, primarily driven by the impact of the 
gain on disposal of RDC.
2015 2014
Basic weighted average number of shares (excluding own shares held) (no. ‘000) 122,948 135,985
Effect of dilution:
Share options 2,655 1,784 
Diluted weighted average number of shares 125,603 137,769 
Statutory profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (£‘000) 103,110 55,117 
Basic earnings per share (pence) 83.9 40.5 
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 82.1 40.0 
Adjusted profit for the year
1
 attributable to equity holders of the parent (£‘000) 67,072 60,803 
Adjusted basic earnings per share
1
 (pence) 54.6 44.7 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 (pence) 53.4 44.1
DIVIDENDS
The Board has consistently applied the Company’s Dividend Policy, which states that the total dividend paid will result in a dividend cover of 2 to 
2.5 times adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
. In 2015 the cover was 2.5 times (2014: 2.5 times).
 
The Group remains highly cash generative and net funds
4
 continues to build on the Group balance sheet. Computacenter’s approach to capital 
management is to ensure that the Group has a robust capital base and to maintain a strong credit rating whilst aiming to maximise shareholder 
value. If further funds are not required to be available for investment within the business, either for fixed assets or working capital support, and 
the distributable reserves are available in the Parent Company, we will aim to return the additional cash to investors through one-off Returns of 
Value. Dividends are paid from the standalone balance sheet of Computacenter Plc, and as at 31 December 2015, the distributable reserves are 
approximately £166.7 million.
Ahead of changes to dividend taxation which will take effect on 6 April 2016, we are pleased to announce a second interim dividend for 2015 (the 
Second Interim Dividend) of 15.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final dividend for 2015. The second interim dividend will be paid on 5 April 2016.
The dividend record date is set on Thursday 24 March 2016, and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on Wednesday 23 March 2016. This has been 
agreed with the London Stock Exchange, given that these dates fall outside its normal dividend procedure timetable.
Following the payment of a first interim dividend for 2015 of 6.4 pence per share on 16 October 2015, the total dividend per share for 2015 will be 
21.4 pence per share. The total dividend per share for 2014 was 19.8 pence per share for those shares in existence immediately after the Share 
Consolidation.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Details of the Group’s capital management policies are included within note 26 to the Financial Statements.
45
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NET FUNDS
4
Net Funds
4
 have increased from £1 19.2 million at the end of 2014 to £120.8 million as at 31 December 2015. In addition to the final 2014 dividend paid 
in June 2015 of £15.8 million and the interim 2015 dividend paid in October 2015 of £7 .7 million, the Group had a net cash outflow arising from the 
disposal of RDC and the Return of Value of £43.2 million.
£’000
Net Funds
4
 as at 31 December 2014 119,197 
Less: RDC cash as at 31 December 2014 (489)
Total consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 59,974
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of (3,829) 
Proceeds from disposal of RDC, net of cash disposed of 56,145 
RDC disposal costs (176)
Net cash inflows arising from RDC disposal after disposal costs and cash disposed 55,969
Return of Value (97,916)
Expenses on Return of Value (753)
Total cash outflow from Return of Value (98,669)
Net impact of disposal of RDC and Return of Value (43,189)
Other cash flows in the year 46,579
Non-cash flow movements (175)
Exchange differences (1,624)
Net Funds
4
 as at 31 December 2015 120,788 
The Group had no material borrowings outside of CSF leases and loans.
The Group continued to deliver strong cash generation from its operations in 2015, with net cash flow from operating activities of £93.9 million 
(2014: £94.4 million).
During the year material improvements were made in the collection of overdue debt within the French business. The Finance Shared Service 
Centre in Budapest has standardised and focused cash collection processes and cleansed a number of issues stemming from the poor ERP 
implementation in 2013. This, coupled with the disruption from the Social Plan implementation which led to backlogs preventing the timely 
processing of transactions, impacted cash collection and payment of invoices. Along with a drive from Senior Group Management the legacy 
collection and system related invoicing issues are now understood and have been largely resolved. The French debt balance overdue by more than 
60 days has decreased to under £4.6 million at 31 December 2015 from £17 .6 million at 31 December 2014. 
In the year we spent £20.6 million (2014: £17 .7 million) on capital expenditure, primarily on investments in IT equipment in our business and software 
tools, to enable us to deliver improved service to our customers.
Whilst the cash position remains robust, the Group continued to benefit from the extension of an improvement in credit terms with a significant 
vendor, equivalent to £47 .8 million at 31 December 2015, an increase of £9.2 million from 31 December 2014. This improvement in credit terms 
has been in operation since 2009 and whilst the continuation of these terms is not guaranteed and can be withdrawn at any time, the terms 
are generally available to all material partners of that significant vendor.
CSF decreased in the year from £9.3 million to £5.9 million. CSF remains low compared to historical levels due to a decision to restrict this form 
of financing in light of the current credit environment and reduced customer demand.
The Group’s Net Funds
4
 position takes account of current asset investments of £15 million. 
Net Funds
4
 excluding CSF decreased from £128.5 million to £126.7 million by the end of the year.
46
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW CONTINUED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and liquid 
resources, and various items that arise directly from its operations. The 
Group enters into hedging transactions, principally forward exchange 
contracts or currency swaps. The purpose of these transactions is 
to manage currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its 
sources of finance. As the Group continues to expand its global reach and 
benefit from lower cost operations in certain geographies such as South 
Africa, it has entered into forward exchange contracts to help manage 
cost increases due to currency movement. The Group’s policy remains 
that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are 
interest rate, liquidity and foreign currency risks. The overall financial 
instruments strategy is to manage these risks in order to minimise their 
impact on the financial results of the Group. The policies for managing 
each of these risks are set out below. Further disclosures in line with the 
requirements of IFRS 7 are included in the Financial Statements.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained 
profits, bank borrowings and finance leases and loans for certain 
customer contracts. The Group’s bank borrowings, other facilities and 
deposits are at floating rates. No interest rate derivative contracts 
have been entered into.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities 
in place to meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing requirements. 
The Group’s positive net funds
4
 position was maintained throughout 
2015, and at the year-end was £126.7 million excluding CSF , and £120.8 
million including CSF .
Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the Group is 
currently in a position where it can finance its requirements from its 
cash balance, and the Group operates a cash pooling arrangement for 
the majority of Group entities.
During 2013 the Group entered into a specific committed facility of 
£40.0 million for a three-year term which was to expire in May 2016. 
In February 2015 this facility was extended at the same value through 
to February 2018.
The Group has a Board monitored policy in place to manage its 
counterparty risk. This ensures that cash is placed on deposit across 
a range of reputable banking institutions.
CSF facilities are committed.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates primarily in the UK, Germany and France with 
smaller operations in Belgium, Hungary, India, Malaysia, Luxembourg, 
Spain, South Africa, Switzerland and the United States of America. 
The Group uses a cash pooling facility to ensure that its operations 
outside of the UK are adequately funded, where principal receipts 
and payments are denominated in Euros. For those countries within 
the Eurozone, the level of non-Euro denominated sales is small and, if 
material, the Group’s policy is to eliminate currency exposure through 
forward currency contracts. For the UK, the majority of sales and 
purchases are denominated in Sterling and any material trading 
exposures are eliminated through forward currency contracts. 
The Group has been increasingly successful in winning international 
Services contracts where services are provided in multiple countries. 
The Group aims to minimise this exposure by invoicing the customer 
in the same currency in which the costs are incurred. For certain 
contracts, the Group’s committed contract costs are not denominated 
in the same currency as its sales. In such circumstances, for example 
where contract costs are denominated in South African Rand, the 
Group eliminates currency exposure for a foreseeable future period 
on these future cash flows through forward currency contracts. 
In 2015, the Group recognised a gain of £1.2 million (2014: loss of 
£0.3 million) through other comprehensive income in relation to the 
changes in fair value of related forward currency contracts, where the 
cash flow hedges relating to firm commitments were assessed to be 
highly effective.
The Group reports its results in Pounds Sterling. The strengthening of 
Sterling, particularly against the Euro has impacted the 2015 adjusted 
operating profit
1
 by circa £2 million.
Credit risk
The Group principally manages credit risk through the management 
of customer credit limits. The credit limits are set for each customer 
based on the creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated 
levels of business activity. These limits are initially determined 
when the customer account is first set up and are regularly 
monitored thereafter.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the 
Group. The Group’s major customer, disclosed in note 3 to the 
Financial Statements consists of entities under the control of the 
UK Government. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to 
financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the 
balance sheet date.
GOING CONCERN
As disclosed in the Directors’ Report, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its 
operations for the foreseeable future. Accordingly they continue 
to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the consolidated 
Financial Statements.
Fair balanced and understandable
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes a requirement for the 
Board to consider whether the Annual Report and Accounts are 
‘fair, balanced and understandable’ and ‘provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.’
Management undertakes a formal process through which it can 
provide comfort to the Board in making this statement.
Tony Conophy
Group Finance Director
1 1 March 2016
47
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DOING 
BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBLY
Mike Norris
Chief Executive 
Officer
Computacenter is committed to carrying out business responsibly. 
In accordance with the 10 core principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC), upon which the Group bases its approach 
to responsible corporate behaviour, we are focused on three main 
areas – our people, the environment and the wider community. 
In 2009, the Group published its first Communication on Progress 
(CoP) on the UNGC website. We will again do so in respect of the 
progress we have made in 2015. This will shortly be available at  
www.computacenter.com/investors. 
Our first area of focus is to ensure that, in the workplace environment, 
the Group appropriately supports, develops and protects its people. 
This includes ensuring that the Group’s practices are compliant with 
human rights and employment legislation wherever it does business, 
and that it has policies and training in place to protect our people 
from breaching the law and the standards that we expect from 
them, in the course of their duties. In 2015, a new Group-wide Code 
of Ethics was designed to reflect the growth of our business across 
additional geographies, and this is in the process of being rolled out 
to all Group employees. The organisation continues to make clear its 
zero-tolerance approach to Bribery and Corruption, and continues 
to review, and where necessary update, our policies and processes 
in this area. 
We are focused on reducing the environmental impact of our 
activities, particularly in respect of the Group’s carbon emissions. 
In 2015, we have been reminded of the importance of this area as 
a number of our employees, suppliers and customers have been 
affected by increasingly volatile weather conditions seen across the 
UK. Whilst it is likely that emissions will increase at an absolute level as 
the Group continues to grow, we are resolute in our determination that 
progress made in recent years to reduce the level of emissions per 
employee will continue. I am pleased to report that our level of carbon 
emissions in 2015 was down 6.3 per cent per employee on the same 
measure for 2014. There remains more that the Group can do in this 
area, and we will continue to review how this can be achieved. 
The Group’s third area of focus is the contribution that it makes to the 
wider community in which it operates. Our approach in this area has 
always been that the societies and communities which provide our 
employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners themselves 
make an indirect, but important contribution towards the Group’s 
success, and it is important that Computacenter continues to give 
something back to these communities where it can. Additionally, it is 
increasingly the case that our existing and prospective customers 
view activity in this area as one of the determinant factors in where 
they wish to place their business. Therefore, not only is making an 
appropriate contribution in this area the right thing to do for the wider 
community, it is the right thing to do for our business.
The Group also take steps to ensure that the approach of those in 
its Supply Chain is compatible with that taken by the Group, and 
that they operate in a socially responsible manner. As a result of the 
progress we have made in this area, the Group has been reawarded 
its membership of the ‘FTSE for Good Index’ for 2016.
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
1 1 March 2016
48
CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PEOPLE 
Computacenter has always recognised that people matter. Alongside 
our customers, they are fundamental to the long-term success 
of our business. One of our highest priorities is to make sure that, 
within the workplace environment and in fulfilling their role, they are 
supported, protected, developed and also suitably recognised for the 
contribution that they make to the organisation.
SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE
The process to support our employees in understanding the Group’s 
culture starts from the moment they join us. They are required to 
complete a comprehensive induction course which outlines our 
values and, amongst other things, our approach to Health & Safety, 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption and our ethical standards. Employees 
also receive an in-depth local induction relating to their specific 
place of work. Our ability to support our employees, once in their 
day-to-day role, is facilitated through our engagement process. 
In 2014, alongside the implementation of its Group Operating Model 
into its main operating subsidiaries, Computacenter carried out its 
first Group-wide survey to find out what things are important to our 
employees. In 2015, the Group’s Executive Committee reviewed the 
results of this, and plans were put in place to deal with significant 
One of our highest priorities is to make sure that, in the 
workplace environment, our people are supported, 
protected, developed and suitably recognised for the 
contribution they make.
issues raised. As the Group-wide survey will take place every two years 
the business has conducted a smaller ‘pulse’ survey in 2015 to review 
how things have progressed in the interim 12-month period. Employee 
engagement also takes place through the existence of employee 
forums and councils across our main operating geographies. 
We provide our employees with a safe and healthy work environment. 
Within our main operating geographies, we employ dedicated 
Occupational Health Specialist teams that work with staff on health 
issues, and provide education on well-being activities. Our ‘Talk to 
the Expert’ webinar provided for employees covers most elements 
of health and well-being, including education on how to balance 
work and home life, and managing stress. Computacenter in the 
UK has a strong partnership with the charity MIND UK, and there is a 
programme of education in place for the Group’s Management team, 
in order to support them in recognising and managing stress and 
mental health issues within their teams. During the year, the Group 
funded a significant number of its employees to take part in the Global 
Corporate Challenge through which they were able to join a team of 
colleagues to compete internally and externally, with their levels of 
physical activity over a 100-day period measured and recorded.
UNGC 10 CORE PRINCIPLES
Category Principles
Human Rights
Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 
Principle 2 ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour Standards
Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Environment
Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and
Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption
Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
49
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 In 2015, Computacenter in Germany was deemed a ‘top employer’ 
for the fourth time by the German Top Employers institute. 
Talent strategy, HR planning, employee on-boarding, training and 
development, performance management, executive development, 
career and succession planning, compensation and benefits and 
corporate culture were all considered during the process. 
PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE – HEALTH & SAFETY
It is the Group’s policy that, as far as is reasonably practicable, a 
working environment is created and maintained which does not pose 
an undue risk to the health and safety of our employees, customers, 
suppliers, sub-contractors, visitors and members of the public. 
Our approach to health and safety is based on the identification 
and control of hazards. The prevention of all incidents, particularly 
those involving personal injury and damage to equipment or property 
remains a priority, and additionally near miss investigations are 
carried out to avoid similar occurrences and to maintain the efficient 
operation of the business. All of our employees are made aware of the 
importance of health and safety and contribute to the maintenance 
of a safe working environment. We promote consultation between 
employees and managers concerning matters of health and safety 
and provide the necessary finance, equipment, personnel and time 
to ensure its implementation and maintenance. 
2015 has resulted in a solid health and safety performance driven 
by an established Health & Safety Management System. We have 
continued to maintain the Accident Incident Rate (AIR) (i.e. the number 
of accidents per 1,000 employees), across our main operating 
geographies to below 2.5 and in the UK and France, the Accident 
Frequency Rate (AFR) (i.e. number of accidents per 100,000 working 
hours) to below 1.0.
Average Results for 2015 AIR AFR
UK 0.63 0.35
Germany 2.49 1.38
France 1.17 0.65
PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE – CONTROLS, POLICIES AND TRAINING
Business Ethics Policy
We abide by a clear Group-wide business ethics code, and are 
committed to observing the highest ethical standards in the conduct 
of our business activities. The policy explains what is expected from 
our employees in this regards and importantly, how they can report 
any concerns that they have to the business. This whistleblowing 
process is soon, for the first time, to be run and managed by an 
independent, external third-party provider. We are committed 
to building trust and transparency within our business and the 
implementation of an independent Whistleblowing line helps to give 
this both to our employees and to those who we engage with as part 
of an external business relationship. The Group-wide ethics policy 
includes provisions concerning personal standards of behaviour and 
also the way that the Group conducts business such as in respect 
of avoiding conflicts of interest, prevention of money laundering 
and ensuring compliance with insider trading and competition law, 
amongst other things. 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to Bribery and Corruption, 
whether committed by employees or anybody else working on our 
behalf. The high level of integrity with which we want to carry out 
our business does not vary depending on where we work or who we 
are dealing with. We continue to develop and refine our policies and 
processes around Bribery and Corruption as we continue to expand 
our business into new geographies. 
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE
Whilst the Group wants to support its employees, it also wants to 
do all it can to develop them professionally, so that they can fulfil 
their potential in the role that they perform for the Group. A Learning 
and Development team exists to maximise the talent of each 
individual employee, and support the Group’s high-performance 
culture. It provides a significant range of learning and development 
support solutions for a full range of business skills and specific 
business areas, including where individuals are working towards 
technical accreditations. The learning and development process 
at Computacenter is supported by line management, through 
the use of appropriate performance management processes. 
Development solutions include mentoring and coaching programmes, 
secondments, workshops, webinars, other on-line learning and the 
completion of academic or technical courses. 
REWARDING OUR PEOPLE
At Computacenter, we offer reward packages to deliver a high-
performing culture. We benchmark our salaries annually against our 
industry to ensure that we remain competitive. For a portion of the 
workforce, remuneration is weighted towards variable pay, to align 
individual performance to the value they deliver for the business 
and the overall Group strategy. There are processes in place to 
ensure that we remain legally compliant on remuneration related 
legislation across all of our operating countries. Recognition is also 
part of the overall package for employees at Computacenter. Our 
people are recognised when they continually display our ‘Winning 
Together’ values, or perform above and beyond what is required of 
them. Recognition can come from peers, managers or customers, 
and is provided in various financial and non-financial forms. We 
50
CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED offer a competitive range of benefits designed to meet the needs 
of our employees and their families. This includes a contributory 
pension scheme, life assurance, permanent health insurance, the 
option to purchase shares in selected geographies and an employee 
assistance programme.
ENCOURAGING DIVERSITY IN OUR PEOPLE 
We recognise that having a breadth of views within our organisation, 
from people who think, act and approach things differently, can only 
improve the performance of our business. Our approach to diversity 
aims to recognise, respect and value people’s differences, and 
promote an inclusive culture where an individual, no matter what 
their background, can work at and progress through our organisation 
based purely on their ability to perform the role which they have. 
The Group is committed to promoting a working environment where 
everyone is treated with respect and dignity, and in which any form 
of intimidation, bullying or harassment is not tolerated in any way. We 
believe that we need people who have different skills and aptitudes 
in order to function effectively as an organisation. All of the Group’s 
policies and processes are designed to be inclusive of diversity, and 
also disability. The Group has an Occupational Health department 
which works with any employee with a disability to make sure that 
they have the physical and work-related support that they need. 
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
We have taken a thorough approach to embedding corporate 
responsibility throughout our supply chain. With the Modern Slavery 
Act now in force in the UK, further review work on our supply chain 
is underway in this area and is planned throughout 2016. We aim 
to support our business by working with a diverse set of suppliers. 
When selecting who we want to work with, we ensure that our 
terms of engagement are clear and transparent, and such terms 
support both our Group values and our wider Corporate Social 
Responsibility objectives. We are committed to the promotion of 
equality of opportunity and diversity, and we build relationships with 
organisations which support and adopt similar principles. Our initial 
supplier selection process is carried out by way of a comprehensive 
supplier take-on questionnaire, which includes areas such as financial 
stability, adherence to the UNGC 10 core principles, Human Rights, 
Working Standards, Working Security, the Environment, Anti-Bribery 
and Corruption and Supply Chain responsibility. In summary, we look 
for diverse, ethical, financially stable counter-parties with whom we 
can do business.
OUR ENVIRONMENT
Computacenter is committed to improving the environmental impact 
of its business activities. Our customers, employees and others with 
whom we do business with in the UK have faced increasingly volatile 
and extreme weather during 2015, creating significant risks to their 
safety and property. It has brought into focus our ambition to increase 
energy efficiency across Computacenter. We continue to take many 
small steps, such as the continuing roll out of low energy LED lighting 
across our UK business. We continue to monitor our CO
2
 emissions in 
the UK and nine other countries where Computacenter has business 
activities, and invest in more energy efficient technologies. There is a 
cap set in place in the UK with regards to the Carbon Emissions levels 
for vehicles that are included within our ‘Green Fleet’ programme. 
As a result, the average CO
2
 emitted per UK vehicle has continued 
to reduce from 168g/km in 2009 to 1 14g/km in 2015, representing 
a 32 per cent reduction. 
We train and communicate with our employees to improve their 
awareness of environmental matters as part of our established 
Environmental Management System, registered to ISO 14001:2004.
51
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Computacenter plc 
mandatory greenhouse gas 
emissions reporting Methodology Recent UK- based emission reduction projects include:
Global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data 
for period 1 January to 31 December 2015
Emissions = Metric Tonnes of CO
2
e
Year 2014 2015
Scope 1 5,191 3,565
Scope 2 22,856 21,230
Total 28,047 24,795
We have used the main requirements of the 
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition).
Emission factors used are from the UK 
Government’s Conversion Factors supplied 
by Defra.
Based on external consultants Excel 
spreadsheets were further developed 
internally to include the full requirements 
to collate the additional emissions such as 
refrigerants. 
This activity has been conducted as part of 
our UK Environment Management System 
registered to ISO 14001:2004 (EMS 71255).
Group properties included in this report are all 
current locations in the UK, Germany, France, 
Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Luxembourg, 
Switzerland, Malaysia and Hungary. 
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. 
Limitations to data collection
Less than 5% of emissions were estimated or 
based on an average energy usage per square 
foot of space occupied.
Installation of four Voltage Optimisation Units 
saving 7-10% of electricity usage per year.
Continued investments in new technology 
helping reduce emissions in datacenters. The 
electricity used in the datacenters is circa 
55% of the total for the UK. These datacenters 
host customer’s Information Technology in 
the form of servers thus reducing their carbon 
footprint however, this increases the 
emissions for Computacenter as we become 
the landlord.
Investment was also made in the replacement 
of nine more efficient gas boiler systems 
located in the UK at the Hatfield and the 
London offices.
During 2015 the UK warehouse lighting was 
replaced with more energy efficient LED 
devices.
Limitations to data collection
Less than 5% of emissions were estimated or 
based on an average energy usage per square 
foot of space occupied.
Scope 1 = Combustion of fuel and 
refrigerants usage 
Scope 2 = Electricity, heat, steam
and cooling purchased for own use
Group’s chosen 
intensity measurements: 
Emissions as reported above, 8.11 metric 
tonnes per £m value of Group revenue: 
(-10.08% 9.02 metric tonnes in 2014).
Emissions as reported above 1.92 per Group 
employee: (-6.3% 2.05 in 2014).
We are pleased to report a 12% reduction of 
the total emissions compared to the results 
of 2014. Part of this reduction was due to the 
sale of our wholly owned subsidiary RDC. 
This is a positive achievement during the 
continued expansion of our Global activities. 
Scope 1/2/3 This data is available for the UK and is reported annually in the Carbon Discloser Project reports 
for both the Investors and supply chain requirements.
Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC)
(CRC8804716)
The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme, registered as a participant.
Packaging Waste Regulation Via the compliance company Paperpak, the UK is registered as a distributor of product ensuring 
full compliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004
(EMS 71255)
The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
52
CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Simon Pereira
Company Secretary
OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY
Computacenter wants to make a positive contribution in the 
communities in which it operates. Outlined below is a summary 
of a number of initiatives undertaken by Computacenter. The 
Group’s contribution in this area is primarily focused on providing 
opportunities to all for employment and education. 
In respect of employment opportunities our UK business is now 
involved in supporting the Career Transition Partnership, the aim of 
which is to provide support for people leaving the Royal Navy, Royal 
Air Force or the Royal Marines, with resettlement support, career 
transition advice and training opportunities. The partnership is the 
official provider of Armed Forces Resettlement, and Computacenter is 
in the first phase of the programme it offers, actively posting its jobs 
to ex-military personnel. In Montpellier, where the Group has relatively 
recently established a Group Service Desk, we have established a 
partnership with the local employment agency to provide employment 
opportunities to those not currently working. 
Our French business has continued its partnership with Aide et Action, 
to provide support for schooling of children who are forced into child 
labour due to their circumstances. A number of our UK employees 
have officially trained as ambassadors for the Herts Chamber of 
Commerce, under its ‘People Like Me’ campaign. They will now run 
official activities with schools local to our Head Office in Hatfield, to 
encourage girls to get into technology and science based activities. 
We have put together in the UK a School Outreach Programme with 
seven local academic partners, and this will include employability 
workshops, interview skills, guest speakers on apprenticeships and 
local careers fairs. We have launched our University CampusLink 
initiative connecting us with students and careers teams at over 
45 universities in the UK, which includes provision of career advice, 
interview and assessment centre practice, and guest lectures on IT 
and our Future Talent programmes. 
Our German business has run blood donation campaigns during the 
year in conjunction with the Red Cross. Computacenter’s Management 
and the ‘Works Council’ of the German business have jointly decided 
to donate €50,000 to support refugee integration projects. The 
projects will be selected in 2016 from suggestions made by our 
German employees. 
Simon Pereira
Company Secretary
1 1 March 2016
The chart below shows how the emissions are split by country 
showing the percentage: 
Belgium 1.29%
France 2.65%
Germany 32.6%
Hungary 0.39%
Luxembourg 0.06%
Malaysia 0.33%
South Africa 5.35%
Spain 1.39%
Switzerland 0.39%
UK 55.55%
Emissions = 24,795 Metric Tonnes of CO
2
e
The chart below shows how the UK Energy Usage is divided by percentage:
Datacenter 55%
Facilities 45%
53
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 1. Greg Lock
Non-Executive Chairman and 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee
Age: 68
Committee Membership: N, R
Board Member Attendance: 9/9
Greg is a Non-Executive Director 
of United Business Media plc. 
He has more than 45 years’ 
experience in the software and 
computer services industry, 
including seven years as 
Chairman of Kofax plc and 
four years as Chairman of 
SurfControl plc. From 1998 to 
2000, he was General Manager 
of IBM’s Global Industrial sector. 
Greg also served as a member 
of IBM’s Worldwide Management 
Council and as a governor of the 
IBM Academy of Technology. 
2. Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
Age: 54
Board Member Attendance: 9/9
Mike graduated with a degree 
in Computer Science and 
Mathematics from East Anglia 
University in 1983. He joined 
Computacenter in 1984 as 
a salesman in the City office. 
Following appointments 
in senior roles, he became 
Chief Executive in December 
1994, with responsibility for 
all day-to-day activities and 
reporting channels across 
Computacenter. Mike also led 
the Company through flotation 
on the London Stock Exchange 
in 1998. Mike was awarded an 
Honorary Doctorate of Science 
from Hertfordshire University  
in 2010. 
3. Tony Conophy
Group Finance Director
Age: 58
Board Member Attendance: 9/9
Tony has been a member of 
the Institute of Chartered 
Management Accountants 
since 1982. He qualified with 
Semperit (Ireland) Ltd and 
then worked for five years 
at Cape Industries plc. He 
joined Computacenter in 
1987 as Financial Controller, 
rising in 1991 to General 
Manager of Finance. In 1996, 
he was appointed Finance 
and Commercial Director of 
Computacenter (UK) Limited 
with responsibility for all 
financial, purchasing and 
vendor relations activities. 
In March 1998 he was appointed 
Group Finance Director. 
4. Peter Ogden
Non-Executive Director
Age: 68
Board Member Attendance: 8/9
Peter founded Computacenter 
with Philip Hulme in 1981 and 
was Chairman of the Company 
until 1998, when he became a 
Non-Executive Director. Prior 
to founding Computacenter, 
he was a Managing Director of 
Morgan Stanley and Co. 
Committee Membership Key
A – Audit Committee
N – Nomination Committee
R – Remuneration Committee
54
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5. Philip Hulme
Non-Executive Director
Age: 67
Board Member Attendance: 9/9
Philip founded Computacenter 
with Peter Ogden in 1981 and 
worked for the Company on 
a full-time basis until stepping 
down as Executive Chairman in 
2001. He was previously a Vice 
President and Director of the 
Boston Consulting Group. 
8. Regine Stachelhaus
Non-Executive Director
Age: 60
Committee Membership: A, N, R
Board Member Attendance: 9/9
Regine is a member of the 
Board of SPIE Paris and a 
member of the Supervisory 
Board of Covestro AG and 
Covestro Deutschland AG. 
She has been on the Board 
of Directors at E.ON SE, a 
major energy company 
included in the Eurostoxx 
50 index, where she had a 
broad range of operational 
responsibilities including for 
Legal & Compliance, Group 
Procurement, Group Human 
Resources and Group IT. Before 
that, she worked for several 
years as Vice President, 
Imaging and Printing Group 
of HP Germany.
6. Minnow Powell
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman
Age: 61
Committee Membership: A, N, R
Board Member Attendance: 9/9
Minnow is a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee of SuperGroup 
Plc and was a Director and 
chaired the Audit Committee 
of Tui Travel Plc from 201 1 
to 2014. Minnow spent 35 
years with Deloitte where he 
became a Partner in 1985. He 
is a Chartered Accountant and 
was a member of the Auditing 
Practices Board for six years.
7. Philip Yea
Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Age: 61
Committee Membership: A, N, R
Board Member Attendance: 4/5
Philip is a Non-Executive 
Director of Vodafone Group 
plc, Aberdeen Asian Smaller 
Companies Investment Trust 
plc and Greene King plc. 
He is also a trustee of the 
Francis Crick Institute. 
He has significant previous 
Executive Management 
experience, having served as 
the Chief Executive of 3i Group 
plc between 2004 and 2009. 
Prior to this, he was also the 
Finance Director at Diageo plc, 
and played a substantial role 
in the merger to create Diageo 
in his role as Finance Director of 
Guinness plc. 
55
GOVERNANCE Greg Lock
Non-Executive Chairman
The Board of Computacenter believes that 
effective governance practices are crucial 
in underpinning the Company’s ability to 
deliver long-term shareholder value.
I am pleased to present Computacenter’s Corporate Governance 
report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Board of Computacenter believes that effective governance 
practices are crucial in underpinning the sustainability of the Group’s 
financial performance and its ability to deliver long-term shareholder 
value. The Board is therefore committed to the principles of good 
governance and supports the guidelines contained within the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The Code is published by the 
Financial Reporting Council and can be found at www.frc.org.uk.
This Corporate Governance report outlines and explains the Group’s 
governance policies and practices, and sets out how the Code has 
been applied during the year ended 31 December 2015. It aims to 
assist our shareholders in understanding the Group’s approach to 
Corporate Governance. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the 
United Kingdom Listing Authority, and as a Company listed on the 
London Stock Exchange, Computacenter is required to review its 
practices against the provisions set out in the Code. A statement of 
its compliance with the Code can be found on page 58 of this report.
For ease of reference purposes, the Group has additionally prepared a 
separate report by reference to each of the Main Principles of the Code 
explaining how the Group has complied with each of these. This report 
can be found at www.computacenter.com/investors.
BOARD COMPOSITION
As the Chairman of the Board, it is important for me to ensure that 
the Board has the right composition to be effective in discharging its 
duties to the shareholders of the Company. This includes having the 
right balance of skills and experience, maintaining a strong level of 
independence and objectivity, and ensuring that all Directors have a 
good knowledge of the Group. Each of these factors was central to the 
decision-making process for the recruitment of the two new Non-
Executive Directors to the Board during the year, as set out below. 
The changes made to the Board since the 2014 financial year-end, and 
the process undertaken to facilitate them, have been described and 
explained in detail within the Nomination Committee report on page 
70. In 2015, both Minnow Powell and Philip Yea were appointed as Non-
Executive Directors of the Company. Minnow joined the Board with effect 
from 1 January 2015, and his appointment as a Director was approved 
by shareholders for the first time at the Company’s 2015 Annual General 
Meeting. We were also pleased to welcome Philip Yea onto the Board 
with effect from 23 June 2015. Philip brings with him significant public 
company directorship experience, both in executive and Non-Executive 
roles, He is a former Finance Director of Diageo plc and Chief Executive 
Officer of 3i Group plc, and has held Non-Executive Directorships at, 
amongst others, Manchester United plc and Vodafone Group plc. 
In accordance with the Company’s procedure for new Directors, both 
Philip and Minnow received a full induction, which included meetings 
with the Chairman of the Board and its Committees, the Group Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) and Group Finance Director (FD), the Group 
Human Resources Director (HR) and the Group Head of Commercial 
Finance, as well as other selected members of Group Management. 
During the year, Brian McBride stepped down from his position as 
the Senior Independent Director of the Company and Remuneration 
Committee Chairman with effect from 18 May 2015. He has been 
replaced in both roles by Philip Yea. John Ormerod also stepped down 
after eight years as a Non-Executive Director and serving as the 
Chairman of the Company’s Audit Committee. I would like to place on 
record my thanks to both John and Brian for the contribution that they 
have made to the Group’s development.
STRATEGY
The Board is collectively responsible for providing leadership to 
and promoting the success of the Group, and for implementing the 
business model set out and explained on pages 12 and 13 of this 
Annual Report and Accounts. It is essential for the Board to ensure 
that the Group has the right strategy in place to drive shareholder 
value, and to provide appropriate levels of support and challenge to 
the Executive Management Team. The development of the Group’s 
strategy continues to be discussed at every Board meeting, with an 
additional annual session dedicated to receiving strategy-related 
presentations from Group Executive Management. As part of its 
continuing review of the effectiveness of the Group’s strategy and its 
implementation, the Board has spent significant time reviewing the 
Group’s strategic key performance indicators. As a result, these are 
now reported on a constant currency
2
 basis.
Dear Shareholder,
56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
An internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees has now taken 
place for the reporting period. Further details of the process carried 
out and the findings of the evaluation can be found on page 59 of 
this report. After careful consideration of its findings, I am satisfied 
that the Board continues to function effectively and that its current 
constitution and range of skills are appropriate to ensure that the 
long-term interests of the Group and the Company’s shareholders are 
protected. In order to ensure that this remains the case, prior to the 
date of this report, the Board additionally reviewed the succession 
planning arrangements in place for both the Executive and Non-
Executive Directors. It also received a presentation from the Group HR 
Director on how internal talent within the Group immediately below 
Board level is managed and developed appropriately in the long-term 
interests of the Group. 
I also remain satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular 
the Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their 
roles at Board and Committee level as currently required by the 
Company. I will continue to assess both of these judgements to ensure 
that they remain the case on an ongoing basis.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
As it is entitled to do under the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Board delegates a number of its responsibilities to Committees so 
that it may carry out its functions effectively. A diagram of the Board 
governance structure is set out on this page. 
As part of its ongoing review of the Group’s governance procedures 
and framework, the terms of reference for each of these Committees 
was reviewed by the Board, and a number of the Group’s policies were 
reviewed and also amended during the year. The detail and format 
of information provided to the Board by Management was updated 
to allow a more effective review of the Group’s trading and financial 
performance.
BOARD VISITS
To assist in developing and updating the knowledge of the Directors of 
the Group’s business operations, visits to our Group offices overseas 
are organised for the Board on a regular basis. During the year, the 
Board held a meeting at the Group’s office in Munich, Germany, where 
it received presentations from the senior members of the in-country 
German unit and the Head of the in-country French unit. These 
focused respectively on the ongoing work of the German Management 
team to deliver sustainable growth across its Services business, and 
the recovery plan in France. 
DIVERSITY
The Board recognises the benefits that diverse skills, experience and 
points of view can bring to an organisation, and how it may assist 
the decision-making ability of the Board, thereby increasing its 
effectiveness. Whilst the Board continues to recognise and monitor 
the continuing debate around possible future legislation in this area, 
appointments to the Board will continue to remain primarily based 
on merit. As at 31 December 2015, the Computacenter Board had one 
female Non-Executive Director, Regine Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 
per cent of the total Board membership.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
This Corporate Governance report is intended to give shareholders an 
understanding of the Group’s corporate governance arrangements and 
how they operated during the 2015 financial year. The Board remains 
committed to communicating with our shareholders and, where 
appropriate, submitting its views and considerations for consultation 
and feedback. Further details regarding this engagement with our 
shareholders can be found on page 61 of this report.
In accordance with the Code, with the exception of Philip Yea who will 
be standing for election for the first time following his appointment 
to the Board in June 2015, all of the Directors will stand for re-election 
at the 2016 Annual General Meeting (AGM).
Greg Lock
Non-Executive Chairman
1 1 March 2016
Board Committees
AUDIT COMMITTEE
BOARD
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
57
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE – COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Computacenter is required under the Listing Rules and Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority to report to its 
shareholders on its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, as revised in October 2014. As such, the Board confirms that, 
except where indicated below, the Company has complied with each 
of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Provision B.1.2: Except for smaller companies, at least half the board, 
excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors 
determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in compliance with 
paragraph B.1.2 of the Code. The founders of the Company, Philip 
Hulme and Peter Ogden, are Non-Executive Directors, but are not 
considered independent under the Code, due to their long tenure, 
substantial shareholding in the Company and their previously held 
executive positions with the Company. The Board continues to review 
this matter and, as a result of the Board evaluation recently carried 
out, and of feedback provided to the Chairman from the independent 
Non-Executive Directors, it remains clear that the contribution being 
made by these two Directors to the Board, not least due to their 
continuity of service and knowledge of the Company, continues to 
be highly valued by its other members. As the term of these two Non-
Executive Directors is over six years, the Board has subjected their 
continued appointment to rigorous review, taking into account the 
need to refresh progressively the Board from time to time. As with all 
of the Directors, these two individuals are subject to re-election by 
shareholders on an annual basis, and their tenure as Non-Executive 
Directors remains in line with statutory provisions relating to the 
removal of a director. 
LEADERSHIP
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the management and performance of, 
and providing effective leadership to, the Group. It plays a key role 
in discussing, reviewing and approving the strategic objectives of 
the Group, and through the review of business plans and budgets 
submitted by the Executive Directors and Senior Management, is 
additionally responsible for ensuring that adequate resources 
are in place to meet and deliver these aims. The Board reviews the 
performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management 
against the targets set for the delivery of these agreed objectives, 
including a monthly review of the financial performance of each of the 
Group’s in-country units. Additionally, the Board has the powers and 
duties conferred upon it by the relevant laws of England and Wales 
and our Articles of Association. There is also a documented schedule 
of Matters Reserved for the Board which additionally includes the 
consideration and approval of, amongst other things, acquisitions, 
major capital expenditure, Group strategy and budgets, the Group’s 
Financial Statements and its Dividend Policy. This schedule was 
reviewed and updated once during the course of 2015, and is reviewed 
on an annual basis as a standing Board agenda item. This schedule 
can be found on our website at www.computacenter.com/investors. 
The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year to deal 
with the standing items on its agenda, including reviewing and 
discussing any information provided to it by Senior Management. 
The Board collectively views this as sufficient to discharge its duties 
effectively. Day-to-day management and operational activities are 
delegated to a duly authorised Group Executive Committee including, 
amongst others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief Operating 
Officer and Group Chief Commercial Officer. Other Board level matters 
are delegated to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees, details of which can be found at pages 66 to 84. The 
Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from the 
Company’s website, www.computacenter.com/investors or from 
the Company Secretary, upon request. The composition of each 
Committee as at 31 December 2015 appears on pages 66, 70 and 
75 following this report, as do reports from the Chairman of each 
Committee setting out the main responsibilities of their respective 
Committee and its main activities during the year. The Company 
arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action against the 
Directors and, to the extent allowed by legislation, the Company 
has issued an indemnity to each Director against claims brought 
by third parties.
Division of Responsibilities 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate 
and their responsibilities are clearly set out in writing, reviewed 
annually and agreed by the Board. They are available for inspection 
on the Company’s website at www.computacenter.com/investors. 
In summary, the Chairman’s role is to lead and manage the Board, 
and to play a role in facilitating the discussion of the Group’s strategy 
by the Board. The Chairman actively encourages contribution from 
all Directors and is responsible for ensuring that constructive 
interaction is ongoing between the individual members of the Board. 
The Chairman is also responsible for setting the Board’s agenda and 
ensuring that sufficient time is available for discussion of all agenda 
items, and in particular, strategic issues. 
The CEO, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day management of 
the Group’s operational activities and for the proper execution of 
strategy, as set by the Board. There is no dominant individual or group 
of individuals on the Board influencing its collective decision-making 
ability and the Board is comfortable that each of the Directors makes 
a valuable contribution to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors
Philip Yea was appointed as the Senior Independent Director with 
effect from 23 June 2015, following his appointment to the Board. 
In this role, Philip acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, and to 
serve as an intermediary between the Chairman and other Directors 
where necessary. He is available to take representations from both 
institutional and individual shareholders who do not want to raise 
their issue with the Chairman or where they feel that contact with 
him is not appropriate in the circumstances. In his role as the Senior 
Independent Director, Philip also leads the appraisal of the Chairman’s 
performance annually in consultation with the other Non-Executive 
Directors, without the Chairman being present.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met twice throughout the 
year without the Executive Directors being present.
EFFECTIVENESS
The Composition of the Board
The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2015 is set out 
on pages 54 and 55, and on that date included six Non-Executive 
Directors and two Executive Directors. The attendance of the Directors 
at Board and Committee meetings is additionally set out on pages 66, 
70 and 75 of this Annual Report. 
The Board has considered the independence of each Director, taking 
into account the guidance provided by the Code. The Chairman, Greg 
Lock, was considered by the Board to meet the independence criteria 
set out in the Code on appointment, and each of Minnow Powell, 
Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea are considered by the Board to 
be independent in their character and judgement.
Appointments to, and development of, the Board
The Company’s Nomination Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments. Further detail on the role, membership and work of the 
Committee during the year is set out on page 70.
Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction programme organised by the Company Secretary, tailored 
to their specific background and requirements. New Directors 
receive an induction pack which contains information on the Group’s 
58
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED business, its structure and operations, Board procedures, corporate 
governance related matters and details regarding Directors’ duties 
and responsibilities. All new Directors are introduced to the Group’s 
Senior Management team. The Chairman regularly liaises with each 
Director to discuss and agree their training and development needs. 
The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, 
ability and experience to perform the functions required of a Director 
of a listed company.
Commitment
Externally, there has been no increase in the other significant 
commitments of the Chairman of the Company during the year which 
would impact the time he has to fulfil the role. In light of the internal 
Board Evaluation completed for 2015, the Board is satisfied that each 
of the Directors is able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to 
discharge its responsibilities effectively. The terms and conditions of 
appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection both at the Company’s registered office and, on an annual 
basis, at the Company’s AGM. The standard terms and conditions for 
the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are also available on 
the governance section of the Company’s investor relations website 
at www.computacenter.com/investors.
Information and support
All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance of each 
Board and Committee meeting, including detailed briefings on all 
matters, in order to discharge their duties effectively in considering 
a matter and reaching a decision on it. 
A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain 
independent professional advice, at the Company’s expense, where 
they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties, and 
judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all 
corporate governance matters and provides advice to the Chairman 
of the Board to ensure that all Board procedures are followed. All 
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary 
is a matter requiring Board approval.
 
Evaluation 
An internally-run performance review of the Board, its Committees 
and individual Directors was undertaken for the financial reporting 
period. As part of this process a questionnaire was completed by 
each Director. The information from each questionnaire was then 
provided to the Chairman of the Board or Committee as appropriate, 
and the results further considered and discussed by the Board 
or Committee as a whole. The process confirmed that the Board 
continues to function well, but that Management Information provided 
to the Board prior to its meetings needed to be more concise, and 
that the Board should implement a formal process to analyse the 
merit, or otherwise, of previous decisions that it has made. The Board 
has determined the actions that need to be taken in response to the 
findings of the evaluation. However, as a result of the effectiveness 
review undertaken, the Board believes that each Director continues 
to contribute effectively and demonstrate appropriate commitment 
to the role. 
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Philip Yea, has carried 
out a review of the Chairman’s performance with input from the 
remaining Non-Executive Directors, with the feedback provided then 
discussed formally at the following meeting of the Board.
Re-election
Whilst the Company’s Articles of Association require a Director to be 
subject to election at the first AGM following his or her appointment 
and thereafter every third year, the Board has decided that, in 
accordance with the Code, with the exception of Philip Yea who will be 
standing for election for the first time, all Directors on the Board as at 
19 May 2016, should be subject to re-election at the Company’s next 
AGM to be held on that date. All Directors will then be subject to election 
or re-election at each AGM thereafter.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Financial and business reporting 
The Directors of the Company are required to include the following in 
this report under section C.1 of the Code. Please see: 
•  page 85 for the Board’s statement on the Annual Report and 
Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable and providing 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy;
•  page 65 for the statement on the status of the Company and the 
Group as a going concern; and
•  the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53 for an explanation of the 
Group’s business model and the strategy for delivering the 
objectives of the Group.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, the Directors have 
assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer-term perspective 
than the 12 months required by its ‘Going Concern’ statement 
requirement. The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group’s 
current position over a period of three years from the balance 
sheet date of this Annual Report and Accounts, 31 December 2015. 
This period was selected as an appropriate timeframe for the 
following reasons:
•  the Group’s rolling strategic review, as considered by the Board, 
covers a three-year period;
•  the period is aligned to the length of the Group’s Managed Services 
contracts, which are typically three to five years in duration; and
•  the short lifecycle and constantly evolving nature of the technology 
industry lends itself to a period not materially longer than 
three years.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be 
viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved 
we believe that a three-year period presents readers of the Annual 
Report and Accounts with a reasonable degree of confidence while still 
providing a longer-term perspective. The Board considers annually, and 
on a rolling basis, a three-year business plan consisting of the detailed 
bottom-up financial target for the current year (2016), following the 
balance date of this Annual Report and Accounts, and two further 
years (2017 and 2018) of forecast information driven by top-down 
assumptions overlaid on the detailed target year. The three-year plan 
was last considered and approved by the Board on 7 March 2016.
This three year business plan along with the current position and 
prospects and the Group’s strategy are subject to sensitivity analysis 
which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying 
the forecast. The forecast cash flows from the three year plan are 
aggregated with the current position and other contributors to 
provide a total three year headroom operating envelope against which 
the total impact of potential risks and uncertainties can be assessed.
In the absence of external debt within the Group, access to available 
uncommitted finance facilities, ability to raise new finance in most 
foreseeable market conditions and the ability to restrict dividend 
payments as an instrument of last resort were also considered.
59
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Impact of Risks 
The potential impact of the risks and uncertainties, as set out on 
pages 16 to 19 of the Annual Report and Accounts, was then applied 
to the outcome of the sensitised three year business plan. This 
assessment included only those risks and uncertainties that would 
threaten the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity over the assessment period and were considered in 
severe but reasonable scenarios and included any assessment of 
how the risks were managed and the effectiveness of any mitigating 
actions should the principal risks or uncertainties materialise either 
individually or, where a reasonable scenario could suggest, in unison.
Where appropriate, a sensitivity analysis is also carried out to 
evaluate the potential impact of the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties actually occurring.
The combined effect of the potential occurrence of several of the 
most impactful risks and uncertainties is then compared to the 
headroom envelope generated throughout the three year plan 
to assess whether the business is judged to be able to continue 
in operation.
Conclusion 
Based on the period and assessment above, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meets its liabilities as they fall due over the three year 
period to 31 December 2018.
Risk management
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. Please refer to pages 
16 to 19 for further information on the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties, including how they are being managed and mitigated. 
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing the risks 
faced by the Group lies with executive and operational management. 
A comprehensive risk management programme has been developed 
and is monitored by the Group Risk Committee, the members of which 
include Senior Operational Managers across the Group, the Group 
Finance Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk. The 
Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer. 
The Board sets the Group’s risk appetite and, through the Audit 
Committee, reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management activities. The Board receives regular reports from 
the Group Risk Committee and periodically reviews the strategic risks 
faced by the Group and key mitigation plans. 
Through a programme of assessment, appropriate measures and 
systems of control are maintained and, where necessary, developed 
and implemented. Detailed business interruption contingency 
plans are in place for all key sites and these are regularly tested, in 
accordance with an agreed schedule. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing the 
Group’s systems of internal control and ensuring that the controls are 
robust and effective in enabling risks to be appropriately assessed 
and managed. The Group’s systems and controls are designed to 
manage risks, safeguard the Group’s assets and ensure the reliability 
of information used both within the business and for publication. 
This system of control is designed to reduce to a level consistent with 
the Board’s risk appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the 
systems of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems. It is of the 
opinion that the Group has complied with the internal control 
requirements of the Code throughout the year. Where material 
weaknesses or opportunities for improvement are identified, changes 
are implemented and monitored. 
All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate and 
manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously. The key 
elements of the Group’s controls are as follows:
Responsibilities and authority structure
The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions 
and there is a written schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board. 
The Group Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis to discuss 
day-to-day operational matters and, with the implementation of 
the Group Operating Model now having taken place across all of the 
Group’s main operating entities, ultimate authority and responsibility 
for operational governance sits at Group level.
The Group operates defined authorisation and approval processes 
throughout all of its operations. Access controls exist where 
processes have been automated to ensure the security of data. 
Management information systems have been developed to identify 
risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems 
of internal control. Accountability is reinforced and further scrutiny of 
costs and revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to 
customer satisfaction and profitability.
Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure 
that proposals for capital expenditure are properly reviewed and 
authorised. Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and 
approved at divisional level. Major investment projects are subject 
to approval by the Board, and Board input and approval is sought for 
all merger and acquisition proposals.
Planning and reporting processes
A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by Senior 
Management annually and reviewed by the Board. A comprehensive 
budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the 
approval of the Board. Performance is monitored through a rigorous 
and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which 
monthly results are reviewed against budgets and agreed targets 
for the period which, additionally, are compared to historic data 
as deemed appropriate, such as for the previous year. The results 
and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board. 
Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
Management and specialists within the Finance Department are 
responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial 
records and processes that ensure financial information is relevant, 
reliable, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and 
distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner. 
A review of the consolidated Financial Statements is completed by 
Management to ensure that the financial position and results of the 
Group are appropriately reflected. All financial information published 
by the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Centralised treasury function
The Board has established, and reviews regularly, key treasury 
policies over matters such as counterparty exposure, borrowing 
arrangements and foreign exchange exposure management. The 
management of liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer 
specific requirements, ongoing capital expenditure and working 
capital of the business are all undertaken by the Group Treasury 
Function which reports to the Group Finance Director, with regular 
reporting to the Board.
60
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Quality and integrity of staff
Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new 
employees are of a suitable calibre. Management continuously 
monitors training requirements, and ongoing appraisal procedures 
are in place, to ensure that required standards are maintained across 
the Group. Resource requirements are identified by managers and 
reviewed by the relevant Executive Committee.
Compliance policies
The Group has in place a number of compliance policies which 
are applied, including those relating to Business Ethics and Anti-
bribery. Any breach of these policies by an employee is considered a 
disciplinary matter and is dealt with accordingly. The internal control 
regime is supported by the operation of a Whistleblowing reporting 
function, which is soon to be operated by an external independent 
third party provider.
Internal audit
The Group has an Internal Audit Function which reports to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. The function has direct access to 
the CEO and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Its key objectives 
are to provide independent and objective assurance on risks and 
controls to the Board, the Audit Committee and Senior Management, 
and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and 
regulatory responsibilities. The Board, acting through the Audit 
Committee, has directed the work of the Internal Audit department 
towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the 
highest risk. The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, 
ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently 
reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period. The programme 
and the findings of the reviews are assessed continually to ensure 
that they take account of the latest information and in particular, 
the results of the annual review of internal control and any shifts 
in the focus areas of the various businesses. The effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit department and the Group’s risk management 
programme are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee. The role of 
the Internal Audit function and its scope of work continue to evolve to 
take account of changes within the business. A formal audit charter, 
which was updated during the year, is in place to guide the work and 
procedures of the function.
Audit Committee and the Auditor
For further information on the Company’s compliance with the Code 
provisions relating to the Audit Committee and the Auditor, please 
refer to the Audit Committee on pages 66 to 69. 
Remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 84 explains the 
work of the Remuneration Committee, and the level and components 
of remuneration for the Directors.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises and values the importance of meeting the 
Company’s shareholders to obtain their views and has established a 
programme to communicate with shareholders, based on its financial 
reporting calendar. 
Dialogue with Shareholders
The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the ownership 
of the Company’s shares by the Company’s corporate brokers who 
provide monthly reports on that ownership. In addition, meetings 
are held with major shareholders following both the full-year and 
half-year results. Normally, these meetings are with the CEO and FD 
The whole Board is briefed on the outcome of these meetings and any 
issues raised are discussed. It additionally receives feedback reports 
from the Group’s public relations firm, Tulchan Communications LLP , 
and the Company’s corporate brokers, Investec plc and Credit Suisse. 
In addition, once a year, the Company’s top 15 shareholders are 
invited to meet individually with the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and Company Secretary to provide feedback on the 
Group’s Management and raise other comments, albeit only a few 
shareholders take up this opportunity. Specifically, at these meetings, 
the Company’s strategy and corporate governance arrangements are 
discussed and feedback is invited on any areas of particular interest 
from the relevant shareholder. These meetings are taking place in 
March and April 2016, in order to address any areas of discussion prior 
to the Company’s next Annual General Meeting. Again, the Board will be 
briefed on the outcomes of these meetings. Non-Executive Directors 
are available to meet with major shareholders at any time and can 
be contacted through the Company Secretary at the Company’s 
registered office address. 
Constructive use of General Meetings
All of the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the opportunity 
of welcoming individual shareholders and other investors to 
communicate directly and address their questions. In addition to 
mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced explanation of the 
business of all general meetings is sent in advance to shareholders. 
Resolutions at the Company’s general meetings have been passed 
on a show of hands and proxies for and against each resolution 
(together with any abstentions) are announced at such meetings, 
noted in the minutes, available on the Company’s website and notified 
to the market.
Annual General Meeting 
The AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday 19 May 2016 at the 
offices of the Company’s lawyers Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, 
London, EC2Y 8HQ. The AGM notice of meeting sets out each of the 
resolutions being proposed. This notice will shortly be available for 
download from www.computacenter.com, and will be mailed to 
shareholders if they have elected to receive hard copies.
Compliance with DTR
The information that is required by DTR 7 .2.6, relating to the share 
capital of the Company, can be found within the Directors’ report 
from page 62.
By order of the Board
Simon Pereira 
Company Secretary 
1 1 March 2016
61
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public limited company 
and is registered in England with the registered number 31 10569. 
Computacenter plc’s registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, 
Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9TW. The Company’s registrars are 
Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. 
The Directors present the Directors’ report, together with the audited 
accounts for the year of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary 
companies (the Group) for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Pages 1 to 85 of this Annual Report and Accounts are incorporated 
by reference into the Directors’ Report that has been drawn up and 
presented in accordance with English company law, and the liabilities 
of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules 
(LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in the Annual Report and 
Accounts , where applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this Directors’ 
report, with the exception of transactions with related parties, which 
is set out on page 130 (note 32 to the Financial Statements).
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a Strategic 
Report, which commences at the start of this Annual Report and 
Accounts up to page 53. The Strategic Report includes information 
about the Group’s operations and business model, financial 
performance throughout the year and likely developments, key 
performance indicators, principal risks and information regarding 
the Group’s sustainable development plan.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7 .2, the Company is required 
to include a Corporate Governance report within the Directors’ report. 
Information on our corporate governance practices can be found in 
the Corporate Governance report on pages 56 to 61, and the reports 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on pages 
66 to 84, all of which are incorporated into the Directors’ report by 
reference, as explained previously in this Directors’ report.
MANAGEMENT REPORT
This Directors’ report, together with the other reports, forms 
the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 4.1.8.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The Group’s activities resulted in a profit before tax of £126.8 million 
(2014: £76.4 million). The Group profit for the year, attributable to 
shareholders, amounted to £103.1 million (2014: £55.1 million). Ahead 
of changes to dividend taxation which will take effect on 6 April 2016, 
we are pleased to announce a second interim dividend for 2015 (the 
Second Interim Dividend) of 15.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final 
dividend for 2015. The second interim dividend for 2015 will be paid 
on 5 April 2016.
The dividend record date is set on Thursday 24 March 2016, and the 
shares will be marked ex-dividend on Wednesday 23 March 2016. This 
has been agreed with the London Stock Exchange, given that these 
dates fall outside its normal dividend procedure timetable.
Following the payment of a first interim dividend for 2015 of 6.4 pence 
per share on 16 October 2015, the total dividend per share for 2015 
will be 21.4 pence per share. The total dividend per share for 2014 
was 19.8 pence per share for those shares in existence immediately 
after the Share Consolidation. The Board has consistently applied the 
Company’s Dividend Policy, which states that the total dividend paid 
will result in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 times. Further detail on the 
Company’s Dividend Policy can be found with the Finance Director’s 
report on page 45.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they 
are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the 
shareholders. As such, the amount recognised in the 2015 accounts, 
as described in note 1 1 to the accounts, is made up of last year’s 
final dividend (13.1 pence per share) and the interim dividend (6.4 
pence per share).
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the procedures for 
governing the Company. A copy of the Articles of Association, which 
were not amended during the reporting period, is available on 
the Company’s website www.computacenter.com/investors. The 
Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS’ AUTHORITY
The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2015 were 
Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Brian McBride, Mike Norris, John 
Ormerod, Peter Ogden, Minnow Powell, Regine Stachelhaus and Philip 
Yea. Biographical details of each director, as at 31 December 2015, are 
given on pages 54 and 55. The Company’s Articles of Association require 
at each AGM that those Directors who were appointed since the last AGM 
retire, as well as one-third of the Directors who have been the longest 
serving. The Board has decided, in accordance with the Code, that all 
Directors, with the exception of Philip Yea, will retire at each forthcoming 
AGM and offer themselves for re-election. The Nomination Committee 
has considered the re-election of each Director and recommends their 
re-election. Further details on the Committee’s recommendations for 
the re-election of the Directors are set out in the Notice of AGM, as is the 
brief Curriculum Vitae of each Director, which collectively illustrate the 
skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board. At the 2016 
AGM, Mr Yea will offer himself for election to the Board for the first time 
following his appointment in June 2015. 
Subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company. The Company’s 
Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors consisting of 
not fewer than three, but not more than 20 Directors, who manage 
the business and affairs of the Company. The Directors may appoint 
additional or replacement Directors, who shall serve until the following 
AGM of the Company, at which point they will be required to stand for 
election by the members. A Director may be removed from office by the 
Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set 
out in the Company’s Articles of Association, and at a general meeting of 
the Company, by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution (provided special 
notice has been given in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006). 
Members have previously approved a resolution to give the Directors 
authority to allot shares, and a renewal of this authority is proposed at 
the 2016 AGM. This authority allows the Directors to allot shares up to the 
maximum amount stated in the Notice of AGM (approximately one-third of 
the issued share capital). In addition, the Company may not allot shares 
for cash (unless pursuant to an employee share scheme) without first 
making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing 
holdings. This is known as rights of pre-emption. A resolution to allow a 
limited waiver of these rights was passed by the members at last year’s 
AGM. At the Company’s 2015 AGM, members also approved a resolution 
giving delegated authority allowing the Company to make market 
purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the 
Company’s issued share capital, subject to certain conditions including 
price of purchase, amongst others. Each of these standard authorities 
will expire on 30 June 2016, or at the conclusion of the Company’s 2016 
AGM, whichever is the earlier. The Directors will seek to renew each of the 
authorities at the 2016 AGM, and full details are provided in the Notice 
of AGM. As at 29 February 2016, none of these authorities approved by 
shareholders at the 2015 AGM have been exercised. 
62
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors. These deeds contain qualifying third party indemnity provisions, 
indemnifying the Directors to the extent permitted by law and remain in force at the date of this report. The indemnities are uncapped and cover all 
costs, charges, losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS
The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations (appointments, holdings 
or otherwise), or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company. These notifications are 
then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the 
Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to (if deemed appropriate) authorise the situation. The register of notifications and authorisations 
is reviewed by the Board twice a year. Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has imposed the condition that the conflicted 
Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES 
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company, at the start and end of the reporting period, were as follows:
As at 31 December 2015
As at 1 January 2015 or date of 
appointment
Number of 
ordinary shares 
Beneficial
Number of 
ordinary shares
 Non-Beneficial
Number of 
ordinary shares
 Beneficial
Number of 
ordinary shares 
Non-Beneficial
Executive Directors
Mike Norris 1,142,157 – 1,288,939 –
Tony Conophy 1,786,915 – 2,025,177 –
Non-Executive Directors
Greg Lock 500,000 30,000 400,000 25,885
Philip Hulme 11,067,582 9,877,815 12,996,593 10,741,526
Peter Ogden 27,994,474 777,572 31,802,071 881,249
Minnow Powell 1,340 – – –
Regine Stachelhaus – – – –
Philip Yea 8,000 – – –
Between 31 December 2015 and 29 February 2016 there have been no changes to the interests detailed above. Save as disclosed in this report and 
the Remuneration Committee report, no Director has any interest (beneficial or non-beneficial) in any share or loan capital of the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES
In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 the Company was notified of the following 
disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares:
Name of Major Shareholder
Percentage of total  
voting rights held
Jethou Holding Company Ltd
*
16.35
Peter Ogden
*
7.1
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 5.33
Investec Asset Management Ltd 4.95
*   As announced by the Group on 30 March 2015, it was notified that Sir Peter Ogden had on 26 March 2015 transferred 100 per cent of the voting ordinary shares in Jethou Holding Company 
Ltd to certain adult members of his family for nil consideration.
Note: Between 31 December 2015 and 9 March 2016, the Company was notified by Schroders Investment Management Ltd that its percentage of 
total voting rights held had decreased to 4.856%. 
An updated list of the Company’s major shareholders is available at www.computacenter.com/investors.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO ORDINARY SHARES
As at 29 February 2016, there were 122,657 ,970 fully paid ordinary shares in issue, all of which have full voting rights and are subject to restrictions 
on transfer as set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, and additionally in respect of:
• certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those related to insider dealing; and
• the Company’s Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the Company’s shares.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled, subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of Association to:
• have shareholder documents made available to them, including notice of any general meetings of the Company; and
• to attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings of the Company, either in person or by proxy.
63
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 The Company is not aware of any arrangements between 
shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or other voting rights. 
Additionally, there were 292,944,196 deferred shares in issue. 
Pursuant to the Company’s share schemes, there are two employee 
trusts which, as at the year-end, held a total of 2,199,71 1 ordinary 
shares of 7
5
/
9
 pence each, representing approximately 1.79 per 
cent of the issued share capital. The rights attaching to each of the 
Company’s ordinary shares and deferred shares are set out in its 
Articles of Association. During the 2015 financial year, no ordinary 
shares in the Company were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise of 
options exercised under the Company’s outstanding option schemes. 
During the year, the trusts purchased a total of 1,305,163 shares in 
order to ensure that the maturities occurring pursuant to these share 
option schemes could be satisfied. In the event that shares are held 
by these trusts before being transferred to employee participants 
pursuant to the schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees 
do not exercise the voting rights attaching to such shares. The 
Trustees also have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares 
which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the 
Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company 
have change of control provisions contained within them that would 
be triggered. Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed 
to exchange their existing options for options of an equivalent value 
over shares in the acquiring company. Alternatively, the options 
may vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive 
schemes will generally be on a time-apportioned basis and under 
the Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their 
options to the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that 
time. The Company was granted authority at its Annual General 
Meeting on 19 May 2015, to make market purchases of up to 12,265,797 
ordinary shares of 7
5
/
9
 pence each. This authority will expire at 
the 2016 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to 
renew the authority. During the period no shares were purchased 
for cancellation.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND RELATIONSHIPS
Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used 
by the Group are provided in the Finance Director’s review on pages 39 
to 47 . These agreements each include a change of control provision, 
which may result in the facility being withdrawn or amended upon a 
change of control of the Group. It is also not extraordinary within our 
business sector for our longer term Services contracts to contain 
change of control clauses that allow a counterparty to terminate the 
relevant contract in the event of a change of control of the Company. 
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, except 
that provisions of the Company’s share schemes and plans may cause 
options and awards granted to employees under share schemes and 
plans to vest on a takeover.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are 
discussed in the Finance Director’s review on pages 39 to 47 .
EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
The Company operates executive share option schemes and a 
performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees. 
During the year, no options were granted under the executive share 
option schemes.
At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under these 
schemes were in respect of a total of 30,000 ordinary shares of 7
5
/
9
 
pence each (2014: 330,000 shares). During the year options over 
300,000 shares were exercised and no options over shares lapsed. 
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan (PSP) to 
incentivise employees. During the year, 690,807 ordinary shares of 
7
5
/
9
 pence each were conditionally awarded (2014: 780,051 shares). 
At the year-end, awards over 2,279,008 shares remained outstanding 
under this scheme (2014: 2,673,423 shares). During the year, awards 
over 487 ,335 shares were transferred to participants and awards over 
597 ,887 shares lapsed. In addition, the Company operates a Sharesave 
scheme for the benefit of employees. As at the year-end, 3,957 ,127 
options granted under the Sharesave scheme remained outstanding 
(2014: 4,025,176).
CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND POLITICAL 
DONATIONS
The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way 
benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, the 
environment and employees alike. Further information can be found in 
the report on pages 48 to 53 and covers matters regarding health and 
safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee involvement 
and employee development. During the year, the Group did not make 
any political donations to any political party or organisation and it did 
not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 
to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and diversity 
and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the workplace. 
The Group’s policies for recruitment, training, career development 
and promotion of employees, are based purely on the suitability of 
the employee and give those who may be disabled equal treatment to 
their able bodied colleagues. Where an employee becomes disabled, 
subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to enable that 
employee to continue in their current job. However if, due to the 
specific circumstances, it is not possible for an employee to continue 
in their current job, they will be given suitable training for alternative 
employment within the Group or elsewhere.
The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies and practices 
to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as its 
own internal standards. The Group is committed to making full use of 
the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy 
environment that encourages productive and mutually respectful 
working relationships within the organisation. Policies dealing with 
equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take 
account of the Group’s overall commitment and also address local 
regulatory requirements.
Gender split across the Group
Male Female
Percentage of Directors of the Company 87.5% 12.5%
Percentage of persons who are senior 
managers of the Group 81.6% 18.4%
Percentage of employees in the Group 77% 23%
The table directly above is incorporated by reference into the 
Strategic Report at pages 1 to 53 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
64
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant 
business issues, especially matters which affect their work and 
working environment. A variety of methods are used to engage with 
employees, including team briefings, intranet, email and in-house 
publications. The Group will use one or more of these channels to 
brief employees on the Group’s performance and the financial and 
economic factors affecting the Group’s performance. In particular, 
the Group operates a Save As You Earn (SAYE) share scheme, which is 
open to eligible employees, where employees are encouraged to save 
a fixed monthly sum for a period of either three or five years. Upon 
maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant savings period, 
participants can purchase shares in the Company at a price set at 
the commencement of the savings period. The primary method used 
to engage and consult with employees is through team briefings, 
where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, 
discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the 
communication of the Group’s goals, are driven by our e-FACE tool. 
Annual assessments via our e-FACE tool are a formal requirement of 
all managers. 
Employee consultative forums exist in each Group country to 
consult staff on major issues affecting employment and matters 
of policy, and to enable management to seek the views and opinions 
of employees on a wide range of business matters. Should there 
be cross-jurisdictional issues to discuss, a facility exists to engage 
a European forum made up of representatives from each country 
forum. The Group regularly reviews the performance of its employees 
through a formal review process, in order to identify areas for 
development. Managers are responsible for setting and reviewing 
personal objectives, aligned to corporate and functional goals. The 
Board closely oversees and monitors management skills and the 
development of talent to meet the current and future needs of the 
Group. The Board directly monitors and reviews closely, succession 
and plans for developing identified key senior managers.
BUSINESS ETHICS
A Group Ethics policy is now in place, which commits its employees to 
the highest standards of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, 
suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business. The 
policy includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or 
non-conformance with the policy and sets out the procedures to 
be followed. 
GOING CONCERN
Computacenter’s business activities, business model, its strategic 
goals and its performance are set out within the Strategic report 
on pages 1 to 53. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out within the 
Finance Director’s review on pages 39 to 47 . In addition, notes 25 and 
26 to the Financial Statements include Computacenter’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its 
exposures to credit and liquidity risk. 
The Directors have, after due consideration, a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for a period of twelve months from the date of approval 
of the Financial Statements as set out from 90 to 138 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
AUDITOR
Following an audit tender process carried out by the Company in 2014, 
Ernst & Young LLP stepped down from its role as the Group’s statutory 
Auditor with effect from the 2015 AGM. A resolution to appoint 
KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Group was approved by the Company’s 
shareholders at the Company’s 2015 AGM. A resolution to reappoint 
KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Group will be put to shareholders at the 
forthcoming 2016 AGM.
 
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS
Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with 
any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent or 
more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters 
at general meetings are known as ‘controlling shareholders’. The 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules now require companies 
with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally 
binding agreement (a Relationship Agreement) which is intended 
to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain 
‘independence related’ provisions. The Company confirms that it has 
undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review 
whether it has any ‘controlling shareholders’. Following this process, 
it was determined that there was no requirement on the Company to 
enter into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders. The 
Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 2015, 
but will keep the matter under review.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of 
the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which 
the Group’s Auditor is unaware; and
• each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be 
expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Group’s Auditor is aware of that 
information.
  
Mike Norris   Tony Conophy
Chief Executive Officer  Group Finance Director
1 1 March 2016
65
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Minnow Powell
Audit Committee Chairman
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE
As at 31 December 2015, the Audit Committee was comprised of the 
three Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board. All members 
are considered to be appropriately qualified and experienced to fulfil 
their role and allow the Committee to perform its duties effectively. 
For the purposes of Code provision C.3.1, two members of the 
Committee, both Minnow Powell and Philip Yea, are considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience.
MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee met five times during the course of 2015. Meetings 
are routinely attended by the Chairman of the Board, Group Finance 
Director, Chairman of the Group Risk Committee, Group Head of 
Financial Reporting, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management 
and the external Auditor. They cover a standing list of agenda items 
which is based on the Committee’s terms of reference, and considers 
additional matters at the discretion of the Chairman as and when 
deemed necessary. Meetings are also attended by the Group Company 
Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee. I am satisfied that 
the flow of supporting information to the Committee is appropriate 
and provided in good time to allow members sufficient opportunity 
to review matters due for consideration at each Committee meeting. 
I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled to allow sufficient 
time to enable full and informed debate. 
In addition to the meetings of the Committee, the Chairman also met 
privately on occasion with individual members of management during 
the year, principally in order to discuss the risks and challenges faced 
by the business and, importantly, how these are being addressed. 
On two occasions during the year, the Committee meets separately 
with the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk 
Management without management present.
PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
Immediately following each meeting of the Committee, the Chairman 
reports to the Board on its activities, and how it is discharging 
its responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference which 
can be found on the Company’s website at www.computacenter.
com/investors.
Its main responsibilities during the year, as set out in the Code, were 
as follows: 
• to monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the 
Company and any formal announcements related to the 
Company’s financial performance, and to review any significant 
financial reporting judgements contained therein;
• to review the Company’s internal financial controls and review 
the Company’s internal control and risk management systems; 
• review the effectiveness of the Company’s Internal Audit and Risk 
Management functions;
• review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties relating 
to financial or other matters in confidence and ensuring that 
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and 
independent investigation of such matters;
• review on an ongoing basis the Company’s relationship with its 
external Auditor, including monitoring its independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, ensuring 
that an appropriate policy is in place concerning any engagement 
of the Auditor for the provision of non-audit services to the 
Company and making recommendations to the Board in respect 
of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor 
and the remuneration paid to it by the Company; and
• the provision of advice to the Board to enable it to report on 
whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
The activities of the Committee are based upon its Terms of 
Reference, and are set out below:
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND JUDGEMENTS
The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of 
the Group and, in doing so, considered the following key judgements 
made in their preparation:
Revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition policies were a focus of the 
Committee’s work during the year. Following the consideration of a 
detailed report received from the external Auditor in their first year 
and discussions with Management concerning the overall principles 
and practical application of revenue recognition for both Services 
and Supply Chain revenue, the Committee concluded that the timing 
of recognition continues to be in line with current IFRS requirements, 
and that the judgements exercised by Management in this area are 
appropriate. The Committee also noted, as set out in their report, the 
detailed findings of the audit procedures carried out by the external 
Auditor both on Supply Chain and Services revenue. 
Current Members Role
Attendance 
record
1.  Minnow Powell 
(Chairman)
Non-Executive Director 5/5
2. Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 5/5
3. Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 1/2
Former Members Role
Attendance 
record
5. John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 2/2
6. Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 3/3
66
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Exceptional and other Adjusting Items
The Committee considered the nature and quantum of those 
items disclosed as exceptional in the Group’s 2015 Annual Report 
and Accounts. It considered the judgements made by Management 
in calculating an updated provision for the restructuring in France, 
reviewing the nature and estimates of increased costs alongside 
input from the external Auditor to confirm that these were 
reasonable. Following this review, the Committee concurred with 
Management’s assessment to recognise an additional restructuring 
cost of £1.5 million.
The Committee also reviewed the classification of the gain recognised 
by the Group following its sale of R.D. Trading Limited in February 2015. 
Following input from the external Auditor, it considered Management’s 
proposal that the gain be reported outside of the Group’s adjusted 
results
1
. The Committee was satisfied that Management’s proposal 
to report the gain as a separate line on the face of the income 
statement, due to its materiality and infrequency, was in line with the 
Group’s accounting policy and assisted in presenting the Group’s 2015 
results in a manner which is fair, balanced and understandable. 
The Committee has continued to monitor the progress of the Group’s 
two remaining onerous contracts in Germany during the year. 
Following ongoing improved operational and financial performance 
on these contracts, it was proposed by Management that £0.4 million 
of the provision taken in respect of losses forecast to be incurred on 
the contracts be released as an exceptional item in the Company’s 
2015 Accounts. The Committee reviewed the judgements made by 
Management in this area and agreed that the proposed quantum of 
release was appropriate.
The Committee also considered the presentation of adjusted profit in 
the first half of the Annual Report and Accounts, after taking account 
of the Financial Reporting Council guidance on exceptional items. 
We concluded that the presentation of adjusted profit gave clarity on 
performance and was reconciled appropriately to reported amounts, 
with sufficient prominence.
Going concern basis for the Financial Statements
To inform the Board’s assessment of whether it was appropriate 
for the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Financial 
Statements, at both the half year and full year, the Committee 
considered detailed reviews, based on the Group’s financial 
plans, in relation to liquidity and solvency of the Group taking into 
consideration its cash position and committed bank facilities. 
It considered the financing requirements of the Group in the context 
of available committed facilities, including one of £40 million 
which remains undrawn, and challenged Management’s forecasts 
concerning trading performance. The Committee noted the Code 
requirement for the Directors to state whether they consider it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for 
a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the 
Group’s 2015 Financial Statements. Following its considerations, 
the Committee was satisfied that the going concern basis of 
preparation continues to be appropriate.
Overdue French receivables
During the year, the level of overdue receivables owed to the Group’s 
French business has (as set out in note 18 in the Financial Statements) 
reduced substantially from that outstanding at the end of 2014, 
against which a provision was recognised at that time. The Committee 
monitored the position throughout the year and requested that the 
Auditor review the position at year-end, with specific consideration 
being given to the nature of remaining receivables and their likely 
recoverability. The Committee reviewed the work carried out and 
considered that the remaining provision was appropriate.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The Code now requires the Directors of the Company, taking into 
account the Group’s current position and principal risks, to explain 
in the Annual Report and Accounts how they have assessed the 
prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why 
they consider that period to be appropriate. The Directors are further 
required to state whether they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as 
they fall due over the assessment period they have chosen, drawing 
attention to any qualifications or assumptions as necessary. This new 
requirement is known as a ‘Viability Statement’.
Following its review of proposals from Management, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that it set the period of assessment for 
this Viability Statement at three years, given the nature of the Group’s 
business model and its strategic time horizon. The Committee and 
Board reviewed Management’s financial forecasts for the three-year 
period of assessment, and challenged the process undertaken and 
assumptions made by the Group’s Risk Committee in assessing how 
those forecasts would be impacted by a realistic concurrence of the 
Group’s principal risks. As a result, the Committee recommended 
to the Directors that they could make the statement required for 
the assessment period without qualification. The statement and 
explanation from the Directors can be found with the Corporate 
Governance Statement on page 56.
OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITY
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own Terms of Reference 
against the Code and the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance for 
Audit Committees, following which these were submitted to, and 
subsequently approved by, the Board. It received and approved a 
recommendation from Management for the implementation of a 
Group-wide Ethics Policy to underpin and complement the updated 
controls soon to be in place which enable staff, in confidence, to 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other 
matters. Prior to the date of this report, it also received a report from 
an independent third-party consultant reviewing the adequacy of the 
Group’s anti-bribery and corruption procedures, following a number of 
recommendations made by it as a result of a similar exercise carried 
out at the beginning of 2014. 
The Committee reviewed policies, processes and the reporting of the 
Group’s tax and treasury functions, and controls around purchase 
to pay and order to cash. A review of the Company’s distributable 
reserves was carried out prior to the declaration of a second interim 
dividend by the Company in the respect of the reporting period. 
Having been requested to do so by the Board in accordance with 
Code provision C.3.4, the Committee also provided advice on whether 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. The Committee sought assurance 
as to the review procedures performed by Management to support 
and provide assurance to the Board in making this statement. 
These include clear guidance issued to all contributors to ensure 
a consistent approach and a formal review process to ensure that 
the Annual Report and Accounts is factually correct and includes all 
relevant information. Following a review, the Committee advised the 
Board that appropriate procedures had been applied.
67
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITTEE
No major matters were raised in the annual evaluation of the 
Committee’s performance.
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS AND THE RISK 
MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of Internal 
Control and the Risk Management Framework, and during the year 
reviewed the effectiveness of a number of its internal control 
procedures. A number of detailed areas for improvement are 
identified and actions implemented as a result of the review of 
internal controls by Management and the Internal Audit function. 
To assist the Board, the Committee monitors the risk management 
processes and reports from Internal Audit. The Committee continues 
to monitor implementation of agreed improvements. 
The Group Risk Committee (GRC) meets on a quarterly basis to review 
the key risks facing the business. These are identified and assessed 
as to their likelihood and impact within the Group’s ‘Heat Risk Map’, and 
are then reviewed in conjunction with accompanying risk mitigation 
plans. The GRC minutes are circulated to the Audit Committee for 
review, with any matters of note highlighted and explained to the 
Committee by the GRC Chairman. This includes an analysis of how 
the exposure of the Group to these risks may have moved during the 
previous three-month period, how mitigations to the risks have been 
introduced or developed, and also provides an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the process in the view of the GRC.
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Committee continues to oversee the Internal Audit function and, 
in the second half of the year, a new Head of Internal Audit and Risk 
Management was appointed. The Committee received an update from 
the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management at each meeting 
during the year on current audit activities, and any associated 
issues resulting from the completion of their work. The Chairman 
of the Committee meets with the Head of Internal Audit and Risk 
Management on a number of occasions throughout the year, through 
which he is updated regularly on the activities of the Internal Audit 
function, and receives a frequent assessment as to whether the 
function is resourced adequately. The annual Internal Audit plan is 
approved by the Audit Committee and kept under review to reflect the 
changing needs of the business and to ensure that new and emerging 
business risks are appropriately considered within it. A core function 
of the Group Internal Audit Department relates to reviewing and 
providing assurance to the Committee regarding the effectiveness of 
controls over bid management and contract reporting.
WHISTLEBLOWING
The Committee directed that an exercise be undertaken to review the 
arrangements put in place by Management to ensure that staff are 
able, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties in 
financial and other matters. Following this exercise, the Committee 
received and approved a recommendation from the Group’s HR 
Director that this facility be outsourced to an appropriate external 
third party in light of the increasingly international nature of the 
Group’s business, and the language and time-zone challenges that 
this presents. The Committee is satisfied that, as at the date of 
this report, arrangements are in place for the proportionate and 
independent investigation of such matters, including appropriate 
follow-up action.
THE INTEGRITY OF THE GROUP’S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AUDITOR 
AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS
External audit
The Audit Committee is required to oversee the Group’s relationship 
with its Auditor, and to make recommendations in relation to the 
Board concerning the appointment, reappointment and remuneration 
of the Auditor.
Audit Quality Review Team 
In November 2015, the Company received a letter of comment 
from the Financial Reporting Council’s Audit Quality Review Team 
(AQRT), following its review of Ernst & Young LLP’s (E&Y) audit of our 
2014 Financial Statements. The areas highlighted by the AQRT were 
around the audit of impairment and of certain aspects of revenue 
recognition. In respect of the former, the Audit Committee concluded 
that our considerations in respect of the 2015 Financial Statements 
did not highlight any matters that undermined the position presented 
at 31 December 2014. In respect of the latter, the Audit Committee 
requested that KPMG LLP (KPMG), our new Auditor, carried out certain 
procedures relating to 2014, and enquired as to whether KPMG’s audit 
procedures also covered the findings of the AQRT in respect of E&Y’s 
audit of the 2014 Financial Statements. The results of the additional 
procedures and of our enquiries were satisfactory.
Reappointment of the Auditor
Following the results of a review of the effectiveness of the external 
Auditor, and further discussions amongst the Committee, we have 
recommended to the Board that it propose the reappointment of KPMG 
as the Group’s Auditor for approval by the Company’s shareholders 
at its 2016 AGM. KPMG was first appointed as the Group’s Auditor with 
effect from May 2015, following a competitive tender process. The 
Committee will continue to review the performance of KPMG as set out 
below on an annual basis.
Effectiveness of the external audit process
The Committee places great importance on ensuring a high quality, 
effective external audit process. When conducting the annual review, 
the Committee considers the performance of the Auditor as well as 
their independence, compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory 
and ethical standards and objectivity. 
 
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and quality of the external 
audit process in KPMG’s first year by:
•  reviewing the audit plan and monitoring changes in response to 
new issues or changing circumstances;
• receiving reports on the results of the audit work performed; and
•  considering the report of AQRT on KPMG. Responses provided by 
KPMG are reviewed by the Committee. 
The Committee will review further the effectiveness of the external 
audit process by means of a survey which is completed by key 
stakeholders and relevant internal management. The matters 
covered by the survey include the quality of delivery of the service 
and the KPMG employees that are delivering it, including their 
understanding of the business and its audit risks, their degree of 
scepticism and challenge, alongside their competency. The results of 
the questionnaire will then be discussed as a specific agenda item at 
the Committee meeting immediately following the completion of the 
questionnaire process, and any actions requested by the Committee 
to enhance effectiveness will be followed-up and appropriately 
monitored thereafter.
 
68
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Auditor independence
The Committee places considerable importance on ensuring the continuing independence of the Group’s Auditor. This topic is reviewed at least 
annually with the Auditor, who confirms their independence to the Committee twice a year.
In support of maintaining the Auditor’s independence, the Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope and extent of provision of 
non-audit services by the Group’s Auditor which is summarised on this page. During the year, the Committee monitored compliance with this policy 
monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the external Auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being 45.9 per cent of the KPMG overall audit fee 
during 2015, as set out below:
2015
£’000
Auditor’s remuneration:
Audit of the Financial Statements 43
Audit of subsidiaries 478
Total audit fees 521
Audit related assurance services 17
Taxation compliance services 44
Other assurance services 54
Taxation advisory services 124
Total non-audit services 239
Total fees 760
The Committee deemed appropriate to use the Group’s Auditor for this work due to their existing and detailed prior knowledge and understanding of 
the business, although the appropriateness of using KPMG for taxation work moving forward is under consideration, and will be considered further 
by the Committee in 2016. 
The Group has entered into a Datacenter Procurement Project with KPMG, to provide support in the building of a new Datacenter. The agreement 
involves the purchase of goods from, and supply of related services by Computacenter in the ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length 
basis, and the value of the contract is not material to either party. It is therefore a type of agreement permitted by Auditing Practices Board Ethical 
Standards between an audit firm and its audit client. The Committee further noted that KPMG had run a competitive tender process, identified 
Computacenter as the preferred supplier for the project and that the KPMG Audit team would not engage in any conversation with its Procurement 
and Technical Solutions Delivery Team regarding service delivery or the negotiations of contracts and pricing. The Committee also received a report 
from KPMG confirming that it had considered potential threats to its independence arising from this agreement, and had concluded that these 
could be managed by appropriate safeguards.
Non-audit services
Summary of policy for engagement of the Auditor to undertake non-audit work
The Auditor is appointed primarily to report on the annual and interim Financial Statements. The Committee places a high priority on ensuring that 
their independence and objectivity is not compromised. We have achieved this by considering Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 5 issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council. This relates to non-audit services provided to audited entities and sets out six principles which underpin objectivity 
and independence, for example that the Auditor cannot act as management nor audit their own work. The Committee recognises, however, that 
there are occasions when the Auditor is best placed to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in view of their knowledge of the 
Group’s business, confidentiality and cost considerations. The Committee has therefore established procedures to ensure that any non-audit work 
is only undertaken by the Auditor where there is no risk of compromise to their independence.
To this end, the Committee has defined formally areas of work for which the Auditor will be prohibited from engagement and areas where, subject to 
following the stipulated processes of authorisation and where appropriate, competitive tendering, the Auditor may be engaged. The former areas 
of work include the preparation of accounting records and Financial Statements which will ultimately be subject to audit. Currently, the latter areas 
of potential engagement may include acquisition due diligence and tax compliance and advice. In all cases significant non-audit engagements are 
subject to prior approval by the Audit Committee or if approval is required between meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Other than 
in exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not expect the value of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate value of audit and audit 
related services in any financial year.
Minnow Powell
Chairman of the Audit Committee
1 1 March 2016
69
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Greg Lock
Nomination Committee Chairman
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
The members of the Nomination Committee are the independent Non-
Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board. Further detail on 
the membership of the Committee and attendance at its meeting can 
be found directly above. However, input from all the Directors is sought 
by the Committee and it involves the Board when performing its key 
responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee. 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to assist 
the Board with:
•  the search and selection process for the appointment of both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Board, and ensuring 
that any such process is formal and transparent;
•  ensuring that the Board, and its Committees, have the right balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience to enable each to discharge its 
duties and responsibilities effectively;
•  review whether to recommend a Director for re-election at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting;
•  reviewing whether each Director has sufficient time to discharge 
his/her duty to the Company and its shareholders; 
•  succession planning for the Board and Senior Executives 
of the Group;
• reviewing the membership of its Committees.
The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are 
available on our website: www.computacenter.com/investors.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2015
The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 2015 and 
its work included the following:
Board appointments
There have been two Non-Executive appointments to the Board during 
the course of the reporting period. Minnow Powell was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015, and became Chairman 
of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 April 2015. The process 
relating to his appointment was set out for shareholders in the 2014 
report of the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee led the process to search for, identify 
and nominate a new Non-Executive Director in 2015. In advance of 
instructing an external search to be undertaken, the Committee 
considered the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board following 
the resignations of John Ormerod and Brian McBride during the first half 
of the year. The Committee then instructed the external search firm 
Russell Reynolds, which had no other connection with the Company 
other than providing this type of service. It was provided with a profile 
of the required candidate, following which a search was carried out to 
identify suitable individuals. These were then interviewed by both the 
Nomination Committee and by the remaining Board Directors.
As part of the selection process, the Committee considered whether 
each candidate would have sufficient time to devote to being a 
Non-Executive Director of the Company, given their other existing 
commitments. Prior to formally recommending to the Board that Philip 
Yea be appointed as the Senior Independent Director of the Company, 
the Committee considered and agreed that he would be independent 
in character and judgement, as defined under provision B1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Philip was also appointed as a member of 
the Company’s Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees with 
effect from 23 June 2015.
Election and re-election of Directors
The Committee reviewed in detail the performance of the Directors 
who are standing for election or re-election at the Company’s 2016 
AGM. The results of the Company’s most recent Board evaluation 
process were considered, alongside the contribution made by each 
individual, with the exercise being particularly rigorous in respect 
of Non-Executive Directors who have been in their role for six years 
or longer. Following this review, the Committee recommended that 
each Director on the Board as at 31 December 2015 be put forward for 
election or re-election by the Company’s shareholders at the 2016 AGM. 
Diversity 
The Committee, and additionally the Board, continues to recognise 
the benefits that diverse skills, experience and points of view can 
bring to an organisation, and how it may assist the decision-making 
ability of the Board, thereby increasing its effectiveness. Whilst the 
Board continues to recognise and monitor the continuing debate 
around possible future legislation in this area, appointments to the 
Board will continue to remain primarily based on merit, and it has not 
therefore set any measurable targets in this area. As at 31 December 
2015, the Computacenter Board had one female Non-Executive 
Director, Regine Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 per cent of the total 
Board membership.
Greg Lock
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
1 1 March 2016
Current Members Role
Attendance 
record
1.  Greg Lock 
(Chairman)
Non-Executive Chairman  
of the Board 3/3
2. Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 3/3
3. Minnow Powell Non-Executive Director 2/3
4. Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 1/1
Former Members Role
Attendance 
record
5. John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 1/1
6. Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 1/1
70
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Philip Yea
Remuneration Committee Chairman
It is my pleasure to present the first Directors’ Remuneration report 
since my appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 
June 2015. The report is split into three sections. This Annual Statement, 
and the Annual Report on Remuneration which includes information 
concerning the amount paid to the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors in 2015 as set out from pages 75 to 84, will be subject to an 
advisory vote by shareholders at the Company’s 2016 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). There are no changes proposed to the form of Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting in 2014. A summary of the approved policy has been 
included from pages 72 to 7 4 so that shareholders can refer to this 
easily when reviewing the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Approach of the Committee and Group performance 
The Committee has sought to remain consistent in its approach that 
the amount paid to the Executive Directors is clearly linked with their 
performance and the value that they have delivered to shareholders. 
Remuneration for the Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Group 
Finance Director (FD) continues to be heavily weighted towards 
variable pay that is itself principally based on the achievement of 
financial targets. The Performance Share Plan awards made to the 
Executive Directors in 2015 additionally reflect the view of the Board 
that continuing and measurable progress by the Group against its 
Services-led strategy will play an important role in facilitating continued 
improvement against its key financial performance indicators over 
the longer term. The Board also remains committed to retaining a 
remuneration framework which is simple, transparent and can be 
understood by all of the Group’s stakeholders.
During the reporting period, the business continued to generate 
growth in profitability, and returned approximately £98 million to its 
shareholders during the first quarter of the year. Progress continues 
to be made against each of the Group’s key financial and strategic 
key performance indicators, as is shown on pages 20 and 21. The level 
of in-year variable remuneration paid out to the Executive Directors 
reflects the strong financial and operational results that the Group has 
achieved, which included a substantially improved performance by 
our German subsidiary. However, the Committee believes that it also 
reflects the fact that, whilst there has been progress in France, there 
remains further work to ensure a sustained recovery by the business, 
and additionally that the performance of the UK Supply Chain business 
was below our expectations, especially over the second half of the year.
Remuneration outcomes for 2015
The base salaries of the Executive Directors had previously remained 
unchanged since 1 January 2012. Following the completion of a 
benchmarking exercise by the Committee, with input from the 
Company’s remuneration consultant, Mercer, it has been decided to 
increase the basic salary of the CEO and FD by 5.0 per cent and 4.6 per 
cent respectively. This will result in the salary of the CEO increasing from 
£500,000 to £525,000, and the FD’s salary increasing from £325,000 
to £340,000. Both increases are with effect from 1 January 2016. As 
outlined in the Company’s 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration, the 
Committee decided to increase the 2015 bonus opportunity for the 
Executive Directors on a one-off basis, following the divestment of RDC. 
The Committee has reviewed performance against the conditions set 
for the potential bonus opportunity in 2015. As a result, for the financial 
reporting period, 84.54 per cent of the total potential bonus was paid 
out to the CEO, whilst the FD received 88.28 per cent of his total potential 
bonus for the year. 
71.5 per cent of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
awards granted in March 2013, which are due to vest in March 2016, will 
be paid out to the Executive Directors. The financial conditions for the 
vesting of these awards relate to the Company’s growth in earnings 
per share for the three financial years ended 31 December 2015. 
Further details can be found on pages 77 and 78.
Remuneration in 2016 
At the Company’s 2015 AGM, shareholders voted in favour of extending 
the PSP , subject to minor changes, for a further ten-year period. The PSP 
has been the main vehicle for the grant of long-term share incentives 
to senior executives since 2005, and in the opinion of the Committee 
has been successful in achieving its intended objectives. In 2016, PSP 
awards will be granted to the Executive Directors under the terms 
of the scheme, as renewed. Further details on how our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy will be applied in practice for the 2016 financial 
year is set out on pages 83 and 84. 
Shareholder feedback 
During the year, the Committee was provided with general feedback 
from the Group’s major shareholders in respect of executive 
remuneration. I am intending to meet with the Company’s major 
shareholders following the release of this report, and prior to the 
Company’s 2016 AGM, and feedback from these meetings will be 
submitted to the Committee to inform its future decision-making. 
The Company will be submitting its Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
for approval by shareholders at its AGM in 2017 , in accordance with 
relevant regulatory requirements. In light of this, the Committee 
intends to undertake a consultation process with its major 
shareholders during the second half of this year in order to discuss 
potential changes, if any, to the policy. 
I welcome any comments that you may have on the contents of 
this report.
Philip Yea
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1 1 March 2016
ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE  
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholder,
71
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT COMPUTACENTER’S REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
The table included below sets out the main components of Computacenter’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the Company’s 
2014 Annual General Meeting, and has been in effect since that time. Prior to that date, the Company’s prior remuneration policy was applied. The 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy is available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s Registered Office Address, and will be 
provided to shareholders upon request.
Policy Table
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance targets
Fixed pay
Base salary
Supports the recruitment and 
retention of executives of the 
calibre required to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
Will reflect an individual’s responsibilities, performance, skills and experience.
Reviewed annually on 1 January taking into account the level of pay 
settlements across the Group, the performance of the business and general 
market conditions.
Salary levels at other organisations of a similar size, complexity and business 
orientation will be reviewed for guidance.
An exceptional review may take place to reflect a change in the scale or scope 
of a Director’s role, for example: a major acquisition.
Salary levels for the current Executive Directors for the 2016 financial year are:
Chief Executive Officer: £525,000
Finance Director: £340,000
n/a
Benefits
To provide a competitive level 
of employment benefits.
No special arrangements are generally made for Executive Directors. 
Benefits currently include a car benefit appropriate for the role performed, 
participation in the Group’s private health and long-term sickness schemes, 
life insurance and income continuance schemes, and participation in 
all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
All of the Group’s UK and German tax-resident employees are eligible to 
participate in the Company’s SAYE Scheme.
If new benefits are introduced for a wider employee group, the Executive 
Directors shall be entitled to participate.
If, in the opinion of the Committee, a Director must relocate to undertake and 
properly fulfil his/her executive duties, a one-off cash payment may be made 
to cover reasonable expenses.
While there is no maximum amount as the cost of benefits is dependent upon 
costs in the relevant market, benefits will be set at levels which are 
competitive, but not excessive.
n/a
Pension
To provide an income for 
retirement.
 
No special arrangements are made for Executive Directors. They are entitled 
to become members of the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme, 
which is open to all UK employees.
If the Executive Director so chooses, he/she may take the pension 
contribution as a cash alternative, which will be the same percentage of 
salary as the pension contribution foregone.
Pension contributions or allowances will not exceed 15 per cent of base salary.
n/a
72
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance targets
Performance related pay
Annual bonus
To incentivise the delivery of 
annual, short-term, stretching 
financial and non-financial 
objectives.
To align pay costs to 
affordability and the value 
delivered to shareholders.
The total sum due is paid in cash after completion of the relevant 
performance period.
The maximum annual bonus achievement will be 200 per cent of Base Salary.
The Committee has discretion to vary bonus payments downwards or 
upwards if it considers the outcome would not be a fair and complete 
reflection of the performance achieved by the Group and/or the Executive 
Director. To the extent that this discretion is exercised, this will be disclosed 
in the relevant Remuneration Committee report and may be the subject of 
shareholder consultation if deemed appropriate.
The current bonus opportunities in 2016 are 124 per cent of Base Salary for the 
CEO and 100 per cent of Base Salary for the FD. Increases above the current 
opportunities, up to the maximum limit may be made to take account of 
individual circumstances, which may include an increase in the size or scope 
of role or responsibility.
Financial measures will normally be 
used to calculate at least a majority 
of bonus achievement and the 
remainder of annual bonus will 
normally be attributed to non-
financial measures. 
Financial measures will normally 
include profitability, cost 
management, cash management 
and other appropriate measures. 
Non-financial targets will be 
stretching targets set by the 
Committee.
Targets are reviewed and approved 
annually by the Committee to ensure 
that they are stretching and 
adequately reflect the strategic aims 
of the Group.
PSP
To align the interests of 
Executive Directors and 
shareholders. 
To incentivise the achievement 
of longer-term profitability and 
returns to shareholders, and 
growth of earnings in a stable 
and sustainable manner.
An annual grant of shares, or options to acquire shares, will be made subject to 
performance criteria. Awards normally vest after a three-year period.
Details of the performance conditions applied to awards granted in the year 
under review and to be granted in the forthcoming year are set out on pages 
78 and 84. 
The Committee will review performance criteria in line with business priorities 
to ensure they are challenging and fair.
The maximum opportunity contained within the plan rules is:
Ordinarily 200 per cent of annual Base Salary or 400 per cent of annual Base 
Salary in exceptional circumstances. 
The Committee has discretion to vary the percentage of awards vesting 
downwards or upwards if it considers that the outcome would otherwise not 
be a fair and complete reflection of performance over the plan cycle.
Earnings per share is the primary 
measure for our PSPs, and the 
Committee may exercise its 
discretion to introduce additional 
or alternative measures.
In the event of serious misconduct 
of an Executive Director, or the 
misstatement of financial results, 
these awards may be subject to 
malus or clawback provisions at the 
discretion of the Committee.
73
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance targets
Other
Chairman and Non-Executive 
Director fees
To ensure that the Group is able 
to attract and retain 
experienced and skilled 
Non-Executive Directors.
Fee levels are determined with reference to those paid by other companies of 
similar size and complexity and taking into account the scope of responsibilities 
and the amount of time that is expected to be devoted during the year. 
No individual is involved in the process of setting his/her remuneration. 
Fee levels are normally reviewed bi-annually. They may also be increased 
on an ongoing or temporary basis to take into account changes in the working 
of the Board. 
The Chairman of the Board receives a fixed fee. Other Non-Executive Directors 
receive a basic fee and additional fees are payable for the Chairmanship of the 
Board Committees and for the additional responsibility of being the Senior 
Independent Director. 
Travel expenses and hotel costs are also paid where necessary. 
2016 fee levels for the incumbents are as follows:
Non-Executive Chairman: £195,000 
Non-Executive Director Base Fee: £50,000 
Supplementary Fee for Senior Independent Director: £6,000
Fee for:
Audit Committee Chair: £16,000 
Remuneration Committee Chair: £10,000
Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in any of the Group’s 
incentive arrangements or share 
schemes and are not eligible for 
pension or other benefits.
Share Ownership Guidelines
To strengthen alignment 
between Executives and 
shareholders.
Levels are set in relation to annual base salary, and are normally required to be 
built over a three-year period. The Committee retains discretion to extend this 
on an individual basis, if it believes that it is fair and reasonable to do so.
Options which have vested unconditionally, but are as yet unexercised, will be 
included on a net basis, for the purposes of calculating shareholdings, as will 
shares held by an Executive’s spouse or dependants. 
The Committee will regularly review the minimum shareholding guidelines.
There is no maximum, but minimum levels have been set at 200 per cent of 
Base Salary for the CEO and 100 per cent of Base Salary for other Executive 
Directors. Non-Executive Directors are not required to hold shares in the 
Company.
n/a
Statement of consideration of employment elsewhere in the Group and shareholder views
When setting executive remuneration, consideration is given to pay and employment conditions of employees of the Group and policies elsewhere 
in the Group. When it considers potential changes to Executive Director remuneration, the Committee is provided with comparative employee 
information, such as average salary reviews across the Group. The average annual salary increase of Computacenter Executive Directors in 2015 
was 0 per cent compared to a possible range of increases between 0 per cent and 4.5 per cent for other full-time employees. The salary of the CEO 
and FD remained unchanged between 1 January 2012 and end of the reporting period.
Whilst only Executive Directors and senior executives participate in the PSP plan, other full time employees in the UK and Germany can participate in 
the Group’s All Employee SAYE scheme. This plan is not subject to performance conditions, but requires the employee to remain employed at the end 
of the term of the scheme which they have joined. This plan has been extremely successful, and over the previous three-year period, the number of 
employees participating in the scheme has increased by 102 per cent. 
Whilst the Company does not feel it appropriate to consult directly with employees when drawing up the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the 
Committee has considered any informal feedback received via employee staff surveys or other channels and updates provided to it by the Group HR 
Director, Barry Hoffman.
The Remuneration Committee takes very seriously the view of shareholders when making any changes to executive remuneration arrangements. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy of the Company is due to be put before shareholders at its 2017 Annual General Meeting. As a result, the Company 
intends to undertake a consultation with shareholders during the second half of 2016 in order to seek feedback on the terms of the existing policy 
and any changes to it proposed by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Chairman of the Board and the Remuneration Committee have made themselves available to meet with the Company’s largest shareholders 
in March and April 2016, prior to the Company’s 2016 Annual General Meeting, to discuss both the contents of this report and the Group’s 2015 
performance. Feedback from these meetings will be provided back the Committee, so that it may be factored into the Committee’s decision-
making in 2016. 
74
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT
Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee
The key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to determine on behalf of the Board:
• the Company’s general policy on executive remuneration; and
• the specific remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and Senior Executives of the Group including, but 
not limited to, base salary, annual performance-related bonuses and long-term share incentive awards.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. All Directors are subject to the overriding 
principle that no person shall be involved in the process of determining his or her own remuneration. 
The full responsibilities of the Committee are contained within its terms of reference, which are available on our website at  
www.computacenter.com/investors.
Membership and attendance
The Remuneration Committee is made up of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board, who was considered to be 
independent on appointment. Details of the membership of the Committee and attendance of the members at Committee meetings during the 
year, is provided below.
Member Role Attendance record
Current Members
1. Philip Yea (Chairman) Senior Independent Director 2/2
2. Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 5/5
3. Minnow Powell Non-Executive Director 3/5
4. Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 5/5
Former Members
5. John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 2/3
6. Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 3/3
The CEO attends meetings by invitation, as does the Group’s HR Director and Group Head of Financial Reporting where financial information provided 
requires additional background or explanation to facilitate the considerations of the Committee. The Group Company Secretary is the secretary to 
the Committee.
The principal adviser to the Committee is Mercer Limited (Mercer), who was first selected by the Committee in 2010 by way of a tender process. 
During the year, Mercer provided advice to the Company in respect of the incentive awards made to the Executive Directors in 2015, a benchmarking 
exercise of fees paid for positions on the Company’s Board of Directors and its Committees, and the contents of the Directors’ Remuneration 
report as set out on pages 71 to 84. The total fees paid by the Company to Mercer in 2015 in respect of this advice was £27 ,500. The Committee 
considers the advice that it receives from Mercer to be independent considering, amongst other things, that Mercer provided no other services to 
the Company during the year other than those outlined above. Mercer is a founder member of the Remuneration Committee Group, and adheres 
to its code.
The Committee considers comparative practice in the European technology sector, FTSE techmark 100 companies and FTSE 250 companies. 
However, such market data is used by the Committee to inform, rather than drive, policy and decision making.
Audited information
The audited tables and related notes are identified within this report, using an A key. 
75
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 A 
Single Figure of Total Remuneration
The total amount paid by the Company to each of the Directors, in respect of the financial years ending 31 December 2015 and 2014, is set out in the 
table below:
Salary or fees
£’000
Benefits
£’000
Annual Bonus
£’000
PSP Awards
£’000
Pension
£’000
Total
£’000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Executive 
Mike Norris 500.0 500.0 51.2
5
51.6 803.2
7
451.0 1,384.5
6
478.7 25.0 25.0 2,763.9 1,506.3
Tony Conophy 325.0 325.0 16.5 16.5 551.7
7
227.0 787.4
6
263.9 4.1 16.2 1,684.7 848.6
Non-Executive
Greg Lock 170.0 170.0 – – – – – – – – 170.0 170.0
Philip Hulme 45.0 45.0 – – – – – – – – 45.0 45.0
Brian McBride
1
23.5 59.0 – – – – – – – – 23.5 59.0
Peter Ogden 45.0 45.0 – – – – – – – – 45.0 45.0
John Ormerod
2
16.1 59.0 – – – – – – – – 16.1 59.0
Minnow Powell
3
55.5 – 55.5 –
Regine Stachelhaus 45.0
8
45.0 – – – – – – – – 45.0 45.0
Philip Yea
4
30.8 – 30.8 –
Total (£’000) 1,255.9 1,248.0 67.7 68.1 1,354.9 678.0 2,171.9 742.6 29.1 41.2 4,879.5 2,777 .9
1.  Brian McBride stepped down from his role as Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman with effect from 18 May 2015.
2.  John Ormerod stepped down from his role as a Non-Executive Director of the Board and Audit Committee Chairman with effect from 1 April 2015.
3.  Minnow Powell was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2015, and as the Audit Committee Chairman with effect from 1 April 2015. 
4.  Philip Yea was appointed as the Senior Independent Director and the Remuneration Committee Chairman with effect from 23 June 2015. 
5.  Included within this benefits figure is the cost to the Company of providing a driver service for Mike Norris which he uses for business and personal use. 
6.   This relates to the 2013 LTIP awards, which will be paid out in March 2016, and had a performance period of 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015. The relevant performance criteria was 
partially achieved and therefore 71.5 per cent of this award vested in each of the Executive Directors. This calculation is based upon the value of a Computacenter plc share at the time of 
vesting, being £8.52 on 31 December 2015.
7.   A full explanation of the applicable performance measures for the 2015 bonus award can be found on page 77. 
8. Amount paid in Euros.
Remuneration paid in 2015: Executive Directors
2015 base salary
The annual salaries of the Executive Directors were unchanged in 2015. 
Executive Directors Annual Bonus
The maximum bonus opportunity in 2015 was 190 per cent of base salary for the CEO and 192.3 per cent of base salary for the FD. The 2015 
Standard Annual Bonus and 2015 Additional Annual Bonus, as referred to below, are each subject to clawback provisions for a period of two years 
from the date of vesting, in the event that the Group misstates its financial results for the reporting period or in the event of misconduct by the 
Executive Director.
2015 Standard Annual Bonus
This portion of the 2015 annual bonus opportunity is driven by the financial performance of the business and individual targets for each Director. 
For the year ended 31 December 2015, 80 per cent of this award was conditional on the achievement of criteria linked to the financial performance 
of the Group. These targets are set by the Committee with reference to the Group’s strategic and financial plans, as approved by the Board of 
Directors. Further detail on these can be found within the table on page 77 of this report. This approach is consistent with the Committee’s view 
that variable pay for the Executive Directors should be primarily linked to the transparent and measurable delivery of value to the Company’s 
shareholders. The non-financial Personal Objectives set for the Executive Directors are based principally on delivery against the Group’s strategic 
objectives and certain governance-related objectives, including people development and succession planning. As is reported in more detail in the 
Operating Performance Review from pages 30 to 38, the Group performed well in 2015, and this is reflected in the level of Standard Annual Bonus 
awards vesting in the Executive Directors.
76
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Standard Annual bonus criteria applied for each of the Executive Directors during 2015, were as follows:
Mike Norris – CEO  
(2015)
Tony Conophy – FD  
(2015)
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth
(up to 10%)
Cost savings  
(up to 10%)
Average cash balance
(up to 10%)
Personal objectives
(up to 20%)
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth
(up to 15%)
Average cash balance
(up to 15%)
Personal objectives
(up to 20%)
A 
The table below sets out details of performance against the FY 2015 Standard Annual Bonus Targets:
Measure
As a percentage of 
Maximum Bonus
Opportunity
Performance required
Actual %
achieved Payout (£) Threshold On-target Maximum
CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD
Financial criteria
Group Profit Before  
Tax (£m) 50% 50% 15% 15% 32.5% 32.5% 50% 50% 33.55% 33.55% 218,075 109,037 .5
Services Contribution 
Growth (£m) 15% 10% 7.5% 5% 15% 10% 15% 10% 14.86% 9.91% 96,590 32,207.5
Cash Balance (£m) 15% 10% 7.5% 5% 15% 10% 15% 10% 15% 10% 97,500 32,500
Cost Savings (£m) – 10% – 10% – 10% – 10% – 10% – 32,500
Non-Financial criteria
Personal Objectives 20% 20% 1% 1% 15% 15% 20% 20% 14% 14% 91,000 45,500
Total 100% 100% 31% 36% 77 .5% 77 .5% 100% 100% 77.41% 77.46% 503,165 251,745
The specific financial targets for the Standard Annual Bonus in 2015 are still considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive, although 
the Committee keeps this position under review and will disclose such targets as soon as they are deemed to no longer be so. As a result of this 
approach, the actual bonus targets for the 2014 full year are disclosed on page 79 of this report, and the Committee currently anticipates that the 
actual bonus targets for 2015 will be disclosed in the Group’s 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
2015 Additional Annual Bonus
As set out in the Company’s 2014 Directors’ Remuneration report, the Remuneration Committee decided to increase the 2015 bonus opportunity 
for the Executive Directors on a one-off basis, following the divestment of RDC by the Group and the significant value that this generated for 
shareholders. This one-off bonus opportunity equated to a maximum of £300,000 each for the CEO and FD, which represented 60 per cent of base 
salary for the CEO and 92.3 per cent of Base Salary for the FD. As part of the divestment of RDC, the Group entered into an Operating Agreement with 
RDC (under its new ownership), pursuant to which the Group had to meet targets relating to the ongoing business relationship between the parties, 
or make compensatory payments to the commercial counterparty to the extent that these were not achieved. The Group was required to achieve 
a minimum commercial services spend amount of £6.75 million with RDC during the first 12 months of the agreement. It has achieved this target 
and therefore this part of the performance criteria was fulfilled. Vesting of the 2015 Additional Annual Bonus was also subject to the satisfactory 
financial performance of the Group during the 2015 financial year. Following significant discussion, the Committee agreed that the performance of 
the Group in 2015 was in line with the Board’s expectations, which had themselves been increased at the time of the Group’s 2015 Interim Results. 
Therefore, the performance of the Group was deemed by the Committee to be satisfactory and the 2015 Additional Annual Bonus was paid out in full 
to each of the CEO and FD. 
LTIPs/PSPs
During the year, there was a pay-out of 71.5 per cent of those awards granted to the Executive Directors, pursuant to the 2013 PSP Scheme as the 
relevant performance criteria threshold was partially achieved. 
77
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Vesting of these awards to each Executive Director was dependent upon the achievement of the following performance measures over a three-
year period, as follows:
The compound annual growth rate of the Group’s adjusted fully diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’)
Performance level* Company EPS
Maximum (100 per cent vesting) 20%
In line with expectations (50 per cent vesting) 10%
Threshold (25 per cent vesting) 7.5%
*  Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis on between these thresholds. 
Actual Company EPS achievement during the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 was 14.3 per cent. Accordingly, 71.5 per cent of the PSP 
awards granted to the Executive Directors will be paid out in March 2016.
Remuneration awards granted in 2015: Executive Directors
A 
Share scheme interests awarded during the year
The table below details awards of conditional shares made during 2015 under the PSP scheme. The face value of the awards has been calculated 
based on the closing share price for the trading day immediately prior to the award date. The performance conditions for these awards are set out 
in more detail directly below. 
Scheme/Type 
of Award
Number of 
Shares
Face Value at 
time of grant
Performance
Conditions
Applied
Amount vesting related to  
Threshold of Performance
Performance
Period Set
Threshold
Performance
(% of face value)
Maximum
Performance
(% of face value)
Group CEO
PSP – nil 
cost option 138,889 £1,000,000
Compound growth of
 Company Earnings Per Share (70%) 10% 100%
3 financial years from 
1 January 2015
Compound Growth of  
Services Revenue (30%) 25% 100%
Group FD
PSP – nil 
cost option 78,993 £568,750
Compound growth of
 Company Earnings Per Share (70%) 10% 100%
3 financial years from 
1 January 2015
Compound Growth of 
Services Revenue (30%) 25% 100%
Note 1: In the event that Services Revenue growth performance is within or above the target range, but EPS growth is negative over the performance period set, no shares will vest. 
Note 2: This is based on the mid-market price share price of Computacenter plc on 25 March 2015, being £7.20.
Vesting of these awards to each Executive Director will be dependent upon the achievement of the following performance measures over a three-
year period, as follows:
The compound annual growth rate of the Group’s adjusted fully diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’)
Performance level
*
Company EPS
Maximum 12.5%
In line with expectations 8.33%
Threshold 5%
The compound annual growth rate of the Group’s Services Revenue (‘GSR’)
Performance level
*
GSR
Maximum 7.5%
In line with expectations 5.5%
Threshold 3.5%
*  Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis on between these thresholds. 
78
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Retrospective disclosure: 2014 actual annual bonus targets 
Set out below are the actual bonus targets set for the Executive Directors in respect of the 2014 financial year, which are no longer considered 
‘commercially sensitive’ by the Committee. 
A 
The table below sets out details of performance against the actual FY 2014 bonus targets:
Measure
As a percentage of 
Maximum Bonus
Opportunity
Performance required
Actual %
achieved Payout (£) Threshold On-target Maximum
CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD
Financial criteria
Group Profit Before  
Tax (£m)
50% 50%
£79.2 £88.0 £96.8 £86.9
£196,105 £98,052
Percentage Payout at 
Target 15% 15% 32.5% 32.5% 50% 50% 30.17% 30.17%
Services Contribution 
Growth (£m)
15% 10%
£192.6 £214.0 £214.0 £212.9
£94,900 £31,655
Percentage Payout at 
Target 7.5% 5% 15% 10% 15% 10% 14.6% 9.74%
Cash Balance (£m)
15% 10%
£41.6 £55.5 £55.5 £43.7
£56,030 £18,688
Percentage Payout at 
Target 7.5% 5% 15% 10% 15% 10% 8.62% 5.75%
Cost Savings (£m)
– 10%
– (£65.6) – (£65.6) – (£65.6) – (£66.2)
– £26,650
Percentage Payout at 
Target – 10% – 10% – 10% – 8.2%
**
Non-Financial criteria
Personal Objectives 
(out of 20) 20% 20% 1 1 15 15 20 20 16 16 £104,000 £52,000
Total 100% 100% 31% 36% 77 .5% 77 .5% 100% 100% 69.39% 69.86% £451,035 £227,045
* In respect of the Non-Financial Criteria for the CEO, these included Personal Objectives related to the following: 
 • Putting the French business in a solid position for future growth;
 • Generating Services sales momentum in Germany;
 • Implementing, to the satisfaction of the Committee, the Company’s strategy as approved by the Board;
 • Putting in place a formal diversity programme, and recognising the need for greater representation of women in management. 
* In respect of the Non-Financial Criteria for the FD, these included Personal Objectives related to the following: 
 • Supporting the continued roll out of Group-wide operating model;
 • Supporting the Group’s strategic initiatives through the provision of appropriate investment advice;
 • Improving the working capital management of the Group’s German and French business.
**  This outcome was as a result of discretion used by the Committee, given the overall financial performance of the Group during the year and in light of the proximity of actual achievement to 
the target for the relevant performance criteria.
79
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 A 
Executive Director Outstanding Share Awards as at 31 December 2015
Directors’ Interests in Share Plans (Audited) 
Scheme Note
Exercise/ 
share price
Exercise period/ 
Vesting period
At 
1 January 
2015
Granted 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year Lapsed
At 
31 December 
2015
Mike Norris Sharesave
*
1 320.0p 01/12/14-31/05/15 4,859 – 4,859 – –
Sharesave
*
1 524.0p 01/12/19-31/05/20 5,782 – – – 5,782
PSP 2 Nil 23/03/15-22/03/23 230,947 – 81,640 149,307 –
PSP 3 Nil 03/05/16-02/05/24 227,273 – – 227,273
PSP 4 Nil 20/03/17-19/03/25 146,520 – – – 146,520
PSP 5 Nil 20/03/18-19/03/26 – 138,889 – – 138,889
Tony Conophy Sharesave
*
1 343.0p 01/12/17-31/05/18 4,373 – – – 4,373
PSP 2 Nil 23/03/15-22/03/23 127,309 – 45,004 82,305 –
PSP 3 Nil 03/05/16-02/05/24 129,261 – – 129,261
PSP 4 Nil 20/03/17-19/03/25 83,333 – – – 83,333
PSP 5 Nil 20/03/18-19/03/26 – 78,993 – – 78,993
1.   Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme, which is available to employees and full-time Executive Directors of the Computacenter Group. Eligible employees 
can save between £5 and £500 a month to purchase options in shares in Computacenter plc at a price fixed at the beginning of the scheme term. There are no conditions relating to the 
performance of the Company for this scheme.
2.   Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS 
growth over the performance period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is between 7.5 per cent and 10 per 
cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 
20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
3.   Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS 
growth over the performance period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is between 7.5 per cent and 10 per 
cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 
20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
4.   Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS 
growth over the performance period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is between 7.5 per cent and 10 per 
cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 
20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
5.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011.
 (a)  In respect of 70 per cent of the total award: 10 per cent of this portion of the award will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 5 per cent per 
annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the performance period is between 5 per cent and 8.33 per cent, this portion of the award will vest on a straight-line basis up to 
one-half. This portion of the award will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 12.5 per cent per annum, with straight-line vesting between 50 per cent and 
100 per cent.
 (b)   In respect of 30 per cent of the total award: the award will start to vest if the compound annual Services growth rate over the performance period equals 3.5 per cent. If the compound 
annual Services growth rate over the performance period is 7.5 per cent, this portion of the award will vest in full. If the compound annual Services growth rate over the period is 
between 3.5 per cent and 7.5 per cent, then this portion of the award will vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
* The Sharesave scheme only requires that an employee remains employed by the Group at the end of the term of the scheme. There are no performance conditions attached.
Director gains
PSP
Director Date of vesting Scheme
Number of 
shares
Exercise  
price
Market value at 
exercise Gain made
Mike Norris 26/03/2015 PSP 81,640 Nil £7.017 £572,907
Tony Conophy 26/03/2015 PSP 45,004 Nil £7.017 £315,815
The closing market price of an ordinary share at 31 December 2015 (being the last trading day of 2015) was 852.0 pence.
The highest price during the year was 858.5 pence and the lowest was 586.4 pence.
Minimum shareholding requirements
In accordance with the Group’s minimum shareholding guidelines, the CEO is required to build up a shareholding that is equal to 200 per cent 
of his/her gross salary. In respect of the Finance Director, the threshold that is expected to be achieved is 100 per cent of his/her gross salary. 
It is additionally expected that the Executive Director will achieve these levels within three years of appointment. For the purposes of these 
requirements, options which have vested unconditionally, but are as yet unexercised, will be included on a net basis, for the purposes of calculating 
shareholdings, as will shares held by an Executive’s spouse or dependants. There is no requirement for the Non-Executive Directors of the Company 
to hold shares.
80
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED A 
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interest of each of the Directors in the shares of the Company, as at 31 December 2015, is as follows:
Current Directors
Number of shares in 
the Company as at 
31 December 2015
Percentage of 
requirement 
achieved
Interests In shares
SAYE PSP Total
Mike Norris 1,142,157 1,946
3
5,782
1
512,682
2
1,660,621
Tony Conophy 1,786,915 4,684
3
4,373
1
291,587
2
2,082,875
Greg Lock 500,000 n/a – – 500,000
Philip Hulme 11,067,582 n/a – – 11,067,582
Peter Ogden 27,994,474 n/a – – 27,994,474
Minnow Powell 1,340 n/a – – 1,340
Philip Yea 8,000 n/a – – 8,000
Regine Stachelhaus – n/a – – –
Note: There has been no grant of, or trading in, shares of the Company, between 1 January 2016 and 29 February 2016, given that the Company was in a close period during this time prior to the 
release of its 2015 Annual Results. 
1.  There are no conditions relating to the performance of the Company or individual for the vesting of this scheme.
2.  There are performance conditions for this scheme as set out below the table on page 80. 
3.  Based on the Company’s closing share price as at 31 December 2015, being £8.52.
Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the Computacenter Employee Benefit Trust (1,999,249 ordinary 
shares held as at 31 December 2015).
Dilution limits
Computacenter uses a mixture of both new issue and market purchase shares to satisfy the vesting of awards made under its Option, PSP and 
Sharesave plans. In line with best practice, the use of new or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under all share schemes, is restricted to 
10 per cent in any 10-year rolling period, with a further restriction for discretionary schemes of 5 per cent in the same period. The Company’s 
current position against its dilution limit is therefore under each of these thresholds. The Company regularly reviews its position against the 
dilution guidelines and, should there be insufficient headroom within which to grant new awards which could be satisfied by issuing new shares, 
it is the intention of the Company to continue its current practice of satisfying new awards with shares purchased on the market.
Payments to past Directors and Payments for loss of office
There have been no payments made to past Directors and no payments made for loss of office during the period.
Executive service contracts
A summary of the Executive Directors’ contracts of employment is given in the table below: 
Director Start Date Expiry Date Unexpired Term
Notice Period 
(months)
Mike Norris 23/04/1998 n/a None specified 12 
Tony Conophy 23/04/1998 n/a None specified 12 
All Executive Directors have a rolling 12-month service contract with the Company, which is subject to 12 months’ written notice by either the 
Company or the Director.
External appointments for Executive Directors
Executive Directors are permitted to hold outside directorships, subject to approval by the Chairman of the Board, and any such Executive Director 
is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services. During 2015, Mike Norris served as a Non-Executive Director of Triage Holdings Limited and 
received a fee of £16,000. 
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The Non-Executive Directors have not entered into service contracts with the Company. They each operate under a letter of appointment which 
sets out their terms, duties and responsibilities. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term, which runs to the conclusion of the third 
Annual General Meeting following their appointment, which may be renewed at that point for a further three-year term. The letters of appointment 
provide that should a Non-Executive Director not be re-elected at an AGM before he is due to retire, then his or her appointment will terminate. 
The Board has agreed that all Directors will be subject to re-election at the AGM on 19 May 2016, with the exception of Philip Yea, who will be subject 
to election for the first time at that meeting.
81
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered 
office. The appointments continue until the expiry dates set out below, unless terminated for cause or on the period of notice stated below:
Director
Date of latest letter of 
appointment Expiry Date Notice Period
Greg Lock 13 May 2014 13 May 2017 3 months
Philip Hulme 2 May 2013 2 May 2016 3 months
Peter Ogden 10 May 2013 10 May 2016 3 months
Minnow Powell 1 January 2015 1 January 2018 3 months
Philip Yea 23 June 2015 23 June 2018 3 months
Regine Stachelhaus 1 July 2013 1 July 2016 3 months
In 2016, the Chairman will be paid a single consolidated fee of £195,000. The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for 
Chairmanship of Board Committees. 
The annual rates of Non-Executive Directors’ fees are shown in the table below. There has been a rise in the base fee for Non-Executive Directors in 
2016, as a result of the findings of a benchmarking exercise by the Company’s Remuneration Consultants which was carried out by the Company at 
the end of 2015. These are generally reviewed every two years and, therefore, the next scheduled review will be in December 2017:
Position
2015 Annual 
Fees (£)
2016 Annual 
Fees (£)
Non-Executive Director 45,000 50,000
Additional fee for the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee 14,000 16,000
Additional fee for the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee 8,000 10,000
Additional fee for the position of Senior Independent Director 6,000 6,000
Performance of the Company
Total shareholder return performance 
(Computacenter versus FTSE Software and Computer Services sector)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Computacenter
FTSE All Share – Soware and Computer Services
Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015
In this graph, TSR performance shows the value, in December 2015, of £100 invested in the Company’s shares in December 2010, assuming that all 
dividends received between December 2010 and December 2015 were reinvested in the Company’s shares.
CEO pay history
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO over the previous seven financial years. The total remuneration figure includes the 
annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the pay-out for 
each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
CEO single figure of remuneration 1,407,034 1,910,675 1,878,675 1,085,300 937,300 1,506,300 2,763,900
Annual bonus pay-out (as % of maximum 
opportunity) 87% 98.5% 63.7% 26.8% 61.2% 69.39% 84.54%
Annual bonus 413,250 467,875 350,350 161,000 367,000 451,035 803,200
PSP vesting (as a % of maximum opportunity) 100% 100% 100% 58.5% 0% 35.34% 71.5%
PSP vesting 489,235 938,201 997,351 385,355 0 478,679 1,384,500
82
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Percentage change in remuneration of CEO and employees
The table below sets out the percentage change in the salary, benefits and annual bonus of the Group CEO compared to the average amount paid to 
Computacenter employees in the UK, between the year ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015.
Salary Benefits
Annual bonus 
potential
Group CEO 0% -0.8% 46.2%*
Computacenter UK-based employees 1.93% 4.05% 1.87%
The comparator Group of Computacenter UK based employees was chosen as the Committee believes it provides a sufficiently large comparator 
Group based on similar incentive structure to the CEO and reduces any distortion arising from currency and cost of living differences in other 
geographies in which the Group operates. 
*This includes the 2015 Additional Annual Bonus, as explained on page 77 .
Relative importance of spend on pay
The charts below show the relative expenditure of the Group on the pay of its employees, against certain other key financial indicators of the Group:
Expenditure on Group  
Employees’ Pay 
Group Adjusted Profit  
Before Tax
**
Shareholder Distributions  
( Ord i nary Dividend and Return of Capita l)
2015
2014
£543.1m +0.1%
£542.6m
2015
2014
£121.4m +389.5%
£24.8m
2015
2014
£86.9m +7.2%
£81.1m
**As well as information prescribed by current remuneration reporting regulations, Group adjusted profit before tax
1
 has also been included 
as this is deemed to be a key performance indicator of the Group which is linked to the delivery of value to our shareholders. The 2014 and 2015 
Group adjusted profit before tax
1
 measure both exclude the impact of the Group’s former subsidiary RDC, which was divested by the Group on 
2 February 2015.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year
Executive Director Remuneration for 2016 will be in accordance with the terms of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy table, as set out on pages 72 
to 74 of this report.
2016 base salaries
The base salary of the CEO is increasing by 5 per cent to £525,000, whilst the salary of the FD will go up by 4.6 per cent to £340,000.
2016 annual bonus scheme 
The performance measures and weightings for the 2016 Annual Bonus Scheme will be as follows:
Mike Norris – CEO  
(2016)
Tony Conophy – FD  
(2016)
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth
(up to 10%)
Cost savings  
(up to 10%)
Average cash balance
(up to 10%)
Personal objectives
(up to 20%)
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth
(up to 10%)
Cost savings  
(up to 10%)
Average cash balance
(up to 10%)
Personal objectives
(up to 20%)
The proposed levels for 2016 have been set to be challenging relative to our 2016 business plan. The targets themselves, as they relate to the 
2016 financial year, are deemed by the Committee to be commercially sensitive and therefore have not been disclosed. They will be disclosed at 
such time as the Committee no longer deems them to be so, and it currently anticipates including these in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report 
and Accounts.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in 2016 will be 124 per cent of base salary of the CEO, and up to 100 per cent of base 
salary for the FD.
83
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2016 PSP Scheme
The award levels of Performance Shares for the Executive Directors in the 2016 financial year are 200 per cent of salary for the CEO and 175 per cent 
of salary for the Finance Director. The 2016 financial year LTIP awards will be subject to the following performance conditions:
(a) In respect of 70 per cent of the total PSP award made to the Executive Directors in 2016:
Below Threshold
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
Vesting
(10% vesting)
On-target
(50% vesting)
Maximum
(100% vesting)
Compound Annual Growth of Company Earnings per Share < than 5% 5% 8.33% 12.5%
In respect of the growth of Earnings per Share, awards will vest on a straight line between these points. These targets will require management to 
deliver a strong, sustainable performance over the period.
(b)  In respect of 30 per cent of the total PSP award made to the Executive Directors in 2016, these will be subject to targets based on growth of 
the Group’s Services revenue over the three year performance period. These targets are currently deemed to be commercially sensitive, but in 
accordance with the Company’s approach in this area, these will be disclosed once they are no longer deemed to be so. The Committee currently 
anticipates that Services revenue targets for the 2016 PSP scheme will be disclosed in its 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. This achievement 
will be measured on a constant currency
2
 basis. 
Statement of voting at 2015 AGM
The results of voting on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the Company’s 2015 AGM are outlined in the table below: 
Votes cast in favour/discretionary Votes cast against Total votes cast Votes Withheld/abstentions
 97,049,512 79.1% 1,346,084 1.1% 98,395,596 80.2% 10,891,965 8.8%
The Committee is grateful for the continuing support of shareholders, and in order to ensure that this continues, the Committee will ensure that 
it consults with shareholders on major issues on which it feels it is appropriate to do so. It will also continue to adhere to its underlying principle of 
decision-making that Executive Director pay must be linked to performance and the sustainable delivery of value to our shareholders.
This Annual Remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Philip Yea
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
1 1 March 2016
84
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE 
ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of 
their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
• for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent 
Company Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to 
ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ Remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement 
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic report and Directors’ report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.
The Annual Report from pages 1 to 85 was approved by the Board of 
Directors and authorised for issue on 1 1 March 2016 and signed for on 
behalf of the Board by:
  
Mike Norris   Tony Conophy
Chief Executive Officer  Group Finance Director
1 1 March 2016
85
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT
1 Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified 
We have audited the Financial Statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 90 to 139.
In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
When planning our audit we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group Financial 
Statements initially without taking account of the effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group. As part of our audit planning procedures, we 
presented and discussed our initial assessment of key risks to the Audit Committee. This is shown in our risk map below and identified six key risks 
of material misstatement that were expected to have the greatest effect on our audit.
Throughout our audit we continually reassess the significance of each of these key risks. It was determined that the performance of the French 
business had improved sufficiently such that the risk of material impairment of accounts receivable or non-current assets, was no longer one of 
those having the greatest effect on our audit. Furthermore, following actual experience of executing the French Social Plan, it was considered that 
the risk that this provision was materially misstated was reduced such that this was also no longer one of those having the greatest effect on our 
audit.
We summarise below (i) the three key risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit (in decreasing order of audit 
significance), (ii) our key audit procedures to address those risks and (iii) our findings from those procedures in order that the Company’s members 
as a body may understand better the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion. Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the 
context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole and consequently are incidental to that 
opinion, and we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the Financial Statements. 
France - impairment of 
non-current assets
Magnitude of potential impact
Likelihood of occurrence Lower
Lower Higher
Higher
Signicant risk
Professional Services 
and Managed
Services contract 
accounting
France Social Plan
Presentation of 
exceptional and 
adjusted 
items/quality 
of earnings
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
France - impairment 
and bad debts
France Social Plan
France - impairment of 
non-current assets
France - impairment 
and bad debts
 
Downgraded risk from 
preliminary rating
Initially assessed as signicant risk – 
subsequently downgraded at year end
Supply Chain revenue 
recognition and cut o 
86
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC ‘ONLY’ Professional Services and Managed Services contract revenue (£990.5 million)
Refer to page 66 (Audit Committee report), page 96 (accounting policy) and page 103 (financial disclosures).
The risk – For a limited number of Managed and Professional Services contracts revenue is based on the contract price allocated to the stage of 
completion, by reference to the proportion of costs to date to forecast full costs. Due to the complex nature of the managed services which include 
both transition and transformation projects, there are risks that the costs of fulfilling the remaining service obligations could escalate. This 
uncertainty makes revenue recognition subjective. Furthermore, where cost forecasts are insufficiently certain, accounting standards limit the 
revenue; and where forecast costs exceed the balance of the contract price, provision for loss is required.
Our response – Our procedures included detailed reviews of contracts selected based upon risk indicators such as contract complexity, margin 
changes compared to the prior period, loss-making contracts and their relative magnitude of revenue or contribution recognised in the year. 
For these contracts we inspected the detailed terms to identify the service obligations. We considered contract progress by inspecting customer 
sign off on acceptance of the deliverables and costs of that progress in comparison to the Group’s original forecasts. This informed our view of 
contract risks. We then reviewed the future cost forecasts by reference to the Group’s forecasting record. This was completed through retrospective 
review of the accuracy of forecast revenue, costs and thus contribution for a sample of completed projects in the year. Future forecast costs 
including the risks and judgements within these forecasts were corroborated by obtaining evidence to support selected inputs. We also considered 
whether the stage of completion and degree of risk in each selected contracts was such that the revenue ought to be limited in accordance with 
accounting standards. We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional 
Services revenue.
Our findings – We found the resulting estimates of revenue to be mildly cautious, including after allowing for two audit differences that were each 
significantly below our materiality and which also offset each other to give no net effect on profit before tax. We found the Group’s disclosures to be 
proportionate in their description of the estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue.
Supply Chain revenue recognition and cut off (£2.1 billion)
Refer to page 66 (Audit Committee report), page 101 (accounting policy) and page 103 (financial disclosures).
The risk – Supply Chain revenue includes revenues from many different product groups each sold with varying terms and conditions that impact 
the point in time at which all delivery obligations, and therefore the transfer of the risks and reward of ownership, have been fulfilled/transferred, 
and hence revenue is recognised. Whilst there is little judgement required to identify the appropriate accounting policy for any individual contract, 
the number and variety of contracts give rise to some risk that an inappropriate policy is selected. A larger risk arises from the fact that a 
significant proportion of this revenue stream is delivered and recognised in the final month of the year, leading to significant scope for error 
in the application of the relevant principle.
Our response – We tested the controls that are designed to ensure that each Supply Chain revenue transaction is recognised in accordance with 
the Group accounting policies. A sample of transactions from before and after the year end were assessed for the application of the appropriate 
policy and agreed to supporting documentation, such as proof of delivery or signed buy and store agreements, in order to assess whether the 
policy had been correctly applied to recognise revenue in the current period or not as the case may be. We also tested a sample of credit notes 
raised subsequent to the year end and obtained the corresponding sales invoice and proof of delivery to assess whether Supply Chain revenue 
was recognised in the correct period.
Our findings – Our testing identified weaknesses in the design and operation of SAP user access controls. As a result we changed our procedures 
in order to test IT Application Controls in respect of the Supply Chain revenue process throughout the year. Our testing did not identify weaknesses 
in the operation of these controls that would have required us to expand the extent of our planned substantive audit procedures. In our tests of 
selection and application of polices to contracts, we found no errors. 
PRESENTATION OF UNDERLYING PROFIT AND CLASSIFICATION OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (£41.1 MILLION)
Refer to page 67 (Audit Committee report), page 96 (accounting policy) and page 108 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The Group’s measure of underlying profit, in the income statement and throughout the Annual Report, is stated before: (1) £1.5 million 
(charge) of redundancy and other restructuring costs (2014: £9.1 million (charge) ); (2) £0.4 million (credit) in respect of the improvement in 
contract margins on onerous contracts (2014: £1.5 million (credit) ); and (3) £42.2 million gain on disposal of RDC (2014: £nil). The Directors believe 
that the separate identification of exceptional items and the resultant presentation of alternative income statement measures can assist 
shareholders to obtain a more detailed and hence better understanding of the Group’s performance. However, when improperly used and 
presented, these kinds of measures might prevent the Annual Report from being fair, balanced and understandable by focusing on only part 
of the performance. The determination of whether an item should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or other adjustments requires 
judgement on its nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides clarity on the Group’s underlying trading performance.
Our response – Our procedures included evaluating appropriateness of the Group’s principles for identifying material or unusual items, by 
considering them against accounting standards for the separate identification of material items and the Financial Reporting Council’s guidance 
on the reporting of exceptional items. We then assessed the application of these principles by assessing whether the approach taken to identify 
exceptional items was consistent between gains and losses; assessing whether the same category of material items are treated consistently each 
year; assessing whether the tax effects of exceptional items are explained; by agreeing amounts incurred in the year to underlying documentation 
and supporting information; and by using our knowledge of the Group’s transactions gained throughout the audit to consider the completeness of 
exceptional items.
87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 We assessed the presentation of the underlying measure, in particular whether the separate disclosure and related commentary of ‘underlying’ 
profit throughout the Annual Report and Accounts placed disproportionate emphasis on that component of performance; whether the Adopted IFRS 
and ‘underlying’ financial information are reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation; whether the basis of the ‘underlying’ 
financial information is clearly and accurately described; and whether the ‘underlying’ financial information is not otherwise misleading.
Our findings – We found that the Group’s policies for exceptional items were balanced. We found that judgements of amounts falling within the 
policy were balanced. We found the presentation to be proportionate.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at £4.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit 
before taxation, normalised to exclude exceptional items defined on page 108 as presented separately in the Income Statement, of £41.1 million, 
of which it represents 4.7%. Our work on those separate items is described above.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £0.1 million, in addition to other identified 
misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s fifteen reporting components, we subjected three to audits for Group reporting purposes which are situated in the UK, France and 
Germany. For the remaining components we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement within these. The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of 
the Group’s results.
Revenue Total assets PBT Underlying PBT
Analysis at aggregated 
Group level 3.18%
Audits for Group reporting 
purposes 96.82%
Analysis at aggregated 
Group level 2.74%
Audits for Group reporting 
purposes 97 .26%
Analysis at aggregated 
Group level 2.40%
Audits for Group reporting 
purposes 97 .60%
Analysis at aggregated 
Group level 1.82%
Audits for Group reporting 
purposes 98.18%
The Group operates a Shared Service Centre (SSC) in Budapest, Hungary, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the three 
reporting components and therefore it is not a separate reporting component. Audit procedures were performed at the SSC which focus on the 
testing of trade receivables and trade payables transaction processing.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the 
information to be reported back. The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from £2.0 million to £3.0 million, 
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. The work on two of the three components was performed by 
component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the two overseas component locations in France and Germany in addition to the SSC in Hungary, including to assess 
the audit risk and strategy. At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
 
88
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC ‘ONLY’ CONTINUED 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Financial Statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors’ viability statement on pages 59 and 60, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors’ 
assessment and expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over the next three years; or 
• the disclosure on page 67 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement that they 
consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee report on page 66 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statements, set out on pages 59, 60 and 65, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 58 to 59 relating to the Company’s compliance with the eleven provisions of the 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement set out on page 85, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is 
provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
1 1 March 2016
89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenue 3 3,057,615 3,107,759
Cost of sales (2,654,468) (2,697,842)
Gross profit 403,147 409,917
Administrative expenses (315,380) (323,814)
Operating profit:
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 87,767 86,103
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,553) (1,868)
Exceptional items 5 (1,029) (7,588)
Operating profit 85,185 76,647
Exceptional gain on disposal of a subsidiary 5 42,155 –
Finance revenue 7 1,598 1,615
Finance costs 8 (2,171) (1,844)
Profit before tax 126,767 76,418
Income tax expense:
Before exceptional items (23,605) (21,115)
Exceptional items 5 (52) (185)
Income tax expense 9 (23,657) (21,300)
Profit for the year 103,110 55,118
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 103,110 55,117
Non-controlling interests – 1
Profit for the year 103,110 55,118
Earnings per share
– basic 10 83.9p 40.5p
– diluted 10 82.1p 40.0p
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
90 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year: 103,110 55,118 
Items that may be reclassified to consolidated income statement
Gain/(loss) arising on cash flow hedge, net of amount transferred to consolidated income statement 1,191 (251)
Income tax effect (244) 54 
947 (197)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (7,783) (10,976)
(6,836) (11,173)
Items not to be reclassified to consolidated income statement:
Remeasurement of defined benefit plan 24 (1,177)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (6,812) (12,350)
Total comprehensive income for the year 96,298 42,768
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 96,299 42,768
Non-controlling interests (1) – 
96,298 42,768
91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 57,132 79,940 
Investment property 13 10,260 –
Intangible assets 14 81,533 90,344 
Investment in associate 16a 40 42 
Deferred income tax asset 9d 12,840 15,049 
161,805 185,375 
Current assets
Inventories 17 45,647 50,006 
Trade and other receivables 18 621,756 695,915
Prepayments 44,735 52,688 
Accrued income 61,785 50,869 
Derivative financial instruments 25 2,220 2,434 
Current asset investments 15,000 –
Cash and short-term deposits 19 111,770 129,865 
902,913 981,777 
Total assets 1,064,718 1,167,152 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 581,855 635,279
Deferred income 93,861 106,862 
Financial liabilities 21 4,279 6,850 
Derivative financial instruments 25 922 389 
Income tax payable 10,981 9,810 
Provisions 24 4,050 9,808 
695,948 768,998
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 21 1,703 3,818 
Provisions 24 5,094 8,176
Deferred income tax liabilities 9d 523 748 
7,320 12,742
Total liabilities 703,268 781,740
Net assets 361,450 385,412
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 27 9,297 9,283 
Share premium 27 3,830 4,597 
Capital redemption reserve 27 74,957 74,957 
Own shares held 27 (10,571) (10,760)
Translation and hedging reserves 27 (11,161) (4,326)
Retained earnings 295,086 311,648
Shareholders’ equity 361,438 385,399
Non-controlling interests 12 13 
Total equity 361,450 385,412
Approved by the Board on 1 1 March 2016
  
MJ Norris    FA Conophy
Chief Executive Officer  Group Finance Director
92
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Total
£’000
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£’000
Total 
equity
£’000
Issued 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own
shares
held
£’000
Translation 
and 
hedging
reserves
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
At 1 January 2015 9,283 4,597 74,957 (10,760) (4,326) 311,648 385,399 13 385,412
Profit for the year – – – – – 103,110 103,110 – 103,110
Other comprehensive income – – – – (6,835) 24 (6,811) (1) (6,812)
Total comprehensive income – – – – (6,835) 103,134 96,299 (1) 96,298
Cost of share-based payments – – – – – 4,670 4,670 – 4,670
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – 1,659 1,659 – 1,659
Exercise of options – – – 9,967 – (4,635) 5,332 – 5,332
Return of Value (RoV) – – – – – (97,916) (97,916) – (97,916)
Expenses on RoV – (753) – – – – (753) – (753)
Issues of B shares relating to RoV 14 (14) – – – – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – – (9,778) – – (9,778) – (9,778)
Equity dividends – – – – – (23,474) (23,474) – (23,474)
At 31 December 2015 9,297 3,830 74,957 (10,571) (11,161) 295,086 361,438 12 361,450
At 1 January 2014 9,271 4,362 74,963 (11,976) 6,649 281,388 364,657 13 364,670
Profit for the year – – – – – 55,117 55,117 1 55,118
Other comprehensive income – – – – (10,975) (1,373) (12,350) (1) (12,351)
Total comprehensive income – – – – (10,975) 53,744 42,767 – 42,768
Prior period corrections 6 – (6) 695 – (695) – – –
Cost of share-based payments – – – – – 2,810 2,810 – 2,810
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – 39 39 – 39
Exercise of options 6 235 – 2,804 – (965) 2,080 – 2,080
Purchase of own shares – – – (2,283) – – (2,283) – (2,283)
Equity dividends – – – – – (24,673) (24,673) – (24,673)
At 31 December 2014 9,283 4,597 74,957 (10,760) (4,326) 311,648 385,399 13 385,412
93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Operating activities
Profit before tax 126,767 76,418
Net finance costs 573 229
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 18,885 20,398
Depreciation of investment property 13 227 –
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 13,311 12,675
Share-based payments 4,670 2,810
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 388 676
Loss on disposal of intangibles 9 1
Exceptional gain from disposal of a subsidiary (42,155) –
Net cash flow from inventories (4,530) 5,834
Net cash flow from trade and other receivables 46,023 (51,167)
Net cash flow from trade and other payables (43,073) 50,275
Net cash flow from provisions (8,009) (1,851)
Other adjustments (137) (473)
Cash generated from operations 112,949 115,825
Income taxes paid (18,611) (21,408)
Net cash flow from operating activities 94,338 94,417
Investing activities
Interest received 1,598 1,615
Increase in current asset investments (15,000) –
Proceeds from disposal of a subsidiary, net of cash disposed of 56,145 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 16b – (465)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 653 44
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 12 (13,303) (12,189)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets – 1
Purchases of intangible assets 14 (7,294) (5,494)
Net cash flow from investing activities 22,799 (16,488)
Financing activities
Interest paid (2,171) (1,275)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the parent 11 (23,474) (24,673)
Return of Value (97,916) –
Expenses on Return of Value (753) –
Proceeds from share issues 5,332 1,791
Purchase of own shares (9,778) (2,283)
Repayment of capital element of finance leases (3,223) (4,983)
Repayment of loans (1,713) (7,767)
New borrowings 1,030 3,908
Net cash flow from financing activities (132,666) (35,282)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (15,529) 42,647
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (1,937) (3,835)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 19 129,146 90,334
Cash and cash equivalents at the year end 19 111,680 129,146
94
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 1 AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS
The consolidated Financial Statements of Computacenter plc (Parent Company) for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 1 1 March 2016. The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJ Norris and FA Conophy. 
Computacenter plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly traded.
The Group’s Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (IFRS) as they apply to the Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 and applied in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (£) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£’000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year. 
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using existing GAAP in each country of 
operation. Adjustments are made on consolidation for differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the Group no 
longer retains control.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented 
separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders’ equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows:
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year. Adoption of these standards did not have any 
effect on the financial performance or position of the Group. They may however give rise to additional disclosures. The other pronouncements 
which came into force during the year were not relevant to the Group:
IFRIC 21 – Levies
Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle
Endorsed (9 January 2015) – EU effective date 1 February 2015
This cycle of improvements contains amendments to:
• IFRS 2 Share-based payment – definition of ‘vesting condition’;
• IFRS 8 Operating segments – disclosures on the aggregation of operating segments;
• IFRS 13 Fair value measurement – measurement of short-term receivables and payables;
• IAS 24 Related party disclosures – definition of ‘related party’.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2011-2013 Cycle
Endorsed (18 December 2014)
This cycle of improvements contains amendments to:
• IFRS 13 Fair value measurement – scope of portfolio exception;
• IAS 40 Investment property – inter-relationship of IFRS 3 and IAS 40.
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied
The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have not been applied in 
preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in years beginning after 31 December 2015.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2017
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments relating to Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
IAS 27 Amendments relating to Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements.
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments relating to Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture.
IFRS 1 1 Amendments relating to Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (IFRS 15).
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2019
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge 
accounting and derecognition.
95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Management’s assessment of the impact and accepted best practice is ongoing. Certain of these standards and interpretations will, when adopted, 
require addition to or amendment of disclosures in the accounts. With the exception of IFRS 15, it is not anticipated that the adoption of these 
standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s accounts. Management is currently assessing the implication of IFRS 15 on 
the Group Financial Statements but has not yet formed a conclusion.
Critical judgements and estimates
The preparation of Financial Statements requires Management to exercise judgement in applying the Group’s accounting policies. It also requires 
the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Due to the inherent uncertainty 
in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
Critical Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised 
and in any future years affected. The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and other non-current assets
Determining whether goodwill, intangible assets and other non-current assets are impaired requires an estimation of their recoverable amount which is 
the higher of either the value in use to the cash-generating units (CGU) to which these assets belong or the fair value less costs of disposal. The value in use 
calculation requires appropriate forecasts of future cash flows expected to arise for the CGU and the selection of suitable discount rates and future growth 
rates. The Group reviews impairment of these assets at least on an annual basis, or more frequently if there is an indicator of impairment.
Further detail on the impairment testing of intangible assets, goodwill and non-current assets is disclosed in note 15.
Provisions
Provisions are established by the Group based on Management’s assessment of relevant information and advice available at the time of preparing 
the Financial Statements. Outcomes are uncertain and dependent on future events. Where outcomes differ from Management’s expectations, 
differences from the amount initially provided will impact the income statement in the year the outcome is determined.
As disclosed in note 24, the Group’s provisions principally relate to obligations arising from onerous lease property provisions, customer contract 
provisions, restructuring provisions and retirement benefit obligations. Further details of specific estimates used in arriving at these provisions 
are provided in the note.
Providing for doubtful debts
The Group provides services and equipment to business and public sector customers, mainly on credit terms. Management know that certain debts 
due to us will not be paid through the default of a small number of our customers. Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in 
determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected. These estimates include such factors as the current state of the economy, 
particular industry issues and the individual credit risk assessed against each customer. Refer to note 25 for further details on credit risk.
The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 18.
Taxation
In arriving at the current and deferred tax liability the Group has taken account of tax issues that are subject to ongoing discussions with the 
relevant tax authorities. Liabilities have been calculated based on Management’s assessment of relevant information and advice. Where outcomes 
differ from the amounts initially recorded, such differences impact current and deferred tax amounts in the year the outcome is determined.
Further details on the deferred tax balances held at 31 December 2015 are disclosed in note 9d.
Revenue recognition
For a limited number of Services contracts, an estimate of the total contract costs and total contract revenues is required to determine the stage 
of completion.
The Group accounts for these contracts using the percentage-of-completion (units of work) method, recognising revenue and direct costs as 
performance on the contract progresses through the recorded utilisation of our services. This method places considerable importance on 
accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract and may involve estimates on the scope of services required for 
fulfilling the contractually defined obligations. These significant estimates include total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, 
including technical risks, and other judgements. Under the percentage-of-completion method, changes in estimates may lead to an increase or 
decrease in revenue recognised at a point in time.
When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that expenses incurred are eligible to be 
recovered. No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration.
Critical Judgements
Judgements made by Management in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the Financial Statements:
Exceptional items
Management is required to exercise its judgement in the classification of certain items as exceptional and outside of the Group’s adjusted results.
96
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the 
nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements 
of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior years and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Management have considered the materiality, infrequency and nature of the French Social Plan against the requirements and guidance provided by 
IAS 1, our Group accounting policies and recent press releases from the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). Management judged that classifying the 
scale and transformative nature of the restructuring programme in France and the subsequent expense related to the French Social Plan as an 
exceptional item in the income statement provides the best guidance as to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the 
results of the Group in accordance with the policy above.
During 2015 the reversal of the unutilised portion of the onerous Services contracts provision was classified as an exceptional item as the original 
expense relating to the provision was classified as such in 2013.
Asset held for sale
At the time of approving the 2014 year-end Annual Report and Accounts, Management made a judgement in deciding that the sale of its subsidiary, 
RDC, should not be accounted for as an asset held for sale under the Group’s relevant accounting policy disclosed later in this note. Management 
considered the timeline of events from the unsolicited enquiry from the purchaser near the end of the reporting year through to the rapid 
conclusion of the sale process on 2 February 2015, amongst other factors, when making the judgement.
Management had neither a programme for the disposal of the asset or a plan to market RDC for sale to any other party during 2014 or 2015. The sale 
process began following the purchaser’s opportunistic approach in late 2014.
Management did not consider the sale of RDC probable at the end of 2014 reporting year, based on the stage of discussions with the purchaser.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold buildings 25-50 years
Short leasehold improvements shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease
Fixtures and fittings
– Head office 5-15 years
– Other shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease
Office machinery, computer hardware 2-15 years
Motor vehicles 3 years
Freehold land is not depreciated. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are 
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease 
payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating lease 
payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Investment property
Investment property is defined as land and/or buildings held by the Group to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for 
sale in the ordinary course of business or for use in the supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. The Group recognises any part 
of an owned (or leased under a finance lease) property that is leased to third-parties as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant 
portion of the property. 
Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group elects to measure 
investment property at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any (i.e., applying the same accounting policies 
(including useful lives) as for property, plant and equipment). The fair values, which reflect the market conditions as at the balance sheet date, are 
disclosed in note 13.
Intangible assets
Software and software licences
Software and software licences include computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware. These assets are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value. Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the 
asset. Currently software is amortised over four years.
97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
The carrying values of software and software licences are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the 
assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Software under development
Costs that are incurred and that can be specifically attributed to the development phase of management information systems for internal use are 
capitalised and amortised over their useful life, once the asset becomes available for use.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are carried initially at fair value. Following initial recognition intangible assets are 
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value. Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows:
Existing customer contracts 5 years
Existing customer relationships 10 years
Tools and technology 7 years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.
Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 (Revised) using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as 
goodwill and is not amortised. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment 
at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related CGU monitored by Management, usually at business segment level or 
statutory company level as the case may be. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including 
goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. Where an asset does not have 
independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is assessed for the CGU to which it belongs. Certain other corporate assets are unable to be 
allocated against specific CGUs. These assets are tested across an aggregation of CGUs that utilise the asset. The recoverable amount is the higher 
of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the asset or CGU. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent 
with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised 
impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the assets or CGU’s recoverable 
amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the last impairment was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed 
its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. As the Group has no assets carried at revalued amounts, such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Investment in associates
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint 
ventures, are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s 
share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. The Group’s income 
statement reflects the share of the associate’s results after tax. Where there has been a change recognised in the other comprehensive income 
of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any such change in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Inventories
Inventories are carried at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving 
items. Costs include those incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
98
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised at their fair value which initially equates to the consideration given plus directly attributable transaction costs 
associated with the investment.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described in each category below:
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day credit terms, are recognised and carried at their original invoice amount less an allowance for 
any uncollectable amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Balances are written 
off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Current asset investments
Current asset investments comprise deposits held for a term of greater than three months from the date of deposit and which are not available to 
the Group on demand. Subsequent to initial measurement, current asset investments are measured at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net 
of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs. 
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as described in each category below:
Interest-bearing borrowings
All borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense 
when incurred.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised 
cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
 
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where:
• the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
• the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to 
a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; or
• the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expired.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations affecting 
cash flows from forecasted transactions and unrecognised firm commitments.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply 
hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes identification of the 
hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of 
changes in the hedging instrument’s fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to 
the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in cash flows and are addressed on an ongoing 
basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting years for which they are designated.
Forward contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value 
at each reporting date. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. Forward contracts are recorded as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is 
either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign 
currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.
Cash flow hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement in administrative expenses.
99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Amounts recognised within other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement, within administrative expenses, when the 
hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the hedged financial expense is recognised.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is 
transferred to the income statement within administrative expenses. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without 
replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised within other comprehensive 
income remains within other comprehensive income until after the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects the income statement.
Any other gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on forward contracts are taken directly to administrative expenses in the income statement.
Foreign currency translation
The Group’s presentation currency is Pounds Sterling (£). Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the 
Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the 
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of 
initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the material overseas subsidiaries are Euro (€), US Dollar (US$), South African Rand (ZAR) and Swiss Franc (CHF). As at 
the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date and their Income Statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange 
differences arising on the retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. On disposal of a foreign entity, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to that particular foreign operation is 
recognised in the income statement.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is 
used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Customer contract provisions
Managed Services revenue includes revenue from Support Services and Managed Services contracts.
On a limited number of these contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by reference to the costs 
incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract.
If the performance of one of these limited number of contracts results in a margin that was less than anticipated at the time that it was agreed 
then the future financial performance of that contract will be reviewed in detail. If, after further financial analysis, the full financial consequence of 
the contract can be reliably estimated, and it is determined that the contract is potentially loss-making, then the best estimate of the losses 
expected to be incurred until the end of the contract will be provided for.
The Group has elected to apply IAS 1 1 in its assessment of whether contracts are considered onerous and in subsequently estimating the provision 
as IAS 18 considers the requirements of IAS 1 1 are generally applicable to the recognition of revenue and the associated expenses for a transaction 
involving the rendering of services.
A contract that is accounted for under IAS 1 1 that is considered potentially onerous is assessed according to the recognition of expected losses in 
IAS 1 1 ahead of the onerous contract guidance in IAS 37 and considers total estimated costs (i.e. directly attributable variable costs and fixed 
allocated costs) as included in the assessment of whether the contract is onerous or not and in the measurement of the provision.
Restructuring provisions
The Group recognises a ‘restructuring’ provision when there is a programme planned and controlled by Management that materially changes the 
scope of the business or the manner in which it is conducted.
Further to the Group’s general provision recognition policy, a restructuring provision is only considered when the Group has a detailed formal plan 
for the restructuring identifying, as a minimum, the business or part of the business concerned; the principal locations affected; the location, 
function and approximate number of employees who will be compensated for terminating their services; the expenditures that will be undertaken 
and when the plan will be implemented.
The Group will only recognise a specific restructuring provision once a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by 
starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
100
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The Group only includes incremental costs associated directly with the restructuring within the restructuring provisions such as employee 
termination benefits and consulting fees. The Group specifically excludes from recognition in a restructuring provision any costs associated with 
ongoing activities such as the costs of training or relocating staff that are redeployed within the business rather than retrenched and costs for 
employees who continue to be employed in ongoing operations, regardless of the status of these operations post-restructure.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme available to all UK employees. Contributions are recognised as an expense in the income 
statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme. There are no material pension schemes within the Group’s 
overseas operations.
The Group has an obligation to make a one-off payment to French employees upon retirement, the Indemnités de Fin de Carrière (IFC).
French employment law requires that a company pays employees a one-time contribution when (and only when) the employee leaves the 
Company for retirement at the mandatory age. This is a legal requirement for all businesses who incur the obligation upon departure, due to 
retirement, of an employee.
Typically the retirement benefit is based on length of service of the employee and his or her salary at retirement. The amount is set via a legal 
minimum but the retirement premiums can be improved by the collective agreement or employment contract in some cases. In Computacenter 
France, the payment is based on accrued service and ranges from 1 month of salary after 5 years service to 9.4 months of salary after
47 years of service.
If the employee leaves voluntarily at any point before retirement, all liability is extinguished and any accrued service is not transferred to any 
new employment.
Management continues to account for this obligation according to IAS 19 (revised). Due to the materiality of the obligation, Management considers 
no further disclosures are relevant at this time.
 
Taxation
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax 
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the Financial Statements, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
• deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available in the future against 
which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses, can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to the 
statement of comprehensive income. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except:
• where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the relevant taxation authority, in which case the 
sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
• trade receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authorities are included as part of receivables or payables in the balance 
sheet.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts and rebates given to customers, VAT and 
other sales tax or duty. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Supply Chain
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on dispatch of goods.
101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Professional Services
Revenue is recognised under a contract following delivery of a service or with reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated 
costs of the contract. Unbilled revenue is recognised within accrued income. If the total estimated costs and revenues of a contract cannot be 
reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred. A provision is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
Managed Services
Managed Services revenue is recognised over the term of the contract as services are delivered. Unearned Managed Services revenue is included 
within deferred income in the balance sheet. Amounts invoiced relating to more than one year are deferred and recognised over the relevant 
period. Where a contract contains several elements, the individual elements are accounted for separately where appropriate and revenue thereon 
is measured at the fair value of the consideration received. The related costs are recognised as they are incurred. However, a portion of costs 
incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing contracts (transition and/or transformation costs) may be deferred when they are specific to a given 
contract and/or will generate future economic benefits, and are recoverable. These costs are allocated to work-in-progress and any reimbursement 
by the client is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred. 
On a limited number of Managed Services contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by reference to 
the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract. Unbilled revenue is recognised within accrued income. If a contract 
cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is restricted to the extent that it is probable that costs incurred will be recoverable.
Bid and set-up costs
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and is frequently involved in contract bids with multiple competitors with the outcome 
usually unknown until the contract is awarded and signed.
Any bid costs incurred by the Group’s Central Bid Management Engines are not capitalised or charged to the contract, but instead directly charged 
to selling, general and administrative expenses as they are incurred. These costs associated with bids are not separately identifiable nor can they 
be measured reliably as the Group’s internal bid teams work across multiple bids at any one time. Further, it cannot be assessed as probable that 
the contract will be obtained until the tender process has completed and the contract has been awarded.
Finance income
Income is recognised as interest accrues.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right to receive payment is established.
Operating lease income
Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Exceptional items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the 
nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better 
elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior years and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payment transactions
Employees (including Executive Directors) of the Group can receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby 
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the award at the date at which they are 
granted. The fair value is determined by utilising an appropriate valuation model, further details of which are given in note 28. In valuing equity-
settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions as none of the conditions set are market-related ones.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance 
and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (‘vesting date’). 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the Directors’ best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Income Statement 
charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period. As the 
schemes do not include any market related performance conditions, no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share (see note 10).
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives and senior employees. Shares in the Group held 
by the employee share trust are treated as investment in own shares and are recorded at cost as a deduction from equity (see note 27).
Own shares held
Computacenter plc shares held by the Group are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘own shares held’ and are recognised at cost. Consideration 
received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken 
to reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
102
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Fair value measurement
The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed, are summarised in note 25.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets held for sale
Non-current assets are classified separately as held for sale in the Balance Sheet when their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is met only when:
• the sale is highly probable;
• the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition;
• Management have an approved programme to market and sell the asset or an approved plan for disposal; and
• Management is committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date 
of classification.
Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale and expected to be included as part of the sale transaction are 
correspondingly also classified separately. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not subject to 
depreciation or amortisation. The net assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying 
amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is considered to be a component of the Group that has either been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale, which 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate 
line of business or geographical area of operations.
Adjusted measures
The Group uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (non-GAAP) financial measures in addition to those reported in 
accordance with IFRS. The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, are important when assessing the underlying financial 
and operating performance of the Group.
Adjusted revenue, adjusted Services revenue, adjusted Professional Services revenue, adjusted Supply Chain revenue, and adjusted administrative 
expenses excludes the revenue and administrative expenses from a disposed subsidiary, RDC, for both the current year and the comparative 
reporting year. RDC was sold on 2 February 2015.
Adjusted operating profit or loss, adjusted profit or loss before tax, adjusted profit or loss for the year, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted 
diluted earnings per share are, as appropriate, each stated before: exceptional and other adjusting items including gain or loss on business 
disposals, amortisation of acquired intangibles, utilisation of deferred tax assets (where initial recognition was as an exceptional item or a fair 
value adjustment on acquisition), and the related tax effect of these exceptional and other adjusting items, as Management do not consider these 
items when reviewing the underlying performance of the segment or the Group as a whole. Each of these measures also excludes the results of RDC 
for both the current and comparative periods.
Additionally, adjusted operating profit or loss includes the interest paid on customer-specific financing (CSF) which Management considers to be a 
cost of sale.
A reconciliation between key adjusted and statutory measures is provided on page 40 of the Group Finance Director’s review. Further detail is also 
provided within note 3, segment information.
103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 3 SEGMENT INFORMATION
For Management purposes, the Group is organised into geographical segments, with each segment determined by the location of the Group’s 
assets and operations. The Group’s business in each geography is managed separately and held in separate statutory entities.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the below reportable operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its geographical segments separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource 
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on adjusted operating profit or loss which is measured 
differently from statutory operating profit or loss in the consolidated Financial Statements as defined above.
Segmental performance for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 was as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2015
UK
£’000
Germany
£’000
France
£’000
Belgium
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue
Adjusted Supply Chain revenue 875,041 820,196 335,024 33,686 2,063,947
Adjusted Services revenue
Adjusted Professional Services revenue 137,390 107,416 16,101 1,645 262,552
Managed Services revenue 394,943 272,006 46,934 13,785 727,668
Total adjusted Services revenue 532,333 379,422 63,035 15,430 990,220
Total adjusted revenue 1,407,374 1,199,618 398,059 49,116 3,054,167
RDC
Supply Chain revenue 3,158 – – – 3,158
Professional Services revenue 290 – – – 290
Total RDC revenue 3,448 – – – 3,448
Statutory revenue 1,410,822 1,199,618 398,059 49,116 3,057,615
Results
Adjusted gross profit 216,445 147,346 32,083 6,258 402,132
Adjusted administrative expenses (157,110) (119,937) (33,715) (4,263) (315,025)
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 59,335 27,409 (1,632) 1,995 87,107
Adjusted net interest 601 (577) (178) (79) (233)
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 59,936 26,832 (1,810) 1,916 86,874
Exceptional items:
– onerous contracts trading losses – (1,123) – – (1,123)
– onerous contracts provision for future losses – 1,559 – – 1,559
– exceptional losses on redundancy and other restructuring costs – – (1,465) – (1,465)
Total exceptional items – 436 (1,465) – (1,029)
Exceptional gain on disposal of a subsidiary 42,155 – – – 42,155
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (361) (1,116) – (76) (1,553)
RDC 320 – – – 320
Statutory profit/(loss) before tax 102,050 26,152 (3,275) 1,840 126,767
104
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The reconciliation for adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows:
UK
£’000
Germany
£’000
France
£’000
Belgium
£’000
Total
£’000
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 59,335 27,409 (1,632) 1,995 87,107
Add back interest on CSF 56 284 – – 340
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (361) (1,116) – (76) (1,553)
Exceptional items – 436 (1,465) – (1,029)
RDC 320 – – – 320
Statutory operating profit/(loss) 59,350 27,013 (3,097) 1,919 85,185
Other segment information
Property, plant and equipment 34,037 14,286 7,210 1,599 57,132
Investment property 10,260 – – – 10,260
Intangible assets 63,173 16,520 56 1,784 81,533
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 5,904 5,224 1,307 868 13,303
Software 6,052 1,186 50 6 7,294
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10,667 6,121 1,687 410 18,885
Depreciation of investment property 227 – – – 227
Amortisation of software 11,059 635 59 5 11,758
Share-based payments 4,095 542 33 – 4,670
105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 3 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
Year ended 31 December 2014
UK
£’000
Germany
£’000
France
£’000
Belgium
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue
Adjusted Supply Chain revenue 878,145 774,913 393,406 34,580 2,081,044
Adjusted Services revenue
Adjusted Professional Services revenue 125,610 108,950 19,752 2,113 256,425
Managed Services revenue 368,663 283,203 57,957 15,979 725,802
Total adjusted Services revenue 494,273 392,153 77,709 18,092 982,227
Total adjusted revenue 1,372,418 1,167,066 471,115 52,672 3,063,271
RDC
Supply Chain revenue 41,197 – – – 41,197
Professional Services revenue 3,291 – – – 3,291
Total RDC revenue 44,488 – – – 44,488
Statutory revenue 1,416,906 1,167,066 471,115 52,672 3,107,759
Results
Adjusted gross profit 209,555 151,682 31,757 6,120 399,114
Adjusted administrative expenses (148,827) (124,906) (40,592) (4,057) (318,382)
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 60,728 26,776 (8,835) 2,063 80,732
Adjusted net interest 929 452 (929) (125) 327
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 61,657 27,228 (9,764) 1,938 81,059
Exceptional items:
– onerous contracts trading losses – (3,824) – – (3,824)
– onerous contracts provision for future losses – 5,364 – – 5,364
– exceptional losses on redundancy and restructuring costs – – (9,128) – (9,128)
Total exceptional items – 1,540 (9,128) – (7,588)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (551) (1,232) – (85) (1,868)
RDC 4,815 – – – 4,815
Statutory profit/(loss) before tax 65,921 27,536 (18,892) 1,853 76,418
Subsequent to the disposal of RDC, Management does not consider the results of RDC when reviewing the results of its Segments or Group 
as a whole. Therefore to be consistent and enable comparison, 2014 segmental information is revised to present RDC results separately 
in line with 2015 segmental information. This revised analysis may be reconciled to segmental information presented in the published 
2014 accounts as follows:
UK segment as 
presented in 
2014 published 
Financial 
Statements
£’000
Adjust for RDC
£’000
UK segment as 
presented 
above
£’000
Results
Adjusted gross profit 219,789 (10,234) 209,555
Adjusted administrative expenses (154,259) 5,432 (148,827)
Adjusted operating profit 65,530 (4,802) 60,728
Adjusted net interest 942 (13) 929
Adjusted profit before tax 66,472 (4,815) 61,657
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (551) – (551) 
RDC – 4,815 4,815
Statutory profit before tax 65,921 – 65,921
106
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The reconciliation for adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows:
UK
£’000
Germany
£’000
France
£’000
Belgium
£’000
Total
£’000
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 60,728 26,776 (8,835) 2,063 80,732
Add back interest on CSF 178 391 – – 569
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (551) (1,232) – (85) (1,868)
Exceptional items – 1,540 (9,128) – (7,588)
RDC 4,802 – – – 4,802
Statutory operating profit/(loss) 65,157 27,475 (17,963) 1,978 76,647
Other segment information
Property, plant and equipment 53,719 16,540 8,009 1,672 79,940
Intangible assets 70,431 17,833 69 2,011 90,344
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 4,802 7,344 759 1,172 14,077
Software 5,078 412 4 – 5,494
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10,719 7,505 2,047 127 20,398
Amortisation of software 10,018 706 83 – 10,807
Share-based payments 2,531 215 64 – 2,810
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from the UK segment are revenues of approximately £281 million (2014: £285 million) which arose from sales to the 
Group’s largest customer. For the purposes of this disclosure a single customer is considered to be a group of entities known to be under common 
control. This customer consists of entities under control of the UK Government.
107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 4 GROUP OPERATING PROFIT
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Auditor’s remuneration:
Audit of the Financial Statements 43 419
Audit of subsidiaries 478 64
Total audit fees 521 483
Audit related assurance services 17 42
Taxation compliance services 44 30
Other assurance services 54 –
Taxation advisory services 124 43
Total non-audit services 239 115
Total fees 760 598
During the year there was a change in Auditor. The breakdown of the total audit fees provided above is based on the analysis preferred by each firm.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18,885 20,398
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 387 676
Depreciation of investment property 227 –
Amortisation of software 11,758 10,807
Loss on disposal of software 9 1
Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,553 1,868
Net foreign currency differences 741 (456)
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 1,850,619 1,902,479
Operating lease payments – minimum lease payments 32,221 53,924
5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Operating profit
Redundancy and other restructuring costs (1,465) (9,128)
Onerous contracts 436 1,540
(1,029) (7,588)
Exceptional gain on disposal of a subsidiary 42,155 –
Exceptional items before taxation 41,126 (7,588)
Income tax
Tax on onerous contracts included in operating profit (52) (185)
Exceptional items after taxation 41,074 (7,773)
2015:
Included within the current year are the following exceptional items:
• Computacenter (UK) Limited disposed of its wholly owned subsidiary RDC during the year. An exceptional gain of £42.2 million was recognised on 
the disposal. See note 16 for details. In line with our accounting policy, Management has elected under IAS 1 to report this gain as a separate line item 
on the face of the consolidated income statement due to the materiality, infrequency and nature of this gain. As noted within the summary of 
significant accounting policies the adjusted results exclude this gain. This election provides the best guidance to users of our external reporting as 
to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the results of the Group in a way that is fair, balanced and understandable.
• Computacenter France continued with its substantial restructuring exercise that began in 2014. An additional cost of £1.5 million has been 
recognised as part of the Social Plan. As the redundancy and restructuring costs were treated as an exceptional item on recognition, the further 
provision has also been treated as an exceptional item. Within this balance Management has provided for legal expenses of £0.4 million directly 
related to individual legal challenges to termination settlements provided under the Social Plan. 
• The Group’s remaining two onerous contracts continue to show operational improvements therefore Management has revised its estimates 
of the losses to be incurred. On this basis the Group has released £0.4 million of the provision. As the onerous contracts were treated as an 
exceptional item on recognition, the write back of the provision has also been released as an exceptional item.
108
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 2014:
Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items:
• Computacenter France incurred an exceptional charge of £9.1 million relating to the estimated costs of a comprehensive restructuring plan 
with the Group’s French business. The substantial restructuring exercise aimed to reduce the cost base, improve the competitiveness and 
therefore improve the profitability of the Group’s French business.
• In line with our accounting policy, Management elected under IAS 1 to report this provision under the heading of ‘Exceptional Items’ due to the 
materiality, infrequency and nature of the restructuring plan. This election provides the best guidance to users of our external reporting as 
to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the results of the Group in a way that is fair, balanced and 
understandable. Excluding the costs related to the restructuring plan is consistent with treatment of similar costs in prior years and 
presents the adjusted profit before tax in a way that enables users to better assess the quality of the Group’s underlying profitability.
• The Group’s three onerous contracts performed within the provisions previously taken, and one of these contracts came to an end as of 
30 September 2014. A related legal dispute with a sub-contractor on one of these contracts, that was previously provided for, was resolved. 
Given these factors and ongoing operational improvements within the two remaining contracts, Management revised its estimates of the 
losses to be incurred. On this basis the Group released £1.5 million of the provision. As the onerous contracts were treated as an exceptional 
item on recognition, the write back of the provision was also released as an exceptional item.
6 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 543,110 542,594
Social security costs 81,803 84,682
Share-based payments 4,670 2,810
Pension costs 21,274 20,595
650,857 651,907
Share-based payments arise from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.  
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
2015
No.
2014
No.
UK 5,971 5,770
Germany 5,077 5,044
France 1,734 1,858
Belgium 211 287
12,993 12,959
7 FINANCE REVENUE
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Bank interest receivable 1,410 1,510
Other interest received 188 105
1,598 1,615
8 FINANCE COSTS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Bank loans and overdrafts 714 969
Finance charges payable on CSF 340 570
Other interest 1,117 305
2,171 1,844
109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 9 INCOME TAX
a) Tax on profit from ordinary activities
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Tax charged in the consolidated income statement
Current income tax
UK corporation tax 14,639 17,048
Foreign tax
– operating results before exceptional items 6,485 5,820
– exceptional items – (459)
Total foreign tax 6,485 5,361
Adjustments in respect of prior years (232) 191
Total current income tax 20,892 22,600
Deferred tax
Operating results before exceptional items
– origination and reversal of temporary differences (1,276) (1,340)
– adjustments in respect of prior years (276) (604)
– changes in recoverable amounts of deferred tax assets 4,265 –
Exceptional items 52 644
Total deferred tax 2,765 (1,300)
Tax charge in the consolidated income statement 23,657 21,300
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Accounting profit before income tax 126,767 76,418
At the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25 per cent (2014: 21.49 per cent) 25,670 16,422
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,187 1,173
Non-deductible element of share-based payment charge 128 60
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (599) (510)
Higher tax on overseas earnings 3,140 1,417
Other differences (39) (591)
Effect of changes in tax rate on deferred tax 220 –
Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets – (3,238)
Overseas tax not based on earnings 1,065 1,345
Non-chargeable exceptional gain on disposal of subsidiary (8,529) –
Deferred tax not recognised on current year losses 1,414 5,222
At effective income tax rate of 18.7 per cent (2014: 27 .9 per cent) 23,657 21,300
c) Tax losses
Deferred tax assets of £7 .4 million (2014: £12.2 million) have been recognised in respect of losses carried forward. 
In addition, at 31 December 2015, there were unused tax losses across the Group of £130.9 million (2014: £1 15.8 million) for which no deferred tax 
asset has been recognised. Of these losses, £33.5 million (2014: £35.9 million) arise in Germany and £93.3 million (2014: £78.9 million) arise in France. 
A significant proportion of the losses arising in Germany have been generated in statutory entities that no longer have significant levels of trade. 
The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other loss-making overseas subsidiaries. 
110
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 d) Deferred tax
Deferred income tax at 31 December relates to the following:
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated income statement  
and other comprehensive income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated capital allowances 1,197 1,781 (584) (189)
Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 370 – 370 –
Amortisation of intangibles 661 976 (315) (309)
Gross deferred income tax liabilities 2,228 2,757
Deferred income tax assets
Relief on share option gains 2,590 1,645 (945) (502)
Other temporary differences 4,348 3,205 (364) (1,118)
Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 176 54 (122) 273
Losses available for offset against future taxable income 7,431 12,155 4,725 545
Gross deferred income tax assets 14,545 17,059
Deferred income tax (credit)/charge 2,765 (1,300)
Net deferred income tax assets 12,317 14,301
Disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet
Deferred income tax assets 12,840 15,049
Deferred income tax liabilities (523) (748)
Net deferred income tax assets 12,317 14,301
At 31 December 2015, there was no recognised or unrecognised deferred income tax liability (2014: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on the 
unremitted earnings of the Group’s subsidiaries as the Group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries will be 
covered by the UK dividend exemption.
e) Impact of rate change
The main rate of UK Corporation will be reduced to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and 18 per cent from 1 April 2020, as enacted in the Finance Act 
2015. The deferred tax in these Financial Statements reflects this.
 
10 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding during the year (excluding own shares held).
To calculate diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive 
potential shares. Share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary 
shares during the year are considered to be dilutive potential shares.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 103,110 55,117
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Basic weighted average number of shares (excluding own shares held) 122,948 135,985
Effect of dilution:
Share options 2,655 1,784
Diluted weighted average number of shares 125,603 137,769
2015
pence
2014
pence
Basic earnings per share 83.9 40.5
Diluted earnings per share 82.1 40.0
111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 10 EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED
Return of Value
On 20 February 2015 (the Issue Date), Computacenter Plc (the Company) effected a capital reorganisation (the Capital Reorganisation) in order to 
facilitate the Return of Value to shareholders. As part of the Capital Reorganisation, each existing ordinary share of 6
2
/
3
 pence each was subdivided 
into 15 undesignated shares of 
4
/
9
 pence each, and immediately following such subdivision every 17 undesignated shares were consolidated into 
1 new ordinary share of 7
5
/
9
 pence each. Additionally on the Issue Date, an amount of £14,500 standing to the credit of the Company’s share 
premium account was applied to pay up in full 145,000,000 non-redeemable B shares with a nominal value of 0.01 pence each. The total number 
of B shares actually issued to shareholders were 139,012,000. Immediately after the issue of B shares relating to Return of Value, total B shares 
of the Company were converted to deferred shares.
As part of the Return of Value, Shareholders were able to elect between the following alternatives in relation to their B Shares:
Alternative 1 – Single B Share Dividend (Income)
Shareholders could elect to receive the Single B Share Dividend of 71.9 pence per B Share in respect of all of their B Shares.
Alternative 2 – Purchase Offer (Capital)
Alternatively, Shareholders (other than US Shareholders) could elect for all of their B Shares to be purchased by Investec Bank plc, acting as principal 
on 23 February 2015, at 71.9 pence per B Share, free of all dealing expenses and commissions.
 
11 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 13.1 pence (2013: 12.3 pence) 15,776 16,636
First interim dividend for 2015: 6.4 pence (2014: 5.9 pence) 7,698 8,037
23,474 24,673
Proposed (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Second interim dividend for 2015: 15.0 pence (2014: nil pence) 18,399 –
Final dividend for 2015: nil pence (2014: 13.1 pence) – 15,737
112
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold land 
and buildings
£’000
Short
leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Fixtures, 
fittings,
equipment and 
vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 77,999 25,234 157,917 261,150
Additions 1,069 1,442 11,566 14,077
Disposals – (2,717) (9,282) (11,999)
Foreign currency adjustment (110) (1,199) (3,709) (5,018)
At 31 December 2014 78,958 22,760 156,492 258,210
Relating to disposal of a subsidiary (note 16) (2,107) (2,726) (2,039) (6,872)
Additions 467 2,146 10,690 13,303
Transfer to investment property (note 13) (11,167) – – (11,167)
Disposals – (853) (30,581) (31,434)
Foreign currency adjustment (97) (802) (3,122) (4,021)
At 31 December 2015 66,054 20,525 131,440 218,019
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 35,027 13,613 123,466 172,106
Provided during the year 2,274 2,996 15,128 20,398
Disposals – (2,650) (8,629) (11,279)
Foreign currency adjustment (11) (1,009) (1,935) (2,955)
At 31 December 2014 37,290 12,950 128,030 178,270
Relating to disposal of a subsidiary (note 16) (534) (665) (1,558) (2,757)
Provided during the year 2,267 2,341 14,277 18,885
Transfer to investment property (note 13) (680) – – (680)
Disposals – (801) (29,592) (30,393)
Foreign currency adjustment (8) (669) (1,761) (2,438)
At 31 December 2015 38,335 13,156 109,396 160,887
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 27,719 7,369 22,044 57,132
At 31 December 2014 41,668 9,810 28,462 79,940
At 1 January 2014 42,972 11,621 34,451 89,044
113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
Included in the figures above are the following amounts relating to leased assets which are used to satisfy specific customer contracts:
Fixtures, fittings, equipment  
and vehicles
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 68,540 74,971
Additions 1,308 1,888
Disposals (31,310) (7,205)
Foreign currency adjustment (645) (1,114)
At 31 December 37,893 68,540
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 60,853 63,785
Provided during the year 3,169 4,550
Disposals (29,688) (6,858)
Foreign currency adjustment (258) (624)
At 31 December 34,076 60,853
Net book value 3,817 7,687
13 INVESTMENT PROPERTY
2015
£’000
Cost
Transfer from property, plant and equipment (note 12) 11,167
At 31 December 11,167
Accumulated depreciation
Transfer from property, plant and equipment (note 12) 680
Provided during the year 227
At 31 December 907
Net book value 10,260
Investment property represents a building owned by Digica Group Finance Limited (a fully owned subsidiary of the Group) that is leased to RDC, a 
former subsidiary of the Group. RDC was sold at the beginning of the year, and as a result the building leased to RDC has now been reclassified as 
investment property rather than owner occupied property. 
The fair value of investment property amounted to £13.5 million at 31 December 2015. The fair values for disclosure purposes have been determined 
using either the support of qualified independent external valuers or by internal valuers with the necessary recognised and relevant professional 
qualification, applying a combination of the present value of future cash flows and observable market values of comparable properties.
114
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
£’000
Software
£’000
Acquired 
intangible
assets
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 57,415 83,588 19,042 160,045
Additions – 5,494 – 5,494
Disposals – (557) – (557)
Foreign currency adjustment (1,556) (645) (769) (2,970)
At 31 December 2014 55,859 87,880 18,273 162,012
Relating to disposal of a subsidiary (note 16) (835) (2,956) – (3,791)
Additions – 7,294 – 7,294 
Disposals – (310) – (310)
Foreign currency adjustment (332) (391) (151) (874)
At 31 December 2015 54,692 91,517 18,122 164,331
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 9,063 38,161 13,951 61,175
Provided during the year – 10,807 1,868 12,675
Disposals – (555) – (555)
Foreign currency adjustment (570) (389) (668) (1,627)
At 31 December 2014 8,493 48,024 15,151 71,668
Relating to disposal of a subsidiary (note 16) – (1,835) – (1,835)
Provided during the year – 11,758 1,553 13,311
Disposals – (301) – (301)
Foreign currency adjustment 461 (348) (158) (45)
At 31 December 2015 8,954 57,298 16,546 82,798
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 45,738 34,219 1,576 81,533
At 31 December 2014 47,366 39,856 3,122 90,344
At 1 January 2014 48,352 45,427 5,091 98,870
15 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL, OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to the following CGUs:
• Computacenter (UK) Limited
• Computacenter Germany
• Computacenter France
• Computacenter Switzerland
• NEWIS SA and Informatic Services IS SA (together ‘Belgium IS’).
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal Management purposes.
Certain other corporate assets are unable to be allocated against specific CGUs. These assets are tested across an aggregation of CGUs that utilise 
the asset.
Movements in goodwill
Computacenter 
(UK) Limited
£’000
R.D. Trading
£’000
Computacenter
Germany
£’000
Computacenter
France
£’000
Computacenter 
AG
£’000
Belgium IS
£’000
Total
£’000
1 January 2014 30,429 835 14,887 – 907 1,294 48,352
Foreign currency adjustment – – (939) – (45) (2) (986)
31 December 2014 30,429 835 13,948 – 862 1,292 47,366
Foreign currency adjustment – – (715) – 48 (126) (793)
Disposal of a subsidiary (note 16) – (835) – – – – (835)
31 December 2015 30,429 – 13,233 – 910 1,166 45,738
Market growth rate 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5%
Discount rate 11.0% 11.0% 11.0% 12.0% 12.0% 15.0%
115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 15 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL, OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS CONTINUED
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The recoverable amounts of all five (2014: six) CGUs have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation. To calculate this, cash flow 
projections are based on financial budgets approved by Senior Management covering a three-year period and on long-term market growth rates 
of between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent (2014: between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent) thereafter.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for all CGUs for 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are:
• budgeted revenue, which is based on long-run market growth forecasts;
• budgeted gross margins, which are based on average gross margins achieved in the year immediately before the budgeted year, adjusted 
for expected long-run market pricing trends; and
• the discount rate applied to cash flow projections ranges from 11.0 to 15.0 per cent (2014: 11.0 to 15.0 per cent) which represents the Group’s 
pre-tax discount rate adjusted for the risk profiles of the individual CGUs.
Each CGU generates value substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill attributed to each of them. Management therefore believes 
that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its 
recoverable amount.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets consist of customer contracts, customer relationships and tools and technology. The expected useful lives are shown in 
note 2.
Other non-current assets
When there is an indication of impairment within a CGU, the carrying value of the non-current assets are compared to their recoverable amount 
which is the higher of the assets’ fair value less costs of disposal or the value-in-use of the CGU calculated as described above.
In France, a shortfall from the financial budgets approved by Management, or adverse changes in the assumptions, such as a 0.5 per cent reduction 
in market growth rate or an increase in the discount rate of 0.5 per cent would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount.
16 INVESTMENTS
a) Investment in associate
The following table illustrates summarised information of the investment in associates:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 591 594
Exchange rate movement (2) (3)
At 31 December 589 591
Impairment
At 1 January and 31 December (549) (549)
Carrying value 40 42
Gonicus GmbH
The Group has a 20 per cent (2014: 20 per cent) interest in Gonicus GmbH, whose principal activity is the provision of Open Source Software. Gonicus 
is a private entity, incorporated in Germany, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair 
value of this investment. The reporting date of Gonicus is 31 December.
ICS Solutions Limited (‘ICS’)
The Group has a 25 per cent (2014: 25 per cent) interest in ICS Solutions Limited whose principal activity is the delivering of both on-premise and cloud 
based services and solutions across the Microsoft technology stack. ICS is a private entity, incorporated in the United Kingdom, that is not listed on 
any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of the investment. The reporting date of ICS is 30 June.
 
b) Investment in subsidiaries
The Group’s subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name Country of incorporation Nature of business
Proportion of voting rights  
and shares held
2015 2014
Computacenter (UK) Limited England IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter France SAS France IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Logival (SARL) France IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter Holding GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter Aktiengesellschaft Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
116
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Name Country of incorporation Nature of business
Proportion of voting rights  
and shares held
2015 2014
Computacenter Management GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter Managed Services GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter NV/SA Belgium IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter NV Netherlands IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
R.D. Trading Limited England IT Asset Management – 100%
1
Computacenter PSF SA Luxembourg IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter (U.S.) Inc USA IT Infrastructure services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Services (Iberia) SLU Spain International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Digica Group Finance Limited England Investment Property 100%
1
100%
1
Digica Group Holdings Limited England IT infrastructure and application services 100% 100%
Computacenter Services and Solutions (Pty) 
Limited South Africa IT Infrastructure services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter AG Switzerland IT Infrastructure services 100% 80%
Informatic Services IS SA Belgium IT Infrastructure services 100%
3
100%
3
Computacenter Services (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Services Kft Hungary International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter India Private Limited India International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Information Technology 
(Shanghai) Company Limited Malaysia International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Germany AG & Co oHG Germany IT Infrastructure services 100%
2
100%
2
Computacenter AG & Co oHG Germany IT Infrastructure services 100%
2
100%
2
E’ZWO Computervertriebs Germany IT Infrastructure services 100%
2
100%
2
Alfatron GmbH Elektronik – Vertrieb Germany IT Infrastructure services 100%
2
100%
2
C’NARIO Informationsprodukte Vertriebs-GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100%
2
100%
2
Computacenter Trustees Limited England Employee Share Scheme Trustees 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Quest Trustees Limited England Employee Share Scheme Trustees 100%
1
100%
1
Allnet Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Amazon Computers Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Amazon Energy Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Amazon Systems Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
CAD Systems Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Compufix Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter (FMS) Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter (Management Services) Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter (Mid-Market) Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Consumables Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Distribution Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Leasing Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Maintenance Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Overseas Holdings Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Services Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Software Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Solutions Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Training Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computadata Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Computer Services Group Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Digica Group Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Digica Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Name Country of incorporation Nature of business
Proportion of voting rights  
and shares held
2015 2014
Digica SMP Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Digica (FMS) Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
ICG Services Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
M Services Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Merchant Business Systems Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
Merchant Systems Limited England Dormant company 100%
1
100%
1
1. Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter (UK) Limited.
2. Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter Holding GmbH.
3. Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter NV/SA.
Computacenter plc is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
Disposal of subsidiary
On 2 February 2015, the Group announced that it had disposed of its wholly-owned IT disposal and recycling subsidiary, RDC. The Group reached 
agreement with Arrow Electronics UK Holding Limited for the disposal of the entire issued share capital of RDC. For the year ended 31 December 
2015, RDC generated revenues of £3.5 million (2014: £22.8 million) and statutory profit before tax of £0.3 million (2014: £4.8 million). The net assets 
of RDC, including cash of £3.8 million, were disposed of for a gross consideration of £59.9 million in cash to the Group. This generated an exceptional 
gain of £42.2 million. The net assets of RDC at the date of disposal were as follows:
2015
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 4,115 
Intangible assets (software) 1,121 
Inventories 7,078 
Trade and other receivables 4,330 
Prepayments 361 
Cash and short-term deposits 3,829 
Trade and other payables (3,699) 
Income tax payable (327) 
Attributable goodwill 835 
Total net assets 17,643 
Gain on disposal 42,155 
Total consideration, net of disposal costs 59,798 
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 59,798 
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of (3,829) 
55,969 
For the full results of RDC for the year, refer to page 46 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Update on acquisition made in 2011
On 21 July 201 1, the Group acquired 80 per cent of Computacenter AG in Switzerland for an initial consideration of CHF 7 .2 million, and agreed to 
purchase the remaining 20 per cent by mid-2015 for a maximum consideration of CHF 3.2 million dependent upon the achievement of agreed 
performance criteria during that period. Due to the nature of the transaction, the Group had access to the benefits associated with the remaining 
20 per cent of Damax. Therefore the Group recorded this acquisition as a linked transaction, and accordingly consolidated 100 per cent of the 
results of Damax since the acquisition date and estimated the fair value of the deferred consideration payable. During the year, Damax achieved 
the agreed performance criteria which triggered the maximum consideration payable of 3.2 million CHF by the Group. The Group has paid the 
3.2 million CHF during the year to the previous owner of the business. Details of the book and fair values of the net assets acquired are disclosed 
in note 16 of the December 201 1 Annual Report and Accounts.
16 INVESTMENTS CONTINUED
b) Investment in subsidiaries continued
118
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 17 INVENTORIES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Inventories for re-sale 45,647 50,006
18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade receivables 609,731 686,253
Other receivables 12,025 9,662
621,756 695,915
For terms and conditions relating to related party receivables, refer to note 32. 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day credit terms. Note 25 sets out the Group’s strategy towards credit risk.
The movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At 1 January 16,837 14,964
Charge for the year 5,468 11,847
Utilised (3,769) (5,389)
Unused amounts reversed (4,748) (3,775)
Foreign currency adjustment (658) (810)
At 31 December 13,130 16,837
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Total
£’000
Neither past
due nor 
impaired
£’000
Past due but not impaired
<30 days
£’000
30–60 days
£’000
60–90 days
£’000
90–120 days
£’000
>120 days
£’000
2015 609,731 547,638 40,084 13,106 4,275 1,050 3,578
2014 686,253 568,707 69,814 21,276 6,515 5,245 14,695
Of the amount of £8,903,000 (2014: £26,455,000) which is 60 or more days past due but not impaired, £4,641,000 (2014: £17 ,559,000) relates to 
Computacenter France.
19 CASH AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 111,770 129,865
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of 
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term 
deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £1 1 1,770,000 (2014: £129,865,000).
Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the Group is now in a position where it can finance its requirements from its cash balance. 
The Group does, however, retain overdraft facilities where required. The uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group are £13.7 million at 
31 December 2015 (2014: £16.1 million). During 2013 the Group entered into a specific committed facility of £40.0 million for a three-year term which 
was due to expire in May 2016. In February 2015 this facility was extended at the same value through to February 2018. At 31 December 2015 the 
facility was not utilised.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 111,770 129,865
Bank overdrafts (note 21) (90) (719)
111,680 129,146
119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 19 CASH AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS CONTINUED
Cash pooling
The Group operates a notional cash pooling facility whereby Group companies have instant access to a facility into which excess funds can be 
deposited or withdrawn to meet funding requirements. Due to the nature of this facility, all balances related to this arrangement are disclosed 
within cash at bank and in hand.
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables 392,757 423,164
Other payables 189,098 212,115
581,855 635,279
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
For terms and conditions relating to related parties, refer to note 32.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on net monthly terms.
Other payables, which principally relate to other taxes, social security costs and accruals, are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 
three months.
 
21 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current
Bank overdrafts 90 719
Other loans – ‘CSF’ 1,514 2,616
Other loans – ‘Non-CSF’ – 517
Bank loan – 116
Current obligations under finance leases – ‘CSF’ (note 23) 2,675 2,882
4,279 6,850
Non-current
Bank loan 5 4
Non-current obligations under finance leases – ‘CSF’ (note 23) 1,698 3,814
1,703 3,818
There are no material differences between the fair value of financial liabilities and their book value.
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts are unsecured and are subject to annual review.
Finance leases
The finance leases are only secured on the assets that they finance. These assets are in the main used to satisfy specific customer contracts. 
There are a small number of assets that are utilised internally.
Other loans
The other loans are unsecured borrowings to finance equipment sold to customers on specific contracts or for equipment for own use. 
Other loans comprise the following:
Maturity date Interest rate £’000
31 December 2015
2016 1.75% – 6.67% 1,514
Less: current instalments due on other loans (1,514)
–
120
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Maturity date Interest rate £’000
31 December 2014
2015 1.75% – 6.67% 3,133
Less: current instalments due on other loans (3,133)
–
The table below summarises the maturity profile of these loans:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Not later than one year 1,514 3,133
1,514 3,133
The finance lease and loan facilities are committed.
Facilities
At 31 December 2015, the Group had available £13.7 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities (2014: £16.1 million).
22 FORWARD CURRENCY CONTRACTS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss
Foreign exchange forward contracts 358 2,296
Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange forward contracts 940 (251)
1,298 2,045
Cash flow hedges
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income
These amounts reflect the change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges which are used to hedge 
expected contract costs in South African Rand where sales on those contracts are in Sterling, based on highly probable forecast transactions.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
The Group also enters into other foreign exchange forward contracts with the intention to reduce the foreign exchange risk of expected sales and 
purchases. When these other contracts are not designated in hedge relationships they are measured at fair value through profit and loss within 
administrative expenses.
The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency costs and changes in the foreign exchange 
forward rates.
Effectiveness of Hedging
The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts have been negotiated for the expected highly probable forecast transactions to which hedge 
accounting has been applied. No significant element of hedge ineffectiveness required recognition in the income statement.
The cash flow hedges of the forecasted costs were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised gain of £940,000 (2014: loss of £251,000) 
with a deferred tax liability of £190,000 (2014: asset of £54,000) relating to the hedging instruments is included in other comprehensive income. 
The amounts retained in other comprehensive income of £947 ,000 are expected to mature and affect the income statement between 2016 and 2018.
121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 23 OBLIGATIONS UNDER LEASES
a) Finance lease commitments
The Group has finance leases for various items of plant and machinery; these leases have no terms of renewal or purchase options and escalation 
clauses. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
2015 2014
Minimum 
payments
£’000
Present value 
of payments
£’000
Minimum 
payments
£’000
Present value 
of payments
£’000
Within one year 2,810 2,675 3,538 2,882
After one year but not more than five years 1,765 1,698 3,604 3,814
4,575 4,373 7,142 6,696
Future finance charges (202) (446)
Present value of finance lease obligation 4,373 6,696
b) Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of small machinery. There are no restrictions placed 
upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Future commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Within one year 42,512 34,248
After one year but not more than five years 65,993 52,302
More than five years 18,535 13,357
127,040 99,907
c) Operating lease receivables where the Group is lessor
The Group entered into commercial leases with customers on certain items of machinery. These leases have remaining terms of between one and five years.
Future amounts receivable by the Group under the non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Within one year 1,024 2,651
After one year but not more than five years 4,000 3,796
More than five years 4,090 –
9,114 6,447
24 PROVISIONS
Customer 
contract 
provisions
£’000
Other 
provision
£’000
Property 
provisions
£’000
Total 
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2015 3,026 9,658 5,300 17,984
Arising during the year – 1,557 157 1,714
Utilised (1,155) (5,715) (2,205) (9,075)
Provisions unused reversed (436) (77) – (513)
Exchange adjustment (177) (554) (235) (966)
At 31 December 2015 1,258 4,869 3,017 9,144
Current 2015 751 1,568 1,731 4,050
Non-current 2015 507 3,301 1,286 5,094
1,258 4,869 3,017 9,144
Current 2014 1,882 5,810 2,116 9,808
Non-current 2014 1,144 3,848 3,184 8,176
3,026 9,658 5,300 17,984
122
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Customer contract provisions
Customer contract provisions are based on the Directors’ best estimate of the amount of future losses to completion on certain contractual services 
contracts. Whilst there continues to be uncertainty around the future performance of these contracts and the exact timing of cash flows , this uncertainty 
continues to decrease due to the Group’s experience in running these particular contracts. Management remains comfortable with the level of the 
provision. One of the three contracts ended during the final quarter of 2015 leaving only two provided for at 31 December 2015. The initial contracted periods 
for both of these contracts are due to complete during 2016, with one completing in the first half of the year and the other in the second.
Property provisions
Assumptions used to calculate the property provisions are based on the market value of the rental charges plus any contractual dilapidation 
expenses on empty properties and the Directors’ best estimates of the likely time before the relevant leases can be reassigned or sub-let, which 
ranges between one and fifteen years. The provisions in relation to the UK properties are discounted at a rate based upon the Bank of England base 
rate. Those in respect of the European operations are discounted at a rate based on Euribor.
Other provisions
Included within other provisions are estimated costs associated with elements of the comprehensive transformation of the Group’s French business. 
These included costs relate specifically to a material change in the employment base across the French Business known as the Social Plan.
The nature of the costs previously provided for include termination payments and retraining and resettlement costs for redundant employees.
Management implementation of the plan is largely complete with the individuals included within the Social Plan no longer working for the French 
business and the majority of the overall cash flows of the costs provided for have been completed by the end of 2015. The costs provided for during 
2015 primarily include further entrants to the Social Plan who have been added during the year. The majority of the future cash flows of the costs 
provided at year end are expected to occur during 2016.
The provision is based inter alia on assumptions concerning the duration of individual settlement payment programmes and the uptake of 
retraining and resettlement packages. As disclosed last year, there remains some residual uncertainty relating to individual legal challenges to 
the implementation of the Social Plan. These uncertainties arise both from technical arguments around whether the Social Plan process followed 
was procedurally correct and had pre-existing approval from the multiple, potentially interested, regulatory authorities and also from a challenge 
as to whether Computacenter France was damaging to the overall Group competitiveness and economic performance. Having taken independent 
legal advice on this matter Management has applied judgements which it considers reasonable in establishing the required provision. Management 
has provided for legal expenses of £0.4 million directly related to these individual legal challenges to termination settlements provided under 
the Social Plan. 
Also included within other provisions is a provision against the Group’s retirement benefit obligations in France under the Indemnités de Fin de 
Carrière (IFC) as described in note 2. Economic outflows under the obligation only occur if eligible employees reach the statutory retirement age 
whilst still in employment. The Group made no payments during 2015 under this obligation (2014: £16,000).
In estimating the provision required, Management is required to make a number of assumptions. The key areas of estimation uncertainty are the 
discount rate applied to future cash flows, the turnover rate of employed personnel and rate of salary increases over the length of their projected 
employment. The level of unrealised actuarial gains or losses are sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and 
therefore subject to variation.
The net liability recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 in respect of the Group’s French retirement benefit obligations under the IFC was 
£3.3 million (2014: £3.4 million).
25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Group Finance Director’s 
review on pages 39 to 47 .
Credit risk
The Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer credit limits. The credit limits are set for each customer based on the 
creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity. These limits are initially determined when the customer account is first 
set up and are regularly monitored thereafter. The balance of trade receivables relates to customers for whom there is no recent history of default. 
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivables from the date 
the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The maximum exposure on trade receivables, as at the reporting date, is their carrying value.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, current asset 
investment and forward currency contracts, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure 
equal to the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents. The Group manages its counterparty credit risk by placing cash on deposit across a 
panel of reputable banking institutions, with no more than £50.0 million deposited at any one time except for UK Government backed 
counterparties where the limit is £70.0 million.
Aside from the counterparty risk above, there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, cash and short-term deposits and finance leases and 
loans for certain customer contracts. The Group’s bank borrowings, existing committed and uncommitted facilities and deposits are at floating 
rates. No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into. If long-term borrowings were to be utilised in the future, the Group’s policy 
would be to maintain these borrowings at fixed rates to limit the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
123
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Interest rate sensitivity
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity.
Change in 
basis points
Effect on profit 
before tax
£’000
2015
Sterling +25 146
Euro +25 138
US Dollars +25 33
2014
Sterling +25 255
Euro +25 61
The impact of a reasonable possible decrease to the same range shown in the table would result in an opposite impact on the profit before tax of 
the same magnitude.
Fair values
The carrying value of the Group’s short-term receivables and payables is a reasonable approximation of their fair values. The fair value of all other 
financial instruments carried within the Group’s Financial Statements is not materially different from their carrying amount.
Forward currency contracts
At 31 December 2015 the Group held foreign exchange contracts as hedges of an inter-company loan and future expected payments to suppliers. 
The exchange contracts are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk. The terms of these contracts are detailed below:
31 December 2015
Buy currency Sell currency Value of contracts Maturity dates Contract rates
UK Euros Sterling €4,550,469 Jan 16 – Jun 16 1.342 – 1.366
Sterling US Dollars £2,226,626 Jan 16 – Mar 16 1.475 – 1.482
Sterling Euros £7,464,998 Jan 16 – Feb 16 1.354 – 1.423
Sterling Swiss Francs £473,269 Jan 16 – Jun 16 1.459 – 1.470
Sterling Hungarian Forint £656,637 Jan 16 428.028
US Dollars Sterling $31,721,780 Jan 16 – Apr 16 1.475 – 1.553
Sterling Swedish Krona £647,151 Jan 16 12.462
Hungarian Forint Sterling HUF 488,000,000 Jan 16 – Oct 17 428.155 – 430.009
SA Rand Sterling ZAR 247,766,652 Jan 16 – Dec 17 19.465 – 23.062
US Dollars Euros $4,000,000 Jan 16 1.089
Germany US Dollars Euros $52,525,000 Jan 16 – Apr 16 1.0635 – 1.3107
Hungarian Forint Euros HUF 651,000,000 Jan 16 – Oct 16 321.00 – 323.58
31 December 2014
Buy currency Sell currency Value of contracts Maturity dates Contract rates
UK Euros Sterling €2,039,624 Jan 15 1.2513 – 1.2678
Sterling US Dollars £2,747,873 Jan 15 – Feb 15 1.5517 – 1.5756
Sterling Euros £8,371,469 Jan 15 – Feb 16 1.2504 – 1.2786
US Dollars Sterling $38,241,444 Jan 15 – Apr 15 1.5529 – 1.6342
Danish Kroner Sterling DKK 207,744 Jan 15 9.4749
Swiss Francs Sterling CHF 500,00 Apr 15 1.5384
HK Dollars Sterling HKD 400,000 Jan 15 12.0909
Hungarian Forint Sterling HUF 407,200,000 Jan 15 – Jul 16 394.8716 – 398.0425
SA Rand Sterling ZAR 374,143,726 Jan 15 – Dec 17 17 .3776 – 21.5534
Germany US Dollars Euros $69,885,000 Jan 15 – Jan 16 1.2163 – 1.3445
Hungarian Forint Euros HUF 1,103,500,000 Jan 15 – Jan 18 321.00 – 323.58
France Hungarian Forint Euros HUF 628,969,730 Jan 15 – Oct 15 309.7486 – 319.77
124
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the above contracts are detailed in note 22.
Exchange rate sensitivity
The majority of the transactions in each of the Group’s geographical segments are denominated in the functional currency of that segment. There 
are, however, a limited number of transactions where foreign currency exchange risk exists. In these instances the Group enters into forward 
currency contracts, as shown in the above table, in order to mitigate such risk. At the end of the year the fair value of the outstanding contracts was 
a net asset of £1,298,000 (2014: £2,045,000).
Other than differences arising from the translation of results of operations outside of the Group’s functional currency, reasonably foreseeable 
movements in the exchange rates of +10 per cent or -10 per cent would not have a material impact on the Group’s profit before tax or equity.
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments:
On demand
£’000
<3 months
£’000
3–12 months
£’000
1–5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Financial liabilities 90 1,583 2,340 2,171 6,184
Derivative financial instruments – 574 338 10 922
Trade and other payables – 581,855 – – 581,855
90 584,012 2,678 2,181 588,961
On demand
£’000
<3 months
£’000
3–12 months
£’000
1–5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2014
Financial liabilities 1,004 2,226 4,128 3,602 10,960
Derivative financial instruments – 114 222 53 389
Trade and other payables – 638,662 – – 638,662
1,004 641,002 4,350 3,655 650,011
Fair value measurements recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
Financial instruments which are recognised at fair value subsequent to initial recognition are grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to 
which the fair value is observable. The three levels are defined as follows:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Derivative financial instruments – forward currency contracts
At 31 December 2015 the Group had forward currency contracts, which were measured at Level 2 fair value subsequent to initial recognition, to the 
value of a net asset of £1,298,000 (31 December 2014: £2,045,000).
The realised gains from forward currency contracts in the year to 31 December 2015 of £747 ,000 (2014: £4,405,000 loss), are offset by broadly 
equivalent realised losses on the related underlying transactions.
26 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Computacenter’s approach to capital management is to ensure that the Group has a strong capital base to support the development of the 
business and to maintain a strong credit rating, whilst aiming to maximise shareholder value.
Consistent with the Group’s aim to maximise return to shareholders, the Company’s Dividend Policy is to maintain a dividend cover of between 
2 to 2.5 times. In 2015 the cover was 2.5 times, on an adjusted profit basis (2014: 2.5 times).
The Group’s capital base is primarily utilised to finance its fixed assets and working capital requirements. The Group seeks to optimise the use of 
working capital and improve its cash flow. As a consequence, the UK has sourced an increasing proportion of its product business via distributors 
in order to reduce the working capital requirements of the business.
Capital is allocated across the Group in order to minimise the Group’s exposure to exchange rates. Each country finances its own working capital 
requirements, typically resulting in borrowings in France with cash on deposit in the UK and Germany. During 2013, a notional cash pooling 
arrangement was introduced, which is still in place, which Group companies can access and allows the Group to pool its funds.
In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts that are financed by leases, which are secured only on the assets that they 
finance, or loans. Whilst the outstanding amounts of this CSF are included within net funds
4
 for statutory reporting purposes, the Group excludes 
this CSF when managing the net funds
4
 of the business as this outstanding financing is matched by committed future revenues. These financing 
facilities, which are committed, are thus outside of the normal working capital requirements of the Group’s product resale and services activities.
125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 26 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
In certain circumstances, the Group deposits its funds in short-term investments that do not fulfil the criteria to be classified as cash and cash 
equivalents. The Group considers these deposits when managing the net funds
4
 of the business, and accordingly includes these deposits within net 
funds
4
 excluding CSF .
Capital, defined as net funds
4
, that the Group monitors is:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Net funds
4
 excluding CSF 126,675 128,509
CSF (5,887) (9,312)
Net funds
4
120,788 119,197
Each operating country manages its working capital in line with Group policies. The key components of working capital, i.e. trade receivables, inventory and 
trade payables, are managed in accordance with an agreed number of days targeted in the budget process, in order to ensure efficient capital usage.
An important element of the process of managing capital efficiently is to ensure that each operating country rewards behaviour at an Account 
Manager and Account Director level to minimise working capital, at a transactional level. This is achieved by increasing commission payments for 
early payment by customers and reduced commission payments for late payment by customers, which encourages appropriate behaviour.
The Group regularly reviews the adequacy of its facilities against any foreseeable peak borrowing requirement. At 31 December 2015, the Group had 
available £13.7 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities (2014: £16.1 million of uncommitted overdraft and factoring facilities).
27 ISSUED CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Authorised share capital
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital. The Company’s Articles of Association has 
been amended to reflect this change.
Ordinary shares
Issued and fully paid
6
2
/3p ordinary
shares
No. ’000
7
5
/9p ordinary
shares
No. ’000
0.01p 
B shares
No. ’000
0.01p 
Deferred  
shares
No. ’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 138,930 – 89,432 – 9,271
Prior period correction – – 64,500 – 6
Ordinary shares issued during the year for cash on exercise of share options 82 – – – 6
At 31 December 2014 139,012 – 153,932 – 9,283
Share consolidation (139,012) 122,658 – – –
Return of Value – issue of B shares – – 139,012 – 14
Conversion of B shares to deferred shares – – (292,944) 292,944 –
At 31 December 2015 – 122,658 – 292,944 9,297
During the year, the issued share capital was increased by £14,000 by the issue of B shares of 0.01 pence each.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the general 
meetings of the Company. On a winding up of the Company, holders of ordinary shares may be entitled to the residual assets of the Company.
The Company has a number of share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to certain 
executives and senior employees (note 28).
Share premium
The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Company’s shares are issued/redeemed 
at a premium.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the Company’s capital following the purchase and cancellation of its own shares. During the 
year the Company repurchased nil of its own shares for cancellation (2014: nil).
Own shares held
Own shares held comprise the following:
i) Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan
Shares in the parent undertaking comprise 1,999,249 7
5
/
9
 pence ordinary shares (2014: 2,772,338 6
2
/
3
 pence) of Computacenter plc purchased 
by the Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan (the Plan). The principal purpose of the Plan is to be funded with shares that will satisfy 
discretionary executive share plans. The number of shares held represents 1.6 per cent (2014: 2.0 per cent) of the Company’s issued share capital.
126
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 None of these shares were awarded to executives of the Company under the Computacenter (UK) Limited Cash Bonus and Share Plan. Options previously 
awarded are to be held on behalf of employees and former employees of Computacenter (UK) Limited and their dependants, excluding Jersey residents. 
The distribution of these shares is dependent upon the trustee holding them on the employees’ behalf for a restrictive period of three years.
Since 31 December 2002 the definition of beneficiaries under the ESOP Trust has been expanded to include employees who have been awarded 
options to acquire ordinary shares of 7
5
/
9
 pence each in Computacenter plc under the other employee share plans of the Computacenter Group, 
namely the Computacenter Services Group plc Approved Executive Share Option Plan, the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998, the 
Computacenter Services Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, the Computacenter Performance-Related Share Option Scheme 
1998, the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme and any future similar share ownership schemes.
All costs incurred by the Plan are settled directly by Computacenter (UK) Limited and charged in the accounts as incurred.
The Plan Trustees have waived the dividends receivable in respect of 1,999,249 shares (2014: 2,772,338 shares) that it owns which are all 
unallocated shares.
ii) Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust (‘the Quest’)
The total shares held are 200,462 (2014: 94,162), which represents 0.16 per cent (2014: 0.07 per cent) of the Company’s issued share capital. All of 
these shares will continue to be held by the Quest until such time as the Sharesave options granted against them are exercised. The market value 
of these shares at 31 December 2015 was £1,707 ,936 (2014: £552,260). The Quest Trustees have waived dividends in respect of all of these shares. 
During the year the Quest subscribed for nil (2014: 77 ,959) 6
2
/
3
 pence ordinary shares.
Translation and hedging reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of 
foreign subsidiaries.  The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective 
in cash flow hedges.
28 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
Executive share option scheme
During the year, options were exercised with respect to 300,000 (2014: 262,000) 6
2
/
3
 pence ordinary shares at a nominal value of £22,667 
(2014: £17 ,468) at an aggregate premium of £727 ,333 (2014: £644,492). 
Under the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998 and the Computacenter Services Group Executive Share Scheme, options in respect 
of nil (2014: nil) shares lapsed.
The numbers of shares under options outstanding at the year-end comprise:
Date of grant Exercisable between
Exercise
price
2015
Number 
outstanding
2014
Number 
outstanding
24/10/2006 24/10/2011 – 23/10/2016 250.00p – 300,000
17 /04/2007 17/04/2012 – 16/04/2017 285.00p 30,000 30,000
30,000 330,000
Please refer to the information given in the Directors’ interest in share incentive schemes table in the Annual Remuneration report on page 71 for 
details of the vesting conditions attached to the Executive share options.
 
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of share options for the Executive Share Option Scheme.
2015
No.
2015
WAEP
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
Executive share option scheme
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1
330,000 £2.53 592,000 £2.53
Exercised during the year
2
(300,000) £2.53 (262,000) £2.53
Outstanding at the end of the year 30,000 £2.56 330,000 £2.53
Exercisable at the end of the year 30,000 £2.85 330,000 £2.53
Notes
1.  Included within this balance are options over nil (2014: nil) shares that have not been accounted for under IFRS 2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options 
have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
2. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £7.25 (2014: £6.29).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2015 is 1.29 years (2014: 1.90 years).
Computacenter LTIP Performance Share Plan
Under the Computacenter LTIP Performance Share Plan, shares granted will be subject to certain performance conditions as described in the 
Annual Remuneration report.
127
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 28 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
During the year 690,807 (2014: 777 ,970) shares were awarded, 487 ,335 (2014: 87 ,897) were exercised and 597 ,887 (2014: 863,041) lapsed. 
At 31 December 2015 the number of shares outstanding was as follows:
Date of grant Maturity date
Share price at 
date of grant
2015
Number 
outstanding
2014
Number 
outstanding
17 /03/2011 17/03/2014 423.00p 2,660 4,788
23/03/2012 23/03/2015 433.00p 13,385 918,017
03/05/2013 21/03/2016 440.00p 867,525 972,648
20/03/2014 20/03/2017 682.50p 704,631 777,970
26/03/2015 26/03/2018 720.00p 690,807 –
2,279,008 2,673,423
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £6.95 (2014: £6.59).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2015 is 1.1 years (2014: 1.2 years).
Computacenter Sharesave Scheme
The Group operates a Sharesave Scheme which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Group and its subsidiaries who 
have worked for a qualifying period. All options granted under this scheme are satisfied at exercise by way of a transfer of shares from the 
Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust. During the year 1,133,397 (2014: 1,275,286) options were granted with a fair value of £946,862 
(2014: £2,182,192).
Under the scheme the following options have been granted and are outstanding at the year-end:
Date of grant Exercisable between
Share
price
2015
Number 
outstanding
2014
Number 
outstanding
October 2009 01/12/2014 – 31/05/2015 320.00p – 19,267
October 2010 01/12/2015 – 31/05/2016 258.00p 133,980 706,578
October 2011 01/12/2014 – 31/05/2015 369.00p – 52,098
October 2011 01/12/2016 – 31/05/2017 332.00p 206,709 235,685
October 2012 01/12/2015 – 31/05/2016 381.00p 39,618 216,033
October 2012 01/12/2017 – 31/05/2018 343.00p 372,024 418,773
October 2013 01/12/2016 – 31/05/2017 484.00p 361,014 405,335
October 2013 01/12/2018 – 31/05/2019 430.00p 628,671 698,530
October 2014 01/12/2017 – 31/05/2018 589.50p 372,939 428,261
October 2014 01/12/2019 – 31/05/2020 524.00p 717,448 844,616
October 2015 01/12/2018 – 31/05/2019 675.00p 373,401 –
October 2015 01/12/2020 – 31/05/2021 600.00p 751,323 –
3,957,127 4,025,176
The following table illustrates the No. and WAEP of share options for the Sharesave Scheme:
2015
No.
2015
WAEP
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
Sharesave Scheme
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,025,176 £4.23 3,292,614 £3.65
Granted during the year 1,133,397 £6.25 1,275,286 £5.46
Forfeited during the year (349,452) £4.76 (205,728) £3.96
Exercised during the year
1
(851,994) £3.00 (336,996) £3.35
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,957,127 £5.03 4,025,176 £4.23
Exercisable at the end of the year 173,598 £2.86 71,365 £3.56
Notes
1. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £7.93 (2014: £6.23).
128
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2015 is 3.4 years (2014: 3.3 years).
The fair value of the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Performance-Related Share Option Scheme, the LTIP Performance Share Plan and 
Sharesave Scheme plans are estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The following tables give the assumptions 
made during the year ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014:
2015
Nature of the arrangement
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
SAYE
scheme
SAYE
scheme
Date of grant 26/03/2015 26/03/2015 – 24/10/2015 24/10/2015
Number of instruments granted 349,939 340,868 – 374,734 758,663
Exercise price £nil £nil – £6.75 £6.00
Share price at date of grant £7.20 £7.20 – £7.40 £7.40
Contractual life (years) 3 3 – 3 5
Vesting conditions
See the Annual 
Remuneration
report included 
in the Annual 
Report and 
Accounts
See note 1
below
See note 1
below
Three-year
service period
and savings 
requirement
Five-year 
service period
and savings 
requirement
Expected volatility n/a n/a – 30.1% 33.5%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 3 3 – 3 5
Risk-free interest rate n/a n/a – 1.23% 1.23%
Dividend yield 2.64% 2.64% – 2.64% 2.64%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date £6.66 £6.66 – £1.54 £1.76
2014
Nature of the arrangement
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
SAYE
scheme
SAYE
scheme
Date of grant 20/03/2014 20/03/2014 20/03/2014 24/10/2014 24/10/2014
Number of instruments granted 404,138 360,103 13,729 430,092 845,194
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £5.895 £5.24
Share price at date of grant £6.635 £6.635 £6.635 £6.16 £6.16
Contractual life (years) 3 3 2 3 5
Vesting conditions
See the Annual 
Remuneration
report included 
in the Annual 
Report and 
Accounts
See note 1
below
See note 1
below
Three-year
service period
and savings 
requirement
Five-year 
service period
and savings 
requirement
Expected volatility n/a n/a n/a 34.2% 36.9%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 3 3 2 3 5
Risk-free interest rate n/a n/a n/a 1.87% 1.87%
Dividend yield 2.60% 2.60% 2.60% 2.95% 2.95%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date £6.14 £6.14 £6.30 £1.34 £1.90
Note
1.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2006, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS 
growth over the performance period equals 5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 7.5 per cent 
and will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 10 per cent. If the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period is between 5 
and 10 per cent, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis. The performance period usually covers a period of three years from 1 January of the year the award is granted. A limited 
number of PSP awards are granted with a performance period of two years. 
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the recent historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be 
the actual outcome.
No other features of the options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value. 
129
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 29 ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET FUNDS
At 
1 January
2015
£’000
Cash flows
in year
£’000
Non-cash
flow
£’000
Exchange
differences
£’000
At 
31 December
2015
£’000
Cash and short-term deposits 129,865 (16,113) – (1,982) 111,770
Bank overdraft (719) 584 – 45 (90)
Cash and cash equivalents 129,146 (15,529) – (1,937) 111,680
Current asset investments – 15,000 – – 15,000
Bank loans (120) 107 – 8 (5)
Other loans non-CSF (517) 517 – – –
Net funds excluding CSF 128,509 95 – (1,929) 126,675
CSF leases (6,696) 2,193 (175) 305 (4,373)
Customer specific other loans (2,616) 1,089 – – (1,514)
Total CSF (9,312) 3,282 (175) 305 (5,887)
Net funds 119,197 3,377 (175) (1,624) 120,788
At 
1 January
2014
£’000
Cash flows
in year
£’000
Non-cash
flow
£’000
Exchange
differences
£’000
At 
31 December
2014
£’000
Cash and short-term deposits 91,098 42,682 – (3,915) 129,865
Bank overdraft (764) (35) – 80 (719)
Cash and cash equivalents 90,334 42,647 – (3,835) 129,146
Bank loans (63) (61) – 4 (120)
Other loans non-CSF – (517) – – (517)
Net funds excluding CSF 90,271 42,069 – (3,831) 128,509
CSF leases (11,577) 4,983 (342) 240 (6,696)
Customer specific other loans (7,280) 4,664 – – (2,616)
Total CSF (18,857) 9,647 (342) 240 (9,312)
Net funds 71,414 51,716 (342) (3,591) 119,197
30 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 the Group held no significant commitments for capital expenditure.
31 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Group has a defined contribution pension plan, covering substantially all of its employees in the UK. The amount recognised as an expense for 
this plan is detailed in note 6. Details of the Retirement Benefit obligation for Computacenter France are given in note 24.
32 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. Transactions entered into are as 
described below:
Biomni provides the Computacenter e-procurement system used by many of Computacenter’s major customers. An annual fee has been agreed 
on a commercial basis for use of the software for each installation. Both PJ Ogden and PW Hulme are Directors of and have a material interest in 
Biomni Limited.
Triage Services Limited mainly provides IT hardware repair services to many of Computacenter’s customers. MJ Norris is a Director of and has 
a material interest in Triage Services Limited.
130
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The table below provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year:
Sales 
to related 
parties
£’000
Purchases 
from related
parties
£’000
Amounts owed 
to related
parties
£’000
Biomni Limited 10 946 29
Triage Services Limited – 43 43
10 989 72
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s-length transactions. Outstanding balances 
at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party 
receivables. The Group has not recognised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties. This assessment is 
undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
The Board of Directors is identified as the Group’s key management personnel. Please refer to the information given in the remuneration table 
in the Annual Remuneration report on page 76 for details of compensation given to the Group’s key management personnel. A summary of the 
compensation of key management personnel is provided below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,092 1,946
Social security costs 374 231
Share-based payment transactions 942 732
Pension costs 29 41
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 3,437 2,951
The interest of the key management personnel in the Group’s share incentive schemes are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration report on page 80.
131
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 3 67,721 76,221 84,721
Investment property 4 17,253 18,867 20,483
Investments 5 182,389 175,646 172,359
267,363 270,734 277,563
Current assets
Debtors 6 43,649 90,153 90,195
Cash at bank and in hand 126 68 119
43,775 90,221 90,314
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 433 51,672 129,783
Net current assets/(liabilities) 43,342 38,549 (39,469)
Total assets less current liabilities 310,705 309,283 238,094
Net assets 310,705 309,283 238,094
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9,297 9,283 9,271
Share premium account 3,830 4,597 4,362
Capital redemption reserve 74,957 74,957 74,963
Merger reserve 55,990 55,990 55,990
Own shares held (10,571) (10,760) (10,015)
Retained earnings 177,202 175,216 103,523
Shareholders’ equity 310,705 309,283 238,094
Approved by the Board on 1 1 March 2016
  
MJ Norris    FA Conophy
Chief Executive Officer  Group Finance Director
132
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital 
redemption
reserve
£’000
Merger 
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares 
held
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Total
shareholders’
equity
£’000
At 1 January 2013 9,234 3,769 74,957 55,990 (11,887) 199,706 331,769
Profit for the year – – – – – 869 869
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – 869 869
Exercise of options 28 1,194 – – 3,364 (2,324) 2,572
Share options granted to employees of 
subsidiary companies – – – – – 1,070 1,070
Bonus issue 15 (15) – – – – –
Expenses on bonus issue – (586) – – – – (586)
Redemption of shares (6) – 6 – – – –
Return of Value (RoV) – – – – – (73,115) (73,115)
Purchase of own shares – – – – (1,492) – (1,492)
Equity dividends – – – – – (22,797) (22,797)
At 31 December 2013 9,271 4,362 74,963 55,990 (10,015) 103,523 238,094
Profit for the year – – – – – 93,316 93,316
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – 93,316 93,316
Prior period corrections 6 – (6) – 695 (756) (61)
Exercise of options 6 235 – – 2,804 (965) 2,080
Purchase of own shares – – – – (2,283) – (2,283)
Share options granted to employees of 
subsidiary companies – – – – – 2,810 2,810
Shares gifted from subsidiary to ESOP – – – – (1,961) 1,961 –
Equity dividends – – – – – (24,673) (24,673)
At 31 December 2014 9,283 4,597 74,957 55,990 (10,760) 175,216 309,283
Profit for the year – – – – – 123,341 123,341
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – 123,341 123,341
Exercise of options – – – – 9,967 (4,635) 5,332
Share options granted to employees of 
subsidiary companies – – – – – 4,670 4,670
RoV – – – – – (97,916) (97,916)
Expenses on RoV – (753) – – – – (753)
Issue of B shares relating to RoV 14 (14) – – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – – – (9,778) – (9,778)
Equity dividends – – – – – (23,474) (23,474)
At 31 December 2015 9,297 3,830 74,957 55,990 (10,571) 177,202 310,705
133
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 1 AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH FRS 101 
The parent company Financial Statements of Computacenter plc (the Company) for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by 
the Board of Directors on 1 1 March 2016 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by MJ Norris and FA Conophy. Computacenter plc is a 
public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101). The 
Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention. 
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The results of Computacenter plc 
are included in the consolidated Financial Statements of Computacenter plc which are available from Computacenter plc, Hatfield Business Park, 
Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, AL10 9TW. The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Financial Statements are prepared in Sterling and are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000).
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 from previously extant UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented. Transition 
details showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 10. The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under 
FRS 101:
(a) the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based Payment, 
(b)   the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(d), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j) to B64(m), B64(n)(ii), B64 (o)(ii), B64(p), B64(q)(ii), B66 and B67 of 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations, 
(c)  the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, 
(e)  the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement,
(f)  the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of: 
 (i)  paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1; 
 (ii)  paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment; 
 (iii)  paragraph 1 18(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets; 
 (iv)  paragraphs 76 and 79(d) of IAS 40 Investment Property; and 
 (v)  paragraph 50 of IAS 41 Agriculture. 
(g)  the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 39(c) and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements; 
(h)  the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows; 
(i)  the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; 
(j)  the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures; 
(k)   the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a 
group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; and 
(l)  the requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. 
The basis for all of the above exemptions is because equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated Financial Statements of the Group in 
which the entity is consolidated.
Intellectual property
Licences purchased in respect of intellectual property are capitalised, classified as an intangible asset on the balance sheet and amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the licence, normally 20 years.
Depreciation of fixed assets
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on all other tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated 
residual value, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Investment property
Investment property is defined as land and/or buildings held by the Company to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, rather than 
for sale in the ordinary course of business or for use in supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. The Company recognises any 
part of an owned (or leased under a finance lease) property that is leased to third-parties as investment property, unless it represents an 
insignificant portion of the property. 
Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company elected to measure 
investment property at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any (i.e. applying the same accounting policies 
(including useful lives) as for property, plant and equipment). The fair values, which reflect the market conditions at the balance sheet date, are 
disclosed in note 4.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment. 
134
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Impairment of assets
The carrying values of assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be 
recoverable.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Share-based payment transactions
The accounting policy in relation to share-based payment transactions is disclosed in full in the consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to 
that, the financial effect of awards by the Company of options over its equity shares to employees of subsidiary undertakings are recognised by the 
Company in its individual Financial Statements as an increase in its investment in subsidiaries with a credit to equity equivalent to the IFRS 2 cost in 
subsidiary undertakings.
On transition to IFRS, the Group did not apply the measurement rules of IFRS 2 to equity settled awards granted before 7 November 2002 or granted 
after that date and vested before 1 January 2005. However later modifications of such equity instruments are measured under IFRS 2.
Taxation
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current tax rate. Where Group relief is surrendered from other subsidiaries in the 
Group, the Company is required to pay to the surrendering company an amount equal to the loss surrendered multiplied by the current tax rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions 
or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which timing differences reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
 
Own shares held
Shares in the Company held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘own shares held’ and are recognised at cost. Consideration 
received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being 
taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity 
shares.
3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intellectual 
property
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014, 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 169,737
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 85,016
Charge in the year 8,500
At 31 December 2014 93,516
Charge in the year 8,500
At 31 December 2015 102,016
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 67,721
At 31 December 2014 76,221
At 1 January 2014 84,721
135
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 4 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Freehold land 
and buildings
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014, 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 42,350
Depreciation
At 1 January 2014 21,867
Charge in the year 1,616
At 31 December 2014 23,483
Charge in the year 1,614
At 31 December 2015 25,097
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 17,253
At 31 December 2014 18,867
At 1 January 2014 20,483
Investment property represents a building owned by the Company that is leased to Computacenter (UK) Ltd a fully owned subsidiary of the 
Company. 
The fair value of investment property amounted to £36.5 million at 31 December 2015 (£34.7 million at 31 December 2014, £33 million at 1 January 
2014). The fair values for disclosure purposes have been determined using either the support of qualified independent external valuers or by 
internal valuers with the necessary recognised and relevant professional qualification, applying a combination of the present value of future cash 
flows and observable market values of comparable properties.
5 INVESTMENTS
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£’000
Loans to 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£’000
Investment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 261,329 2,754 25 264,108
Additions 31,742 – – 31,742
Share-based payments 2,810 – – 2,810
At 31 December 2014 295,881 2,754 25 298,660
Additions 2,073 – – 2,073
Share-based payments 4,670 – – 4,670
At 31 December 2015 302,624 2,754 25 305,403
Amounts provided
At 1 January 2014 88,970 2,754 25 91,749
Provided during the year 31,265 – – 31,265
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 120,235 2,754 25 123,014
 
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 182,389 – – 182,389
At 31 December 2014 175,646 – – 175,646
At 1 January 2014 172,359 – – 172,359
Details of the principal investments at 31 December in which the Company holds more than 20 per cent of the nominal value of ordinary share 
capital are given in the Group accounts in note 16.
136
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 6 DEBTORS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amount owed by subsidiary undertaking 43,502 90,000 90,000
Other debtors 127 128 165
Deferred tax 20 25 30
43,649 90,153 90,195
7 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amount owed to subsidiary undertaking – 49,474 127,618
Accruals – 1,591 1,786
Deferred income – – 31
Corporation tax 433 607 348
433 51,672 129,783
8 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has given a guarantee in the normal course of business to suppliers of subsidiaries undertaking for an amount not exceeding
£58.2 million (2014: £7 .9 million).
The Company has provided cross guarantees in respect of certain bank loans and overdrafts of its subsidiary undertakings. The amount 
outstanding at 31 December 2015 is £0.1 million (2014: £0.7 million).
9 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
All Auditor’s remuneration is borne by Computacenter (UK) Ltd, a fully-owned UK subsidiary of the Company.
10 TRANSITION TO FRS 101
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company prepared its Financial Statements in accordance with previously 
extant United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). These Financial Statements, for the year ended 31 December 2015, are 
the first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 101.
Accordingly, the Company has prepared individual Financial Statements which comply with FRS 101 applicable for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014 and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in the relevant notes. 
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the Company’s date 
of transition to FRS 101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first time adoption of FRS 101. 
As such, this note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance sheet as at 1 January 2013 prepared under 
previously extant UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-13 of IFRS 1 ‘first time adoption of international financial 
reporting standards.’ 
Exemptions applied 
IFRS 1 allows first time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirements to apply IFRSs as effective for December 2015 year ends 
retrospectively. The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions:
Share-based payments
IFRS 2 Share-based payment has not been applied to any equity instrument that were granted on or before 7 November 2002, nor has it been 
applied to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that vested before 1 January 2005. This treatment is consistent with the transitional 
provisions taken when the Company adopted FRS 20, the UK equivalent standard.
137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 10 TRANSITION TO FRS 101 CONTINUED
Merger accounting and the merger reserve
Prior to 1 January 2013, certain significant business combinations were accounted for using the ‘pooling of interests method’ (or merger 
accounting), which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined throughout the current and comparative accounting periods. Merger 
accounting principles for these combinations gave rise to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial position, being the 
difference between the nominal value of new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of the shares of the subsidiary and the 
subsidiary’s own share capital and share premium account. These transactions have not been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional 
arrangements. 
The merger reserve is also used where more than 90 per cent of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of 
new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006.
Reconciliation from UK GAAP to FRS 101
Investment property
Property, plant and equipment, which represented, freehold land and building has been reclassified to investment property in line with IAS 40 on 
transition to FRS 101. The freehold land and building are leased to Computacenter (UK) Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of the Company. Under 
SSAP 19 (old UK GAAP), there was an exemption available to treat properties let to and occupied by Group entities as property, plant and equipment, 
however it is not allowed under IAS 40.
There were no other transitional adjustments recorded.
11 DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES
Dividends are paid from the standalone balance sheet of Computacenter plc, and as at 31 December 2015, the distributable reserves are 
approximately £166.7 million.
DISCLAIMER - FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This Annual Report and Accounts includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, ‘forward-looking statements’. These forward-looking 
statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’, 
‘may’, ‘plans’, ‘projects’, ‘should’ or ‘will’, or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, 
plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions. These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts. They 
appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and Accounts and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups’ 
intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, amongst other things, results of operations, prospects, growth, strategies and expectations 
of its respective businesses.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. Forward-looking 
statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results of the Group’s operations and the development of the markets and 
the industry in which they operate or are likely to operate and their respective operations may differ materially from those described in, or 
suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and Accounts. In addition, even if the results of operations and the 
development of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this 
Annual Report and Accounts, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods. A number of 
factors could cause results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, 
without limitation, those risks in the risk factor section of the 2015 Computacenter Annual Report and Accounts, as well as general economic and 
business conditions, industry trends, competition, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations or advancements in research and development.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and may, and often do, differ materially from actual 
results. Any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts reflect the Group’s current view with respect to future events and are 
subject to risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Group’s operations, results of operations 
and growth strategy.
Neither Computacenter plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertakes any obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect actual results 
or any change in events, conditions or assumptions or other factors unless otherwise required by applicable law or regulation.
138
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 GROUP FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW
Including RDC 
2011
£’000
Including RDC 
2012
£’000
Including RDC 
2013
£’000
Including RDC 
2014
£’000
Excluding RDC 
2014
£’000
Excluding RDC 
2015
£’000
Adjusted revenue
1
2,852.3 2,914.2 3,072.1 3,107.8 3,063.3 3,054.2
Adjusted operating profit
1
72.5 79.1 82.2 86.1 80.7 87.1
Adjusted profit before tax
1
74.2 79.3 81.7 85.9 81.1 86.9
Statutory profit for the year 61.0 49.1 33.2 55.1 50.3 103.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
37.4p 40.8p 43.3p 46.8p 44.1p 53.4p
Net cash excluding CSF 136.8 147.3 90.3 128.5 128.0 126.7
Year-end headcount 11,626 12,627 12,703 13,175 12,959 12,993
Note: The 201 1-2014 results above are as previously reported in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. In addition, 2014 has been represented 
excluding RDC in line with 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
GROUP SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET
2011
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
Tangible assets 98.3 100.7 89.0 79.9 57.1
Investment property – – – – 10.3
Intangible assets 104.2 104.6 98.9 90.3 81.5
Investment in associate 0.5 0.6 – – –
Deferred tax asset 15.9 14.4 15.2 15.1 12.8
Inventories 97.4 67.8 58.6 50.0 45.7
Trade and other receivables 549.0 573.7 667.7 695.9 621.8
Prepayments and accrued income 90.1 104.2 114.8 103.6 106.5
Forward currency contracts (0.2) (0.6) (2.4) 2.4 2.2
Current asset investment 10.0 10.0 – – 15.0
Cash 128.4 138.1 91.1 129.9 111.8
Current liabilities (665.9) (673.3) (745.3) (768.5) (695.9)
Non-current liabilities (24.0) (17.9) (22.9) (13.2) (7.3)
Net assets 403.7 422.3 364.7 385.4 361.5
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Title Date
Second interim dividend record date 24 March 2016
Second interim dividend payment date 5 April 2016
AGM 19 May 2016
Interim results announcement 26 August 2016
GROUP SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET 
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 
AS AT 31 DECEMBER
139
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
GROUP FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Greg Lock (Non-Executive Chairman)
Mike Norris (Chief Executive Officer)
Tony Conophy (Group Finance Director)
Philip Yea (Senior Independent Director)
Philip Hulme (Non-Executive Director)
Peter Ogden (Non-Executive Director)
Minnow Powell (Non-Executive Director)
Regine Stachelhaus (Non-Executive Director)
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Barclays Bank plc
PO Box 544
54 Lombard Street
London
EC3V 9EX
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 845 755 5555
AUDITOR
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 731 1 1000 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Simon Pereira
REGISTERED OFFICE
Hatfield Avenue
Hatfield
Hertfordshire
AL10 9TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000
STOCKBROKERS AND INVESTMENT BANKERS
Credit Suisse
One Cabot Square
London
E14 4QJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7888 8888
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7597 4000
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER OFFICE
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 871 384 2074
(Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras)
SOLICITORS
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London
EC2Y 8HQ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7456 2000
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
3110569
INTERNET ADDRESS
Computacenter Group
www.computacenter.com
140
CORPORATE INFORMATION UK AND GROUP HEADQUARTERS
Computacenter
Hatfield Avenue
Hatfield
Hertfordshire
AL10 9TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000
BELGIUM
Computacenter NV/SA
Ikaroslaan 31
B-1930 Zaventem
Belgium
Tel: +32 (0) 2 704 941 1
FRANCE 
Computacenter France SAS
Agence de Roissy
229 rue de la Belle Étoile
ZI Paris Nord II
BP 52387
95943 Roissy CDG Cedex
France
Tel: +33 (0) 1 48 17 41 00
GERMANY
Computacenter AG & Co. oHG
Europaring 34-40
50170 Kerpen
Germany
Tel: +49 (0) 22 73 / 5 97 0
HUNGARY
Computacenter Services Kft
Haller Gardens, Building D. 1st Floor
Soroksári út 30-34
Budapest 1095 
Hungary
Tel: +36 1 777 7488
LUXEMBOURG
Computacenter PSF SA 
13-15 Parc d’activités 
8308 Capellen 
Luxembourg
Tel: +352 (0) 26 29 1 1
MALAYSIA
Computacenter Services (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
Level 9, Tower 1 
Puchong Financial Corporate Centre
Jalan Puteri 1/2, Bandar Puteri 
47100 Puchong
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Tel: +603 7724 9626
NETHERLANDS
Computacenter N.V.
Beech Avenue 54-80
1119 PW, Schiphol-Rijk
The Netherlands
Tel: +31 (0) 20 658 6800
SOUTH AFRICA
Computacenter Services and Solutions (PTY) Ltd 
Building 1
Parc du Cap
Mispel Road
Bellville, 7535
Cape Town
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0) 21 957 4900
SPAIN
Computacenter Services (Iberia) S.L.U.
C/Balmes 236
08006 Barcelona
Spain
Tel: +34 936 207 000
SWITZERLAND
Computacenter AG  
Riedstrasse 14
CH-8953 Dietikon
Switzerland
Tel: +41 (0) 43 322 40 80
Design and production:
Gather
+44 (0) 20 7610 6140
www.gather.london
Printed on FSC
®
 certified paper by an EMAS certified printing company, its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil 
based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any 
waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Edixion 
Offset, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible,  
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental 
chlorine free (ECF) process.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
141
PRINCIPAL OFFICES  Enabling users and their business
Computacenter is Europe’s leading independent provider of IT infrastructure 
services, enabling users and their business. We advise organisations  
on IT strategy, implement the most appropriate technology, optimise its 
performance, and manage our customers’ infrastructures. In doing this we help 
CIOs and IT departments in enterprise and corporate organisations maximise 
productivity and the business value of IT for internal and external users.
Computacenter plc
Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9TW, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000
www.computacenter.com
E&OE. All trademarks acknowledged.
© 2016 Computacenter.
All rights reserved.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
