  Bringing people and  
property together
 C ou nt r y w id e p lc Annual Report 2015
 C ou nt r y w id e p lc Annual Report 2015 We have unparalleled coverage of the UK 
property market and are uniquely placed to 
support our customers across the residential 
and commercial property markets. 
Through our unique combination of national scale and local reach, we offer a breadth of 
products and services across the Group, providing all our customers with a comprehensive 
range of solutions to meet their individual property needs. We are proud of our position,  
have achieved great success and are on course now to deliver our bold ambition for growth 
with our Building our Future strategy.
No.1
the largest property 
services group
12,000+
employees across the UK
1,200+
locations across a network 
of over 55 brands
WHAT WE’VE ACHIEVED
Market-leading positions and a strong platform for growth:
£ 1 2.2 billion 
of mortgages completed.  
Largest single mortgage  
broker in the UK
 £1 9.0 billion 
worth of property sold –  
more homes in the UK  
than anyone else
SOLD
74,500 
properties under 
management. Largest player  
in a fragmented market Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 01
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Highlights
View our website:
www.countrywide.co.uk
Strategic report
01 Highlights
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s review
05 Chief executive’s review
07 Building our Future
10 Our strategy
14 How we run our business
16 Our markets
18 Risk and risk management
24 Segmental review
 24 Retail
 26 London
 28 Financial Services
 30 B2B
33 Group financial review
36 Corporate sustainability
Corporate governance
41 Chairman’s introduction 
to corporate governance
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance statement 
46 Report of the Nomination Committee
48 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
54 Directors’ remuneration report
67 Directors’ report
70 Directors’ responsibilities statement
Financial statements
72 Independent auditor’s report
77 Consolidated income statement
78 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
79 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
80 Consolidated balance sheet
81 Consolidated cash flow statement 
82 Notes to the financial statements
121 Independent auditor’s report
123 Company balance sheet
124 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
128 Appendix
131 Company information
132 Forward-looking statements
133 Awards
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
• 
Group income up 4% to £733.7 million with decline in estate agency and 
lettings profitability resulting in EBITDA reducing 7% to £113.0 million
• 
Market-beating performance from financial services and surveying
• 
Encouraging progress in commercial
• 
Consolidation in lettings with investment in acquisitions and core platform
• 
Challenging sales market as pace of change created some disruption 
in estate agency
• 
Resilient performance in London
• 
Value of diversification evident by performance across the portfolio
• 
Final dividend held at 10.0 pence per share 
• 
Proceeds of £19.1 million from part disposal of Zoopla holding to be returned 
to shareholders by way of a share buyback programme
• 
New banking facilities agreed (£340 million RCF) to provide greater flexibility 
on timing of investments
1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items, contingent consideration, share-based payments 
and share of profits from joint venture, referred to hereafter as ‘EBITDA’.
2  Adjusted earnings is calculated on profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
contingent consideration and share-based payments (net of taxation).
Total income (£m)
733.7
+4%
584.8
2013
702.2
2014
733.7
2015
Operating profit (£m)
53.8
-37%
56.0
2013
84.9
2014
53.8
2015
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m)
113.0
-7%
86.6
2013
121.1
2014
113.0
2015
Adjusted basic EPS
2
 (£m)
32.2
-12%
24.4
2013
36.7
2014
32.2
2015
Mixed performance in line with expectations 
with momentum building into 2016. Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 02
Strategic report
At a glance
OUR BREADTH OF OFFERING
We cover all areas of the UK property market – residential and commercial
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY 
CONSULTANCY
With 33 offices and 1,400 employees,  
Lambert Smith Hampton is one of the largest 
commercial property consultancies in the UK.
ASSET MANAGEMENT
We managed the sale of over 3,400 
residential properties on behalf of 
corporate clients in 2015.
ESTATE MANAGEMENT
We offer an array of specialist 
property services to clients 
to meet their individual needs. 
FINANCIAL SERVICES
As the UK’s third largest mortgage 
distributor we arranged 1 in 16 of all 
mortgages arranged in the UK in 2015. 
CONVEYANCING SERVICES
We are one of the UK’s largest 
transactional conveyancers and work  
with some of the largest conveyancers  
in the UK. 
AUCTIONS
As one of the country’s leading property 
auctioneers we sell residential, commercial, 
industrial, agricultural properties and land 
by auction.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY FUND
We have partnered with Hermes 
Investment Management to create the 
pre-eminent residential property fund. 
LETTINGS
As the UK’s largest letting agent we  
have a network of over 600 branches 
throughout England, Scotland and Wales. 
SALES
We are an award winning estate agent 
with over 900 branches operating 
throughout the UK.  
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT 
SOLUTIONS
We are the UK’s largest land and new 
homes agency selling over 5,100 new 
home units in 2015. 
SURVEYING SERVICES
We are one of the UK’s largest 
employers of residential surveyors 
and valuers in the UK and an 
appointed valuer to all major lenders. 
Read how we run  
our business page 14 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
03
GEOGRAPHICAL RANGE – RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
We operate across the UK residential property market and focus on having the 
right brand in the right location to reach all our customers across all price points.
42
branches  
in Scotland
125
branches in
the Midlands
165
branches
in the North
148
branches in
South West
43
branches  
in Wales
173
branches in 
South East
126
branches  
in the East
33
commercial  
offices in the UK  
and Ireland
Network of over
55
brands 
LONDON
The London division incorporates  
a number of key Countrywide brands, 
including Hamptons International  
and John D Wood & Co.
Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc
Belfast 
commercial  
office
Dublin 
commercial  
office
279
branches  
in London
M25
Branch numbers as at 31 December 2015. Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 04
Strategic report
Chairman’s review
In my second and final term as chairman 
of the Group, I am reporting following a 
significantly tougher year both for the market 
and Countrywide. 2015 was an uncertain 
year and we know that uncertainty does 
not breed confidence, a necessary factor 
to provide stimulus to the UK housing 
transaction market. The May general 
election was the most uncertain election 
in a generation and the anticipated 
post-election boost never materialised.
2015 results delivered income growth of 
4% to £733.7 million but EBITDA fell to 
£113.0 million. While lower than 2014’s 
performance, with poorer results in sales 
and lettings, these figures highlight the 
benefits we continue to derive from our 
broadly based diversification strategy with 
42% of Group EBITDA being delivered from 
Lettings and Commercial, our key recurring 
revenue streams. Other contributors to 
growth were our Financial Services and 
Surveying teams, two areas of the business 
which outperformed the market in 2015. 
In 2015, we confirmed that there would be 
no change to the underlying dividend policy 
which would target a payout ratio of 35–45% 
of the annual reported Group profits after 
tax but before amortisation. In recent years, 
the Group has paid 40% and I can confirm 
that the 2015 cash payment will be held at 
the previous year’s level. In February 2016, 
we sold 8,659,302 Zoopla shares realising 
£19.1 million which will be returned to 
shareholders by way of a share buyback 
programme. We continue to hold 9,234,473 
Zoopla ordinary shares. The Board has the 
potential to re-introduce special dividends 
from 2017. 
As announced on 11 February 2016, 
I am pleased that Peter Long will take over 
as non-executive chairman following the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting on 
27 April 2016. I am proud of my tenure at 
Countrywide and it was always my intention 
to only remain as chairman for a period of 
two years. I believe the time is now right to 
depart, with the arrival of Peter who brings 
a strong customer focus and a wealth of plc 
board experience, which will complement the 
Board’ s expertise and add value to Countrywide 
as it delivers its customer-centric strategy.
As noted in our January 2016 Trading 
Update, the Group achieved an encouraging 
performance in Q4 of 2015. While it is too 
early to accurately predict how the residential 
transactions market will perform in 2016, 
trends are encouraging with momentum 
building and strong pipelines. At this stage 
in the year, I am confident that the Group 
is in a good position to deliver in line with 
the Board’s expectations.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
25 February 2016
IN SUMMARY
• 
Significant period of change in the market 
and our business
• 
New management and divisional structure in 
place with four business units focused around the 
customer (Retail, London, Financial Services, B2B)
• 
Proactive action taken on cost while protecting 
key investments
• 
Clear strategic vision communicated 
to the business
Confident in the Group’s position  
to deliver in 2016 following a 
transformative year in 2015  Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 05
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Chief executive’s review
Market 2015
It has been an uncertain year for the UK 
property market and all the stakeholders it 
impacts. Our sector has seen another year 
of record low interest rates, a housing market 
very short of supply and a step up in tax 
changes impacting both the higher priced 
home and second home markets negatively. 
Market data available for 2015 highlights 
the impact of changing dynamics in the 
residential property market, with transaction 
levels across the country running lower than 
the previous year. Market volumes for 2015 
are expected to be 3–4% below 2014 
and in the region of 970,000–980,000 
transactions at year end, which is still far short 
of a normalised run rate by historic standards. 
The negative trend in mortgage approvals at 
the end of 2014 impacted transaction levels 
in the first half of 2015 which, together with 
the potential uncertainty over the outcome 
of the general election in May, created 
sluggishness in market trends during the 
first half of 2015, as both buyers and 
sellers delayed decisions to move. Further, 
the anticipated bounce in the second half of 
the year following the outcome of the most 
uncertain general election in a generation 
failed to materialise as consumer confidence 
remained fragile. This manifested most acutely 
in a lack of stock as the number of properties 
coming to the market ran significantly below 
last year. That pressure on market volumes 
continued throughout 2015. 
While the aspiration towards home 
ownership remains a core part of the UK 
consumer landscape, the property market 
continues to evolve to reflect changing 
consumer priorities. This is particularly 
evident in the growth of the private rented 
housing market, where demand remains 
strong. Although throughout 2015, tenants 
also showed a lower propensity to move with 
average tenures extending to 17.1 months 
up from 15.5 months in 2012.
Our performance 
The challenging market in sales impacted 
our performance and this, coupled with 
the significant change agenda we’ve 
driven, resulted in a tough year for our 
Retail Sales division.
Our London sales business showed 
tremendous resilience though and, despite 
operating in the market which saw the most 
acute impact from changes to stamp duty, 
grew its market share and revenues.
Our Lettings business in London also grew 
whilst our decision to invest further for the 
future in core systems, people and service 
slowed, for now, the rate of growth in our 
Retail Lettings business across the rest of 
the UK. 
Encouragingly, we delivered exceptionally 
strong performance in both Financial Services 
and Surveying as they outperformed the 
markets. Another strong year in our Commercial 
business saw profits grow in both the core 
and acquired businesses. The balance of 
recurring revenues in that business reached 
70%, a pleasing achievement as we seek 
to limit volatility in both our residential and 
commercial revenue streams. 
2015 was a transformative year for the Group 
and set us on the right path to achieve our 
ambitious goals for 2020. Through our people, 
we set our Building our Future strategy 
and continued our successful acquisition 
programme, while providing resilience for 
the Group’s future through investment in 
transformation, people capability and risk 
management. We also focused on creating 
industry-leading capabilities in research and 
analytics to capitalise on the value of our 
unique data and insight into the market 
through our unparalleled national footprint. 
IN SUMMARY
• 
Fragile consumer confidence in the housing market 
• 
Focus on execution, regaining and growing market 
share and accelerating proposition improvements, 
including multichannel
• 
Growth in core lettings business, building on 
improvements in service
• 
Driving value from early progress in financial 
services, valuations and commercial 
Foundations in place for future 
resilience and growth
Our markets page 16 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 06
Strategic report
Chief executive’s review continued
Diversified business continues  
to provide resilience.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Our performance continued
2015 also saw us complete the most 
significant customer research programme 
Countrywide has ever undertaken, involving 
more than 3,000 customers across sales 
and lettings. The insight from that research 
coupled with our data has informed our new 
propositions and service offerings, which will 
be trialled across three of our brands in the 
second quarter of 2016. These propositions 
will reflect our customers’ desire to use multiple 
channels (online, telephone and branch 
network) and use enabling technology whilst 
accessing the experience and expertise that 
our UK-wide network of people bring. 
Core to delivery of our new multichannel 
propositions will be the development of our 
digital capabilities, organically and through 
investments and partnerships. 
To date in 2016, we have made investments 
in innovative proptech firms focused on 
improving customer experience. We are the 
lead strategic partner with Fixflo, the leading 
24/7 property repair reporting system, and 
have also taken a significant minority stake 
in an early stage start-up platform in the 
self-serve lettings market.
Hand in hand with investing to grow our 
business organically, our approach to 
acquisitions remains in line with our strategy. 
Our focus has been to strengthen our presence 
in strategic locations across the UK and we 
remain committed to delivery of our target 
hurdles and returns. In 2015, we acquired 
30 lettings businesses, including some key 
targets in Liverpool, York and Bristol. This 
focus on key cities will continue in 2016. 
2016 – year of execution
2016 is all about execution as we begin 
to realise the benefits of our strategy. 
Diversification of our business model will 
continue as we increase resilience across 
residential and commercial. Operating Retail 
as a single structure for core sales and lettings 
is building momentum with encouraging signs 
as we enter 2016 with a growing pipeline in 
sales, improving conversion rates and rising 
landlord retention. Our focus now is on 
capitalising on this fast start to 2016, ensuring 
we take advantage of early strong winds in 
the market.
We believe we are superbly placed to 
capitalise on a mortgage market that is shifting 
further toward an intermediary model, with 
expectations that more than 70% of the total 
mortgages written in 2016 will be brokered. 
Our 600+ field force of mortgage consultants 
are targeted to deliver record performance 
driven by improved lead management, better 
data utilisation and a new front-end operating 
system, which is being rolled out as we 
enter 2016. 
Our relationships with our main partners 
remain core to our strategy. The high street 
banks view us as the distributors for their 
mortgage products but also their partner in 
risk management through valuations. Equally 
key are developers and house builders and 
the creation of Countrywide Residential 
Development Solutions has given us a 
platform through which to grow in the new 
homes space. We expect to add capability 
here through acquisition as we seek to 
expand in this critical area. 
Outlook
We continue to be prudent in our assumptions 
for growth in the residential housing market 
in 2016 and our focus will be driving our 
own growth through regaining share and 
attracting new customers through better 
propositions. We remain of the view that 
the drivers of demand for the private rental 
sector remain strong and will drive further 
growth. The impact of the increased tax 
burden for buy-to-let landlords and second 
home owners has yet to play out in the market, 
but in a low interest rate environment, yields 
in the buy-to-let sector, particularly outside 
London, remain attractive. Enabling institutional 
investment to create high quality built-to-rent 
stock remains high on our agenda, and our 
residential investment fund, in partnership 
with Hermes Investment Management, goes 
from strength to strength with schemes in 
Manchester and Liverpool now exchanged 
and a second round of fundraising underway.
We are confident that our relentless focus on 
delivering our purpose of putting people and 
property together will yield strong progress 
in 2016 and there is no change to our current 
financial outlook for 2016. The market’ s volatility 
is unlikely to subside in 2016, so navigating 
external challenges while delivering a first 
class service for our customers will be crucial. 
Our ambition to be the most recommended 
company in the property sector is clear and 
embraced by all colleagues across the Group. 
We look forward to building on the early 
momentum evident at the beginning of 2016 
as we create a strong and thriving business 
delivering enduring returns for our shareholders, 
customers and colleagues alike.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
25 February 2016
This strategic report was approved by the 
Board of directors on 25 February 2016 
and signed on its behalf by: Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Read more on pages 08 to 15 Strategic report
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 08
Building our Future
OUR PURPOSE
Bringing people and 
property together
We have a clear purpose, guided by our 
vision and supported by our values.
We embarked on our Building our Future strategy as we 
recognised that there was a real opportunity for us to become 
the first choice for customers and, that by being their first 
choice, we can take this business to a brilliant future and 
change the face of the sector.
Bringing 
people and 
property 
together
STRAIGHTFORWARD
RESPONSIBLE
PERSONAL
PASSIONATE
 OUR FOUNDATIONS
HOW WE RUN OUR BUSINESS
OUR CUSTOMERS
OUR PORTFOLIO
OUR PEOPLE
Bringing 
people and 
property 
together Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 09
OUR VALUES
Personal
We are a people business. 
We care about our customers 
and each other. We have fun.
Straightforward
We keep it simple, dealing with 
the complicated things so our 
customers don’t have to.
Passionate
We love working with property 
and we work hard, knowing 
what we do really matters.
HOW WE RUN 
OUR BUSINESS
Four customer-centric business units, combining local brands 
with a national operating model to support customers through 
their end-to-end property journey. We are investing in core 
capabilities, including IT, talent management, risk management 
and data and analytics to ensure we have the foundations 
to be able to move at pace.
How we run our business page 14
OUR STRATEGY
Our intent is to increase our resilience to the sales cycle 
volatility and broaden the Group’s business to deliver a strong 
future and sustainable long term value for our shareholders.
Our strategy page 10
Responsible
We do the right thing. We listen, 
take time to understand and 
always tell the truth.
OUR VISION
Recommended
more than any other company 
in the property sector.
1
Recognised
as one of the best places to work 
in the UK.
2
Transforming
the reputation of our industry.
3
Celebrated
for excellent sustainable 
financial performance.
4 Strategic report
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 10
In 2015 we completed a fundamental review of our strategy, analysing our markets, our performance and our 
customers, to define where and how we will win in the future. As a result we are focused on three key areas:
• 
delivering a better, more personalised customer experience;
• 
creating an internal environment for great people to flourish; and
• 
aligning our portfolio to where the growth is.
From 2015 To 2020
Our portfolio
Our people
Our customers
• 
Pockets of brilliance in customer 
service
• 
Business processes that work for  
us but not always our customers
• 
People attrition levels in line with industry 
norms (high across the industry)
• 
Engaged customer-facing people, but 
challenges around ‘tools to do the job’
• 
Largest, most diversified UK property 
company, operating in residential and 
commercial markets
• 
The most recommended company  
in the property sector
• 
Differentiation through the quality  
of our people and our multichannel 
experience to deliver personal 
connection, convenience and 
tailored customer journeys
• 
Recognised as one of the best places 
to work in the UK
• 
Training and professional development 
that is the envy of the industry
• 
High performance culture
• 
Double the size of the business 
• 
Increased resilience to residential 
transaction market cycles (with c.50% 
from Commercial and Lettings)
• 
Aligned to the demand-side drivers 
of future growth
Our strategy
Evidence from our top performing branches already demonstrates how a great experience for our  
customers and our people drives commercial success.
For example, analysis across our 2015 network showed that the top 10% of branches (compared  
to Countrywide average):
• 
achieved >10% market share growth and were more profitable;
• 
had the best Net Promoter Scores and 40% fewer vendor withdrawals; and
• 
were driven by 2x people retention and 40% longer average tenure.
These top 10% performing branches were across brand, region and price point, demonstrating the  
huge opportunity for us to share best practices to create lasting differentiation from competitors. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 11
Our customers
Our 2020 ambition to be ‘the most recommended company in the property 
sector’ means putting customers at the heart of our business. In 2015, we carried 
out our largest piece of customer research ever (>3000 people) to identify their 
unfulfilled needs and sharpen our customer segmentation – this insight will be the 
foundation for everything we do as we centre the business around our customers.
Trust, reliability, efficient communication, personal 
connection – the same core needs are common across 
customer segments, and the industry as a whole is not 
delivering consistently. We will be known for delivering 
what we say we will. We are investing in our recruitment 
model, our training, and our IT infrastructure to deliver 
a better customer experience across all our channels. 
Our breadth of services provides a strong platform 
to support customers throughout their whole property 
journey. It is essential we deliver great communications 
at key handover points as they avail of services across 
the Group during their property journey.
Customer expectations for digital solutions are set by 
leaders outside of our sector. The future is not a binary 
choice between online and offline – success requires 
multichannel enablement and human support with the 
customer at the centre. We stepped up our investment 
in developing new digital features which will go live in 
2016. Our strategic ventures group has identified key 
investment/partnership opportunities for us which will 
be announced in 2016. 
Property transactions are often complicated and emotional 
journeys, and all customers are different. We need to better 
understand each customer at the start of their journey so 
that our services and engagement style match their needs. 
We will tailor the journey to give customers more choice 
– choice of product, choice around how they interact 
with us, and choice in where they value support and 
where they want to take more control themselves.
In a competitive marketplace, the reputation of our people 
and our brands is what drives customers to choose us ahead 
of others to partner with them in their property journey. 
We are rolling out Net Promoter Score (NPS) at branch, 
regional and business unit level, which is core to how we 
manage and reward our people. We are already seeing an 
upward trend in business areas where NPS is established. 
Personalise our 
customers’ journey
Measure the  
right things
2
4
Deliver what we say  
we are going to do
Differentiate in 
multichannel offering
1
3
Customers at the heart 
of our business Strategic report
Our people
Great people plus a great environment will deliver a world-class experience  
for our customers.
It is only by investing in our people and ensuring they have the right tools 
to do their jobs in a safe, positive and developmental environment that  
we can be recognised as one of the best places to work in the UK.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 12
Our strategy continued
To be the most recommended company 
in the property sector, our people need to 
be connected to our purpose, be inspired 
to be the best they can be, and feel valued, 
engaged and committed to providing a 
brilliant and personalised customer experience. 
To expect this of our people they need to have 
a great experience from the moment they 
consider joining Countrywide and throughout 
their career with us. From recruitment to 
onboarding to training, we will engage our 
people at every single touchpoint of this 
journey to communicate our values, deepen 
their understanding of customer needs and 
set expectations of excellence.
Great people only flourish with great leaders. 
To enable our leaders to be effective, we held 
a series of events with our top 100 leaders 
in November and December 2015 to provide 
them with the tools and techniques to lead 
their teams, focusing on driving performance.
In 2016, we have plans to roll out the 
programme to the wider leadership team  
to enable a consistent approach to 
performance management. 
New apprenticeship and graduate recruitment 
schemes are in place across the Group 
with particularly successful programmes 
in surveying and conveyancing, alongside 
City & Guilds accredited training for employees 
within our retail operations. This includes 
the opportunity of sponsorship to achieve 
recognised professional qualifications that 
are relevant to our sector. We provide full 
visibility of who we are and expertise we 
have through our online Register of Property 
Agents (www.agencypro.co.uk). The Register 
provides assurance that our people meet 
the requisite standards of professionalism 
that our customers will expect when we 
advise them.
Read more on our sustainability  
page 36
Our great people
1
Developing a high 
performance culture 
2
Developing and 
training our talent 
3 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Our portfolio
Our growth agenda is aligned with demand-side trends, addresses areas  
where we are under-represented and reduces cyclical exposure to UK  
residential property sales.
13
Our goal is to double the size of the business by 2020, by focusing on:
Grow existing customer value 
• 
We are the UK’s largest single 
mortgage broker
• 
There is a huge opportunity for us to fulfil 
potential value of our existing customer 
base, particularly in remortgages
• 
Financial Services is one of the main ways 
we can maintain a customer relationship 
between transactions, growing customer 
lifetime value
Capitalise on Countrywide Residential 
Development Solutions 
(CWRDS) opportunities
• 
Recognised need for new homes and 
Government drive to build c.250k new 
homes per year
• 
There are few genuinely vertically 
integrated players in the land and 
new homes space
• 
We have expertise from land sourcing, 
planning and valuation support, through 
to downstream sales, lettings handover 
and property management 
Become a top five UK player 
• 
The market is likely to consolidate and 
we have a strong platform offering ideal 
opportunities for growth
• 
Strengthening Commercial increases 
our mix of recurring revenues
• 
Synergies with residential, especially 
in CWRDS
Become market leader 
• 
In sales, we are no.1 in upper and lower 
bands, but no.2 in £350k–£1 million  
(largest market segment)
• 
London is 21% of the country’s private 
rental sector; we grew Lettings >40% in the 
last three years but our share is still <5%
• 
Opportunities to increase penetration of 
mortgages, insurance and conveyancing 
by tailoring product offering and service to 
meet the needs of our London customers
Double our profits in lettings
• 
The private rental sector now represents 
60% of all moves, compared to 37% ten 
years ago
• 
We have headroom for growth in a fragmented 
market and a proven acquisition model
Regain lost share in estate agency
• 
We will strengthen our multichannel  
offer and better align our marketing 
with vendor needs
• 
Investment in people and processes will 
drive better conversion of opportunities 
to instructions and lower withdrawal rates
Financial Services 1
Land and 
new homes
4 Commercial 5
Strong record in acquisitions 
• 
2015 – acquired businesses in key 
cities including Nottingham, Birmingham 
and Manchester
• 
2016 – M&A pipeline is strong with 
imminent acquisitions in key city locations
Cities 6
London 2 Retail 3 Strategic report
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 14
How we run our business
What makes us different...
Retail
Bringing our sales and lettings  
businesses together
We are the UK’s only national estate agency, selling 
approximately 1 in 15 properties, and we are  
also the UK’s largest letting agent. 
London 
Defined in one business unit, recognising 
distinct characteristics of London market
Our London business unit (BU) consists of approximately  
400 Estate Agency and Lettings operations, spread 
across 250 physical locations.
We manage the Group through four 
customer-centric business units:
Read more in our segmental review  
page 24
Read more in our segmental review  
page 26
SOLD
Local brands, national 
operating model
• 
We have a network of over 50 Retail 
brands with local heritage plus shared 
support infrastructure (e.g. centralised 
online marketing and regional property 
management centres) to capture scale 
benefits and enable branches to focus 
on selling.
• 
Retail and London operating strategies 
are tightly aligned: best practices are 
transferred, selective back-office 
infrastructure is shared, and a few 
brands span both Retail and London 
(e.g. Bairstow Eves).
Supporting customers through 
the end-to-end property journey
• 
We are involved from property search through 
to placing the key in the purchaser’ s hand and 
beyond. We aim to help customers sell or let 
faster with higher odds of the transaction 
going through smoothly through providing 
financial services, surveys and conveyancing 
as well as a joined-up approach for buy-to-let.
• 
This also generates significant cross-sell 
revenue from Retail and London into 
Financial Services and B2B, and there is 
more to go for if we can truly operate as 
one Countrywide.
Operating as one talent pool 
• 
We actively encourage leaders moving 
between business lines to build their 
careers and strengthen both their 
relationships and knowledge through 
referrals and enable integrated solutions  
to meet our customers’ needs. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 15
...makes us stronger
Leveraging our  
data and insight
• 
Our scale and breadth of offering gives us 
unique data sets on property trends and 
customer behaviour, which we integrate 
and analyse through a central research 
and analytics team.
• 
This data powers strategic decisions  
at national and branch level, as well as 
providing distinctive research content  
to raise our profile as a leading voice  
in the industry.
Acquisitions 
• 
We have a track record of identifying  
and executing acquisitions, ranging  
from consolidation of small/medium-size 
lettings agencies through to expanding 
into new markets (e.g. entering commercial 
via acquiring Lambert Smith Hampton).
• 
We look to drive operational synergies 
quickly, while celebrating the best 
practices and best people of companies 
we acquire, to continually strengthen the 
Group’s capabilities.
Diversification 
• 
Countrywide is the most diversified  
pure UK property services firm.
• 
Broadening our business mix has 
helped us reduce reliance on a volatile 
transactions market, while retaining 
operational gearing to capitalise on  
any upside.
Read more on our markets  
page 16
B2B
Includes surveying, conveyancing, 
commercial and a unified Land & 
New Homes team 
As one of the largest property businesses serving corporate 
clients in the UK, we serve most major lenders, investors, 
house builders, commercial businesses, corporations, local 
authorities and housing associations.
Read more in our segmental review  
page 30
Financial Services
Clear and distinct mortgage, insurance  
and protection business
We have a dedicated network of over 650 mortgage 
consultants operating under the Countrywide brand, 
and in Mortgage Intelligence we own one of the most 
successful networks in the UK with over 400 advisors.
Read more in our segmental review  
page 28 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 16
Strategic report
Our markets
A look back over the past twelve 
months and a look forward to what 
2016 has in store.
The sales market of 2015
2015 was year of two halves, the second 
being much busier than the first. Figures 
from the Land Registry show that the number 
of housing transactions was down 7% in the 
first six months of 2015 against the previous 
year. The latest data (to the end of October) 
shows a drop of 6% compared to 2014 and 
the full year is expected to reflect a decline 
of around 3–4%.
From June 2015 mortgage approvals for house 
purchases began to pick up, a precursor to 
the growth in the number of transactions later 
on, with the number of mortgage approvals 
tending to feed into transactions about two 
months later. Halfway through the year, 
data from the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors began to show the ratio of sales 
to stock starting to rise, highlighting that 
demand for property was outpacing the 
number of homes on the market. 
For Countrywide the pick-up in activity after 
the summer coincided with a drop-off in the 
number of homes for sale. 2015 ended with 
22% fewer homes on the market with stock 
scarcity continuing to drive vendor expectations 
upwards. Just 4% of sellers reduced the price 
of their home in December, the smallest number 
in any month since the late 2013 boom. 
A strong start to 2016 points to further price 
and volume growth over the rest of the year. 
Although we expect the number of transactions 
to continue growing, we should not get carried 
away. There are still a number of hurdles such 
as: the tighter regulations on credit which 
have made mortgages less accessible; the 
issue of affordability, particularly in London 
and the South; and also the likelihood of 
interest rates rising at some point in the 
future. But, overall, the story for transactions 
looks positive, if still a little uncertain.
The rental market of 2015
Rents for newly let homes continued to grow 
in the UK in 2015 albeit at a slower pace 
than in 2014. Average UK rents grew by 
3.1% in 2015 taking the average monthly 
rent to £919. Rents rose in all regions of the 
country with the East of England seeing the 
highest growth, 6.5%, and the Central London 
market seeing the smallest with 0.5% growth.
The slowdown in growth in Central London 
in part indicates the continuing pressures 
facing that market. It is more influenced by 
global demand and the uncertainty in the 
global financial markets has led to subdued 
demand. Additionally, sustained rental 
growth during 2012 and 2013 has made 
Central London look expensive in comparison 
to fringe locations. Greater London as a whole 
also saw a slowdown in its growth but rents 
still rose by 4.7%. As rents have risen in 
recent years, tenants have increasingly taken 
advantage of cheaper areas in Outer London 
or further afield in the commuter belt. 
Falling numbers of homes available to rent 
and increasing demand from tenants were 
the defining features of the rental market 
over the course of last year, putting upward 
pressure on rents. This imbalance between 
supply and demand has intensified competition 
for homes in the market. The average property 
is now let within 20 days of being instructed, 
two days quicker than in 2014. 
2016 holds complications for the sector as 
the Government sets its sights on boosting 
homeownership. The additional 3% stamp 
duty charge, stricter regulation and changes 
to tax relief from 2017 onwards will all take 
their toll on investor sentiment and impact 
behaviour. With stock at a premium, the smaller 
landlords who decide to sell up will add 
upward pressure to rents, although any rises 
will be tempered by affordability pressures.
A look forward to 2016
Risks and opportunities in 2016
Looking forward to the rest of 2016, there is 
a raft of new issues to deal with, all creating 
risks and opportunities in the housing market. 
Economic conditions are hugely important and 
we have seen the pace of economic growth 
pick up – and then wane in 2015 as the UK 
struggles to get a more balanced recovery. 
The global economy cannot be ignored – 
uncertainty in China led the Chancellor to 
talk of nasty cocktails of events which could 
derail the UK recovery in 2016. And then 
there is the Brexit debate – will Britain leave 
the EU and will that mean more austerity 
but with higher interest rates? 
The answers will become clear in due 
course, but it is not all gloomy. There is more 
Government policy aimed at housebuilding 
with new housing zones dotted across the 
country and the extension of Help to Buy, 
including the very generous 40% deposit 
London Help to Buy scheme, which should 
help to stimulate buyer activity and 
boost transactions. 
Higher interest rates are 
not such a threat to owners
Interest rates are expected to increase towards 
the end of the year but it is unlikely to cause 
many problems in the housing market. There 
are few signs of mortgage distress and more 
than half of owners will not be affected by rate 
changes because they either own outright or 
are on a fixed rate loan. The market will not 
be derailed by floods of distressed sales. 
And even when rates do rise the likelihood 
is they will do so very slowly and won’t go 
above 3%. Even allowing for a widening 
of mortgage margins that keeps mortgage 
rates low by historical standards, it keeps 
opportunities alive for new transactions.  Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 17
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
But what about the buy-to-let 
and investor market?
Buy to let lending has been supporting the 
market while movers have been absent since 
2008. In Q3 2015, lending to investors was 
up 10% compared with just a 0.4% increase 
in lending to owners. Returns on property 
have been better than other investments on 
rental yield alone. But with expected capital 
growth in the equation, actual returns have 
been much higher.
The addition of a 3% stamp duty surcharge 
will reduce yields, but yields are still above 
returns on other safe assets, so it is not clear 
whether that alone will dissuade new entry. 
Choices are more likely to be affected by 
expectations of future price growth and the 
availability of the extra cash up front. 
The effect on yields is spread geographically 
due to differences in house prices. But even 
in London, where prices and hence the stamp 
duty bills are highest and yields are affected 
most, that does not mean that demand will 
collapse. Indeed it presents opportunities 
for other buyers. London Help to Buy will 
support demand for new property and, with 
London’s economy and its house prices so 
far ahead of other parts of the country, there 
is still high demand for rental homes, making 
it an attractive income-generating asset. 
LONDON LEAVERS
As the gap between prices in London 
and the South East has grown, so has the 
temptation for Londoners to cash in on 
record house prices and move out of the 
capital. With expectations of future house 
price growth in London easing, many 
chose 2015 to make their move. 
It is part of the natural cycle that households 
move as their priorities change. There 
are lots of reasons why: schools, lifestyle, 
more flexible working and many more. 
In 2015 63,000 Londoners acted on 
these and bought homes outside the 
capital, a two-thirds increase on the 
38,000 in 2014. Many were in their 
30s and 40s in search of more space 
and a different lifestyle, but 2015 saw a 
large number of first-time buyers moving 
out too. Affordability in London is more 
constrained than ever, so many who want 
to buy their first home are looking to less 
expensive areas outside of the city. 
Almost 90% of households leaving London 
moved to other areas in the South of 
England – a total of 53,000 homes, up 
from 33,500 in 2014. That has always 
been the most common place for 
Londoners to move to, but increasingly 
they are searching out homes in areas 
further away, particularly in relatively 
more affordable markets in the Midlands 
and the North. In 2015 the number of 
homes bought by Londoners in the 
Midlands increased by 165%, while 
in the North it increased by 90%.
The flow of Londoners purchasing homes 
outside of the capital will continue to 
characterise the market in 2016 and 
drive growth in the commuter belt. 
As Londoners make their moves, they 
will support price growth in the South.
Where London Help to Buy is affordable to local buyers
London leavers South Midlands North Wales Scotland
Homes bought in 2014 33,500 2,000 2,000 200 450
Homes bought in 2015 53,000 5,300 3,800 250 850
Year-on-year increase 58% 165% 90% 25% 89%
Average price 2015 (£) 415,000 180,000 171,000 182,000 173,000
Affordable
Unaffordable Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 18
Strategic report
Risk and risk management
The Group recognises that the successful management of risk  
as part of our everyday activities is essential to support the 
achievement of our strategic objectives. This includes both current 
risks and those associated with the implementation of future strategy. 
Risk management lies at the heart of what we do and is a source of 
value creation, making it a key component of the Group’s strategic 
agenda. The Board seeks to ensure that the Group identifies and 
manages all risks accordingly, either to create additional value for 
its stakeholders or to protect value through the mitigation of any 
potentially adverse effects. A summary of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group is provided on page 21.
The Group’s risk management function and framework
During 2015, we have invested in our risk and compliance 
infrastructure with the appointment of a Group chief risk and 
compliance officer and key risk team members. Additionally, we 
have taken the opportunity to review the governance structure of our 
management, executive management and Board-level Committees.
The Group has implemented a revised risk management framework 
(RMF) which builds on existing practices and seeks to establish 
a coherent and interactive set of arrangements and processes to 
support the effective and consistent management of risk throughout 
the Group. The outputs of the RMF provide assurance that risks  
are being appropriately identified and managed and that an 
independent assessment of management’s approach to risk 
management is being performed. 
1
Risk  
strategy
2
Risk  
governance
4
Risk 
identification
5
Risk  
assessment
6
Risk  
control
7
Risk monitoring 
and reporting
3
Risk  
culture
8
Risk  
assurance
Our  
portfolio
Our  
people
Our 
customers
To achieve our vision, we recognise that we must create  
and protect value for all our shareholders. We see risk  
management as being an integral component of this.
During the year, the Group has continued to strengthen and embed 
the components of the RMF to ensure that they are aligned with 
our strategy and external best practice. The eight components of 
the RMF are shown in the diagram below:
COUNTRYWIDE’S RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Purpose
Strategy
Values
Vision Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 19
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
7   Risk monitoring and reporting
Monitoring and reporting of the Group’s risk exposures is 
undertaken through management committees. The Group Risk  
and Audit Committee receives a consolidated risk report on  
a quarterly basis, detailing the risks facing the Group and the 
expected six-month position against a series of planned mitigating 
actions. The Group Risk and Audit Committee is also provided  
with regular reports on the activities of the Group Risk and 
Compliance function.
2
  Risk governance
Responsibility for approving, establishing and maintaining the RMF 
rests with the Board. During the year we made enhancements to 
the Group’s governance arrangements to align with our organisational 
redesign from Board through to management committee level. 
There is a clear organisational structure in place with documented, 
delegated authorities and responsibilities from the Board to the 
chief executive and the Executive Committee. 
The RMF is underpinned by the operation of a three-lines-of-defence 
model with clearly defined roles and responsibilities for statutory 
boards and their committees, management oversight committees, 
Group Risk and Group Internal Audit.
Please see the next page for the three-lines-of-defence.
1
  Risk strategy
A comprehensive view of how risk management is incorporated 
consistently across all levels of the business to support informed 
decision making. During the year we established the Group’s risk 
strategy and a risk appetite framework to guide and inform our 
strategic decision making which comprises a series of macro-level 
risk appetite statements proportionate to the nature, scale and 
complexity of risks faced by our business. 
5   Risk assessment
A standardised assessment framework is used to evaluate our risk 
exposure at both business unit and overall Group level, enabling  
a consistent and relative measurement of our top risks at both 
levels. This assessment capability allows us to anticipate, respond 
and continually adapt to the changing risk landscape and ensure 
a comprehensive line of sight through reporting through the 
Group’s governance structure from the business unit leadership 
teams up to the Group Risk and Audit Committee and the Board.
6    Risk control
Controls operate across the business at entity level through 
policies and associated control standards, and locally through 
individual business unit control environments. During the year  
we have identified risk champions throughout the organisation  
and risk sponsors, held workshops to identify requirements  
and established risk registers at business unit level.
8   Risk assurance
Assurance on the management of risk is provided across the 
three-lines-of-defence model. Management committees consider 
outputs from reviews performed by the first line (e.g. quality assurance 
results and management reviews), second line (e.g. risk reviews 
conducted in relation to specific themed areas) and the third line 
via reporting provided by Internal Audit on the results of findings 
from individual audits and progress in implementing agreed 
management actions. The results of this assurance activity are 
reported to the relevant level within the Group.
Further detail on the three-lines-of-defence model are provided on 
the next page.
3
  Risk culture
Operating principles and expectations for risk management 
are driven by a clear tone from the top. During the year we 
have established clear leadership expectations and a common 
understanding of what it means for our leadership community 
in respect of their role in owning and managing risks within the 
Countrywide Group. The work we have undertaken to define 
the Group’s purpose, vision and values provides the compass for 
the Group’s risk culture. The foundation of effective day-to-day 
management of risk is in the way we do business and the culture  
of our team.  
4
  Risk identification
Effective risk management requires that the Group has a complete 
and robust understanding of the risks it faces, which are defined in 
our risk universe. Tools exist to support the identification of short 
and long term risks and during the past year we have raised our 
collective awareness of our material risk exposures, their 
management and ownership. Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 20
Strategic report
Risk and risk management continued
Underpinning the Countrywide RMF is the ‘Three-lines-of-defence’ model:
1  First line of defence
Under the first line of defence, management 
of risk is delegated from the Board to the 
Group chief executive officer, Executive 
Committee members and through to business 
unit senior managers. Business unit management 
leadership teams are responsible for ensuring 
the risks associated with their business’ 
activities are identified, assessed, controlled, 
monitored and reported.
2  Second line of defence
The second line of defence consists of activities 
covered by Group Risk, Legal, HR, Finance, IT 
and other ‘control’ departments. The second 
line sets the strategy and policy for the 
management of specific risks and monitors 
and facilitates the implementation of effective 
risk management practices and assists risk 
owners in reporting adequate information. 
3  Third line of defence
The third line of defence provides independent 
verification of the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the internal controls and risk management. 
This is provided by the Group Risk and 
Audit Committee, which is supported by 
Internal Audit. 
Countrywide plc Board
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee
Financial Services 
leadership team
Retail leadership team London leadership team B2B leadership team
Executive Committee
Executive Risk Committee (ERC)
Group Risk and 
Compliance Committee
Group Information 
Security Committee
Group H&S  
Committee
Third line of defence
• 
Review 1st and 2nd lines
• 
Provide an independent 
perspective and challenge 
the process
• 
Objective and other assurance
First line of defence
• 
Deliver day-to-day 
risk management
• 
Follow the Group RMF
• 
Apply internal controls 
and risk responses
Second line of defence
• 
Oversee and challenge 
risk management
• 
Provide guidance and direction
• 
Develop and oversee RMF
THREE LINES OF DEFENCE
Viability statement
Assessment of prospects
Taking account of the Group’s current position and the potential impact 
of the principal risks detailed opposite, the directors have assessed 
the prospects of the Group over a three-year period, which aligns 
with the Group’s business planning and budgeting cycle.
The directors’ overall assessment has been informed by the inputs to, 
and outputs from, the Group’s RMF as described above. In particular:
• 
the executive team undertook an assessment of the risks reported 
to the Board contained within the quarterly risk report;
• 
those risks were considered against their relative impact and 
likelihood to determine which risks were deemed to be principal 
risks to the Group;
• 
the Group’s business planning model was then used to consider 
the Group’s exposure to our principal risks on two fronts:
• 
business as usual ‘trend-related’ risk – i.e. those risks which are 
progressive in their nature. In this respect we have assessed the 
Group’s viability against two market risk scenarios: an aggressive 
but short term house price crash/decline in transactional volumes 
with a slow return to growth; and a slower, yet continuing, decline 
in house prices/transactional volumes.
  Both of these scenarios included the relative knock-on impact of 
a reduction in EBITDA within our agency operations and to other 
cross-related areas of the business; and 
• 
event-related ‘shock’ risk – i.e. where the crystallisation of a 
particular principal risk results in a one-off cash flow impact which 
the Group would need to be able to absorb in a specific period. 
In considering which principal risks to consider for this scenario 
we sought to identify the most severe, yet plausible, scenarios 
as opposed to modelling each less impactful principal risk; and
• 
the directors then considered the financial and operational impact 
of these severe, but plausible, scenarios to determine their overall 
effect on the Group’ s financial position. This assessment was considered 
against the Group’s expected financial position, existing banking 
facilities and potential management actions. 
Viability statement
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2018.
The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the basis of 
preparation paragraph in note 2 of the accounts. Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 21
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The table below sets out the 
principal risks faced by the Group, together with mitigating factors and  
associated commentary on any changes in risk profile. 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE GROUP
Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary
Market risk
The UK housing market is highly 
cyclical and historically has been 
central to the strength of the UK 
economy. Changes in volumes 
and price are immediately realised 
in the results of the business, 
within both the Estate Agency 
business and also sales of 
complementary services 
throughout other areas of 
the Group.
The impact of changes in the 
global economy cannot be 
ignored and could have an 
adverse effect on the UK  
housing market.
We carry out continuous high level reviews  
of the market, forward indicators and 
diversity of our products and services  
as part of our distribution strategy.
For example, we continue to strengthen  
our Lettings and Commercial operations 
which, by their nature, are more stable 
and counter-cyclical to the housing market.
Increase
A core component of our business strategy  
is to continue with selective acquisitions in 
existing core markets, particularly in lettings 
and commercial. During 2015 we have 
continued to acquire. These developments 
continue to increase resilience of revenue 
streams and diversity of our offerings.  
An ongoing programme of acquisitions  
is planned for the forthcoming year. 
The core driver for the housing market remains 
supply. The legacy of the drop in new build 
following the onset of the global financial 
crisis is now hitting home, with both the  
sales and letting markets continuing to  
show demand outstripping supply on a 
month-by-month basis.
Loss of a major business partner or outsourcing partner
There are a number of important 
commercial relationships which 
affect more than one area of 
the business. The loss of key 
customers or contracts, or 
significant reduction in volumes 
combined with pressure on fees, 
would have a significant impact 
on our profitability. The failure of 
a significant supplier could impair 
our ability to operate effectively.
We centralised the team responsible for 
liaising with key customers and developing 
new contracts. The operating divisions 
carry out regular reviews with key clients at 
different levels of management. Reviews at 
leadership team level between the client 
and B2B business unit/Countrywide plc 
also take place. We operate appropriate 
contingency measures in the event of 
supplier collapse. The key partner alliances 
in place and the confidence that these 
partners have in us mean that we have 
significant resilience to loss. 
No change
We continue to benefit from strong relationships 
with our corporate partners and we have 
retained, as well as won, a number of 
contracts with key clients. We were selected 
by Santander as one of its formal valuation 
partners from 1 January 2015 and both 
Nationwide and HSBC have also chosen 
to renew their contracts with us.  Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 22
Strategic report
Risk and risk management continued
Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary
IT infrastructure and information security
Dependence on efficient systems 
for operational performance and 
financial information would be 
impacted by significant failures  
or interruptions to IT services. 
Data security is also essential  
to the secure processing,  
storage and transmission of 
routine personal, confidential  
and proprietary information.
There has been significant continual 
investment to support operational 
expansion and as part of the planned 
transformation and maintenance of 
operational systems and infrastructure. 
Routine penetration testing is also 
conducted in respect of data security.
No change
The transition of our IT infrastructure via 
outsourcing to CGI has continued throughout 
2015. Additionally, we commissioned an 
independent strategic review of the full 
IT infrastructure during 2015 and, as a  
result of this work, have a full roadmap 
of development and optimisation work 
scheduled for 2016 and the coming years. 
The Information Security Steering Committee 
has met regularly throughout the year in 
order to co-ordinate information security best 
practice and to ensure continuing accreditation 
within business to business operations.
Business continuity plans and key systems 
are in place and we hold ISO 27001 certification 
across a number of our key business areas.
Professional indemnity exposure
The previous downturn in the UK 
housing and commercial markets  
and the impact of sub-prime 
lending exposed the Group to 
a higher level of professional 
insurance claims within the 
Surveying services.
Financial misstatement and fraud risk
Material financial misstatement 
may arise due to error or fraud,  
in the form of fraudulent financial 
reporting or misappropriation of 
assets. Reputational damage and 
inappropriate decision making 
data availability to management 
may arise from non-fraudulent 
misstatement in financial reports 
and financial loss to the Group 
may occur as a result 
of misappropriations. 
Embedded financial controls, incorporating 
appropriate segregation of duties, operate 
within the businesses to ensure robust 
preventative and detective controls are in 
place. Independent financial reviews are 
undertaken within the operational divisions 
as an additional, high level, detective control. 
These reviews are also supplemented by 
centralised monitoring of financial 
performance against budgets and 
operating targets.
Misappropriation of funds is mitigated by 
centralised treasury monitoring of all bank 
accounts, with embedded operational 
controls ensuring appropriate delegation  
of authority, restricted access to accounts 
and appropriate segregation of duties and 
mandated dual authorisation controls.
No change
We have continued to monitor embedded 
controls and conduct independent 
management reviews across our divisions. 
We ensure that where best practice 
developments emerge these are shared 
within the Group and implementation  
plans are developed accordingly. In addition, 
we adopt recommendations arising from 
internal and external reviews. 
Monitoring arrangements include operational 
controls implemented for review of surveyor 
outputs and targeted use of automated 
valuation models in perceived higher 
risk cases, as well as maintenance of risk 
management arrangements. In respect of 
legacy issues, we continue to review the 
judgements and estimates underpinning the 
existing professional indemnity provision.
We carry a different professional indemnity 
insurance arrangement for our commercial 
business, Lambert Smith Hampton, as 
potential individual exposures could be 
larger. By doing this we protect our overall 
Group cover and effectively ring fence 
commercial risks delivering a financially 
beneficial position for the Group overall.
Decrease
Focus on this area has been maintained 
during 2015 with additional ongoing reviews 
of our audit process to identify further 
improvements.
Risk management remains a top priority for 
us and has additional benefits in demonstrating 
to clients the quality of professional advice 
and services we deliver. Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 23
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary
Competitive landscape
Countrywide operates across a 
range of highly competitive 
markets, some of which are 
experiencing changes in the 
traditional operating models. 
Competition could lead to a 
reduction in market share and/or 
a decline in revenues. 
Our business strategy concentrates on 
promoting our strengths of bringing people 
and property together while focusing on 
customer choice through, for example, 
digitised solutions as a complementary 
element of our service offering. 
Our focus continues to comprise the 
retention of both existing customers  
as well as engaging with new customers  
by ensuring that our service offering 
evolves and improves to meet and  
exceed expectations in the market. 
Increase
Our extensive research across over 3,000 
customers indicates that there are a full 
range of customer needs and that the vast 
majority are looking for digital solutions to 
help them with parts of the customer journey 
rather than a pure digital interaction. 
We are continuing to evolve our proposition 
with customer needs and we continually 
collect information on competitor activity. 
Our management structure allows this 
competitor intelligence to be fed back to 
management accurately and quickly so  
that the Company can rapidly consider 
appropriate responses. 
Regulatory compliance
Failure to meet current or increased 
legal or regulatory requirements 
could result in reputational and 
financial damage, including 
withdrawal of authorisation or 
licences for the conduct of 
business streams. 
Expertise within the operational divisions is 
also supported by centralised legal and 
compliance teams which closely monitor 
existing business practices and any reform 
proposals. Employees receive appropriate 
training and our managers attend industry 
forums and Government consultations. 
Robust complaints management systems 
are in place across all operating divisions, 
with root/cause analysis in place.
No change
The first phase of the EU Mortgage Credit 
Directive (MCD), in force from 1 March 2016, 
will impact on lenders, but not to the degree 
that the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) of 
2014 did. The MCD changes will be assimilated 
within the business in accordance with the plan. 
We maintain close links and open dialogue 
with our regulatory bodies and have continued 
to monitor regulatory developments and 
their impacts across our divisions, developing 
implementation plans accordingly and 
adopting recommendations arising from 
external reviews. 
Where necessary, we deploy specialist 
external resource to supplement our 
in-house expertise on regulatory change.  Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 24
Strategic report
Segmental review
We are already in the enviable position 
of being the leading player across 
estate agency and lettings in the UK 
market and in Retail we will leverage 
our scale and incredible expertise 
to deliver significant future growth.
Sam Tyrer
Managing director, Retail
HIGHLIGHTS
• 
LaunchPad – our innovative tablet 
technology speeds properties to 
market and streamlines operations
• 
Continued selective and 
strategic acquisitions 
• 
Multiple awards, including The Sunday 
Times Lettings and Estate Agency 
of the Year 
• 
New Starts programme continues 
to build profitability 
Retail
Operating review
Estate Agency: the number of properties 
coming to market did not meet our forecast 
in 2015 and overall exchanges were 9% 
down on 2014. Demand was also subdued 
with the number of potential homebuyers 
registered down 7% year on year at 912,000, 
although we did see some evidence of 
improving demand towards the end of the 
year. We continued to improve productivity 
and agreed sales on a higher proportion 
of our new instructions in the year. 
The new instructions market remained 
extremely competitive with the pure play online 
agents being the most visible. This resulted 
in our average instructed fee decreasing by 
3% despite our improved customer proposition 
and market appraisal focus.
Lettings: the market was stable through 
2015 and demand continued to outstrip 
supply, with more than twelve people 
registering an interest in every property. 
We agreed 42,600 lettings in 2015 with 
prime properties being let most quickly. 
The Countrywide Rental Index, published 
monthly, has shown that the rent for new 
lets increased by 4.1% nationally in 2015 
reflecting the continued strong demand 
in this sector.
Supply in the South of England started 
recovering in Q4 and by the end of the year 
was back at the 2014 level. In addition, monthly 
rents increased most in the South West 
(up 6.2%), demonstrating that there is still 
demand for good properties with more than 
15 applicants per available property. In the 
Midlands there was a mixed supply across 
the regions. Midlands West and East were 
stable, while Midlands Central and North 
had fewer rental properties compared to 2014. 
Monthly rent in the East of England saw the 
second highest increase in the country – up 
5.8% – while the Midlands and Wales grew 
by 2.8% and 1.8% respectively. In the North 
and Scotland, rental properties remained in 
short supply and rent only increased by 2.5%. 
Despite this, the number of applicants remained 
high in the North with an increase from eight 
to ten applicants for each available property. 
We remain committed to using the leading 
portals Rightmove and Zoopla whilst also 
giving our customers the widest possible 
exposure to other digital platforms, including 
our own websites. 
We also improved the customer experience by:
• 
introducing innovative tablet technology 
– LaunchPad – which has dramatically 
improved productivity by improving the 
speed of taking properties to market;
• 
improving landlord retention through 
improved customer service and increased 
resource in our property management 
and customer care teams; and
• 
enhancing our online tools. Our landlord 
portal has made it easier for clients to do 
business with us and tenants are now also 
able to complete referencing online.  Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 25
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Total income (£m)
254.5
-4%
231.7
2013
265.7
2014
254.5
2015
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
43.3
-26%
37.5
2013
58.6
2014
43.3
2015
House exchanges (number)
50,396
-9%
49,356
2013
55,422
2014
50,396
2015
Residential properties  
under management (number)
60,272
+7%
44,640
2013
56,204
2014
60,272
2015
Landlord retention
During 2015 a decision was made to be much more proactive in 
terms of contacting landlords at various stages of their customer 
journey. The objective of this contact strategy was not only to reduce 
customer attrition but also to identify touchpoints where we could 
enhance our service delivery and embed this into the business 
through coaching and development. 
The customer care team was established in the North by Kerry Tipper, 
who set some clear targets and objectives around an effective contact 
strategy, a more robust complaint handling process and strengthening 
the relationship and working practices between the property management 
centres and the branches they supported. The customer care team is 
five strong and makes regular calls to new and long-standing 
Countrywide landlords in order to understand any issues and address 
them before they escalate. The results this team has delivered are 
tangible and year on year our landlord retention has increased by 
48%. Following the success of this initiative the concept has been 
extended to other parts of the country. 
Kerry Tipper, director of customer care, says: 'The decision to set up 
a customer care team has been hugely beneficial. We had insufficient 
focus on the retention of occupied units and our approach to complaints 
handling was inconsistent and at times not conciliatory enough. 
'We mapped the customer journey and agreed that contacting landlords 
four months into a tenancy meant that we were more likely to pick up 
issues before they became complaints. 
‘Where complaints have arisen we have used our customer feedback 
in a constructive manner to adapt working practices where necessary 
and also coach our teams to handle complaints more effectively and 
more consistently. 
'The key to the success of this team has been the relentless focus on 
communication with our customers and then using this feedback in 
a constructive manner to develop our people and our business.'
Kerry Tipper
Case  
study
KPIs Acquisition remains an important part of 
our strategy and during 2015 we acquired 
27 businesses, including a number of large 
businesses and brands. We aim to increase 
our market presence in areas where we 
are under-represented and, in 2015, we 
significantly increased our presence in the 
Liverpool region with the acquisition of two 
businesses, Clive Watkins and Sutton Kersh. 
The largest acquisition of 2015 was the 
John Francis network of 21 branches in 
South Wales, which has given us great scope 
to expand and develop this market. 
Plans for 2016
The Retail business unit has a combined force 
of 4,800 people across 822 branches and 
61 brands, giving us a unique opportunity 
to delight our customers and enhance their 
property experience whether they are a 
landlord, tenant, vendor or potential buyer. 
We have focused on ensuring our business 
structures are set up to deliver the ambitious 
plans we have for 2016, all of which put the 
customer at the heart of what we do and 
help us to double the size of our business 
by 2020. 
Outlook
With a stable interest rate outlook and some 
improvement in new build numbers, the level 
of transactions in the market is expected to 
grow gradually into 2016. With our continued 
focus on growing market share, we expect to 
move forward positively in 2016. Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 26
Strategic report
Segmental review continued
Our plans are ambitious for London, 
Europe’s largest property market.  
We plan to capitalise on this growth 
opportunity using our stable of strong 
brands, our unparalleled distribution 
network and our brilliant people.
Graham Bell
Managing director, London
London
HIGHLIGHTS
• 
Successful acquisitions last year – 
Greene & Co, John Curtis, Vanet 
Property Asset Management
• 
Lettings fees grew year on year 
to £56 million with tenancies 
growing 3%
• 
Significant growth in the London 
residential sales pipeline, up year 
on year by 22%
• 
Strong performance in premium house 
sales above £2 million, outperforming 
the London residential sales market
Operating review
2015 saw a significant amount of change 
with the creation of a new London business 
unit. Servicing the largest and one of the 
most diverse residential property markets 
in the world, Countrywide’s London business 
unit has been divided up into four business 
areas, each focusing on distinct segments: 
Bairstow Eves & Mann, Mid-market and Growth, 
Premier and City, and Hamptons International. 
It now has more than 250 branches which 
incorporate over 420 sales and lettings 
operations across 20 high street brands, and 
2,600 people who generated £178 million 
of income in 2015 and £34 million of 
EBITDA. The breadth of our offer in London, 
coupled with the strength and robustness 
of market-leading brands, give us a great 
platform for growth over the next few years.
A strengthening economy, low interest rates 
and new Government schemes aimed at 
helping first-time-buyers continued to support 
demand in the core London market in 2015. 
However, the supply of housing stock was 
restricted, with a 6% fall in the number of 
homes coming onto the market. As a result 
of this demand and supply imbalance, prices 
across London continued their upward path, 
albeit at a more modest rate than in 2014, 
to finish the year at £507,000, and the number 
of sales in the capital fell by 10% from 2014 
levels. Rents increased by 4.7% over 2015 
to finish the year at an average of £1,292 
per month. 
As predicted the first half of 2015 was quiet 
in the lead up to the general election in May. 
In addition to this, the 2014 stamp duty 
changes resulted in a noticeable slowdown 
in the sales market at the upper end throughout 
2015. This is an area where Countrywide is 
a leading player with brands including 
John D Wood and Hamptons. Despite the 
market for house sales over £2 million being 
down by 26% year on year, Countrywide 
London, as a whole, outperformed the market 
with £2 million plus sales down 6% from 
437 to 409, demonstrating the strength of 
these brands and our network. Total 2015 
annual revenues across the London division 
were 3% higher than in 2014, with profits 
8% lower due to the additional cost base 
taken on as a result of the acquisitions and 
new branch openings. The impact of the 
depressed upper end of the housing market, 
combined with house price inflation in Outer 
London and the mid-market, meant that our 
average sales fee increased by 5%. Whilst 
total lettings fees grew year on year by 1%, 
the mix of lettings between Central London 
and Outer London resulted in the average 
letting fee decreasing by 2%.
Preparation for growth
In 2015, we continued with our strategy 
of making acquisitions in sectors of the 
market where we identify growth opportunities. 
Acquisitions in the year included Greene & Co, 
a leading business in the mid-market in 
North London, John Curtis in Harpenden 
and Wheathampstead, as well as Vanet Property 
Asset Management, based in Docklands. 
We also opened new Hamptons branches 
in Earlsfield and Headington. All of these 
acquisitions and new branches have performed 
in line with expectations so far. Greene & Co. 
have added to our sales and lettings growth 
in the mid-market and our wider London 
lettings revenues grew by 9% as a result 
of an increase in our lettings footprint from 
branch expansion and the acquisition 
of specialist lettings businesses. Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 27
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Old Church Park development, Romford
NU Living is a design-led innovative developer with an ethical stance, 
committed to putting customers first. All NU Living profits are reinvested 
to fund regeneration and development of exemplary, affordable new 
homes. The NU Living Old Church Park development in Romford is a 
development of one and two bedroom apartments, many with gated 
parking. Each apartment is comprehensively equipped to fulfil the 
demands of modern living. With great rail and bus links owners can 
easily commute to London and the City. Romford itself is a thriving 
town where many successful businesses are located and the 
Queen’s Hospital is also close by.
In April 2015 Steve Lillistone, business development director, and his 
Countrywide Residential Development team received an instruction 
to market Phase 3 of Old Church Park, Romford. Steve’s aim was to 
host a very successful launch on behalf of the developer and his first 
step was to devise a site-specific launch plan, and join up all the 
relevant teams from within Countrywide.
Steve brought a number of his colleagues together to ensure that 
he could produce a ‘full service solution’ for his client. He met with 
his colleagues from the East London and Essex-based networks of 
Countrywide estate agents Abbotts and Bairstow Eves to discuss the 
marketing plan for the properties. Next he brought in John Taylor, area 
manager of Countrywide Financial Services for North and East London. 
He also spoke with the relevant Countrywide Lettings teams to ensure 
that any buy-to-let investors could receive advice on the launch day. 
Steve’s approach meant the whole team knew what steps would need 
to be taken to deliver a successful launch for our client. 
The lead up to the launch took just under two weeks, during which 
Abbotts and Bairstow Eves worked tirelessly to ensure they delivered 
a highly successful sales and marketing campaign around the launch 
of the Old Church Park development.
On the launch day in May 2015, 18 plots out of 84 were released by 
NU Living. The Countrywide marketing efforts were apparent as the 
queue started to build from 5.45 am. 
Linda Faucher, sales and marketing director of NU Living, said: 'It became 
obvious to us that we would probably need to release further units 
on the launch day given the amount of interest in the development.' 
The Countrywide Financial Services team was also on site on the 
launch day to ensure that it could assist NU Living applicants with 
their mortgage applications. 
'We have worked with NU Living since 2010; I am delighted that we 
co-ordinated services from other parts of Countrywide to ensure we 
delivered the best possible service to our client,' said Jon Taylor, area 
manager, Countrywide Financial Services. 'Out of all the applications 
we made, 20 of them were through the Government-backed Help to 
Buy scheme.' 
The development was sold out due to the reservations taken over the 
launch weekend and the ongoing marketing over the following few 
weeks. This was a great result for both NU Living and for Countrywide.
Total income (£m)
 178.0
+3%
166.0
2013
172.6
2014
178.0
2015
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
34.2
-8%
35.5
2013
37.1
2014
34.2
2015
House exchanges 
(number)
 1 1,8 19 
-11%
12,954
2013
13,338
2014
11,819
2015
Residential properties  
under management (number)
 14,588  
+16%
10,640
2013
12,600
2014
14,588
2015
KPIs Our International department grew in 2015 
with affiliations established in the Algarve, 
Portugal; Costa Blanca, Spain; Tuscany and 
Umbria, Italy; and Valais Canton, Switzerland. 
Hamptons international have the largest 
UK-based international property portal 
containing over 100,000 listings and over 
7,000 international partner offices. This 
number has been as high as 130,000 in 
peak season. In mid-2015 John D Wood & Co. 
launched an international offering, working 
with the already established Hamptons 
International team.
Outlook
Whilst it remains to be seen if the EU 
referendum will have an impact on Central 
London house sales, we expect to see a 
gradual improvement in sales transactions 
in the upper end of the London sales market 
in 2016, as vendor and purchaser expectations 
continue to align. Growth in transactions and 
prices in the Outer London regions should 
continue, as people move from central areas 
to wider London boroughs and commuter 
zones when buying or ‘trading up’, driven by 
affordability. This trend will play well to our 
diversified network strength across all sectors 
and regions of the London property market.
The London lettings market is a robust one 
and is continuing to evolve and grow. 29% of 
households rent in London compared to 18% 
nationally and people are increasingly ‘on the 
move’ , in and out of the capital. London now 
represents 34% of the UK rental market by 
number of lets. To service this demand, further 
expansion of our London-based lettings 
business remains a priority.
Case  
study Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 28
Strategic report
Segmental review continued
Excellent mortgage growth  
exceeds the market.
Peter Curran
Managing director, Financial Services
HIGHLIGHTS
• 
The Financial Services division 
continues as the third largest 
mortgage distributor in the UK, 
with approximately 6% of the UK 
mortgage market
• 
11% EBITDA growth
• 
Strong mortgage growth from 
Mortgage Intelligence and Slater Hogg, 
increasing 30% and 16% year on 
year respectively
• 
In our field sales force, productivity 
per mortgage consultant has increased 
by 8% year on year with a 4% 
reduction in heads 
• 
12% increase in protection revenues
• 
9,500 customers referred to our 
conveyancing business, generating 
£3 million in revenue
Financial Services
Operating review
Mortgage market conditions in the first half 
of 2015 were subdued, with gross lending 
trailing 1% behind the prior year. The 
anticipated slowdown prior to the general 
election and weak lending in the first quarter 
alone led most market commentators to 
downgrade their expectation of the year’s 
outturn. However, the lending markets 
picked up across the summer, matching 
levels of activity not seen since 2008. 
Continued strong growth in the second half 
of the year was equally encouraging and the 
market finished at £220 billion, reflecting 8% 
year-on-year growth. 
The potential for interest rate rises also 
continued throughout the year, but ultimately 
the long-expected increase did not materialise. 
This ensured that our customers continued 
to enjoy low interest rates on their mortgages; 
however, our remortgage opportunity was 
diminished by a relative lack of consumer 
appetite to lock in low interest rates before 
any increases in the base rate. 
Despite the challenging market conditions 
in the first half of the year, our written 
mortgage performance has been encouraging, 
with overall growth by value and excellent 
performance from both Mortgage Intelligence 
and Slater Hogg, delivering 30% and 16% 
mortgage growth, respectively.
The Government’s autumn statement 
introduced an increased stamp duty charge 
for buy-to-let investors, effective April 2016, 
and we observed an increase in buy-to-let 
activity in the last quarter of the year. Regardless 
of the proposed changes in stamp duty, we 
continue to identify this sector as an area 
of growth, given expectations of continued 
strengthening in private rentals, and the 
associated contribution that non-institutional 
investors have to make in this space. 
This year we have achieved encouraging 
results from both our core protection and 
general insurance sales, with 8% growth in 
customers buying protection products and 
4% overall growth in our general insurance 
book. Our strong relationship continues with 
our core general insurance partner, AXA, 
and, as such, we have agreed a new contract 
to enable us to deliver high quality general 
insurance products to our customers. 
Adverse weather conditions in the latter part 
of 2015, especially with regard to the flooding 
in Northern England, has resulted in lower 
profitability of the underlying contract in 
comparison with the prior year; however, 
we are proud that our customers received 
swift and decisive care from our partner’s 
claims handling team. 
Preparation for growth
As part of the Group’s Building our Future 
strategy the Financial Services business unit 
has been preparing for growth, through the 
restructure of the executive team, and we 
are continuing a further series of senior 
appointments to strengthen our capability. 
Our plans for 2016 focus around growing 
customer value, through various communication 
channels and ensuring that our diverse 
customer base benefits from the best mortgage 
opportunities in the market place. We aim to 
maintain a regular dialogue with our existing 
customers in order to fulfil their needs as 
their circumstances evolve.  Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 29
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Looking after our customers
People have mortgages for an average of 24 years, giving us an excellent 
opportunity to build a life-long relationship with our customers. We are 
good at working with new customers, but we recognise that there is 
a huge opportunity for us to grow our market share in the remortgage 
market too, which is up 31% by value (H2 2014 v H2 2015). 
The remortgage market is highly competitive, which means that existing 
homeowners are in a great position to benefit from some excellent 
offers available at low interest rates. With this in mind Leah Emery, 
regional sales manager in the Midlands, and her team started sharing 
their success stories about finding the best products for their customers. 
Very often we have been able to make huge cost savings on behalf 
of our customers:
• 
This year Mazar Singh, one of our mortgage consultants, saved 
a customer £57,100 by reducing their mortgage term by eight 
years. In the process he also reduced their monthly payments 
by £13 with no remortgage fees at all from the bank. 
• 
David Smith, another one of our mortgage consultants, worked with 
a customer who had found a remortgage online for a 30-year term 
and a £500 set up fee. David was able to listen to our customer’ s needs 
and find an improved deal, reducing the term to 25 years and having 
no remortgage fees to pay! The customer was delighted. We are 
really proud that through David’s expertise, our customer found 
an even better deal and ended up saving £78,500 in the process.
• 
This fantastic work continues into 2016 and we are delighted to 
report that David was able to save a recent remortgage customer 
£180,000 over the term of their mortgage. The customer is over 
the moon as he can now afford to save and be mortgage free 
straight after the fixed rate finishes.
 
We put the customer at the heart of everything we do and our continued 
focus on listening to and satisfying their needs, coupled with our 
innovative approach in the remortgage market, will bring further 
opportunities in 2016. Savings that we can make on remortgages 
then help our customers to afford better protection both for their 
life assurance and general insurance needs – ultimately an 
excellent outcome for our customers and a great way to build 
those life-long relationships.
We intend to transform the Countrywide 
mortgage experience and we are in the final 
stages of testing our new point-of-sales system. 
We plan to roll out the new software to our 
mortgage consultants in early 2016, enabling 
them to provide high quality advice in a 
flexible, efficient and user-friendly way, whilst 
giving access to the full suite of premium 
protection and general insurance products 
from our partners.
We are focused on building the best team 
through investing resources in the training 
and development of our existing sales force 
and are in the process of supporting our 
consultants through the recruitment of 
additional first line of defence field-based 
compliance staff. 
Outlook
The continued Bank of England decisions 
to hold base interest rates steady provide 
borrowers with shelter from interest rate 
instability in the near to medium term and, 
given the momentum of the mortgage 
market in late 2015, we expect to see 
continued uplift in trading in 2016.
Case  
study
Total income (£m)
81.0
+6%
67.7
2013
76.4
2014
81.0
2015
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
20.7
+11%
14.2
2013
18.6
2014
20.7
2015
Total mortgages arranged  
(number)
75,939
+8%
60,640
2013
70,529
2014
75,939
2015
Mortgage value (£bn)
 12.2
+18%
8.3
2013
10.3
2014
12.2
2015
KPIs Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 30
Strategic report
Our B2B businesses provide dedicated 
support to a diverse range of private 
and public sector businesses and banks 
throughout the UK. By strengthening our 
partnerships with corporate clients we 
know we can better meet their needs.
Paul Creffield
Managing director, B2B
Segmental review continued
HIGHLIGHTS
• 
Strong performance from Surveying 
Service business delivering 12% 
revenue growth and 34% increase 
in EBITDA contribution
• 
Residential development solutions 
performance grew with the addition 
of Ikon Consultancy and new homes 
hubs from Greene & Co.
• 
A strong underlying performance 
from Lambert Smith Hampton was 
strengthened by the acquisition 
of three businesses in 2015 plus 
excellent results from Ireland, which 
became the most profitable region 
outside London
B2B
Professional Services
The Professional Services division of B2B 
includes Surveying Services with the addition 
of Hamptons Valuations; Conveyancing 
Services; Estate and Asset Management 
taken from the Lettings and Estate Agency 
divisions; and Property Auctions from 
Estate Agency.
2015 was an excellent year for our Surveying 
Services business delivering sustainable growth 
in revenue and EBITDA year on year. Increased 
mortgage approvals drove £3.8 million 
additional contribution while productivity 
gains augmented results by a further 
£1.0 million after bearing the cost of our 
graduate training programme. Our qualified 
surveyor headcount has risen to 405 and 
we are continuing to recruit into our graduate 
programme. Risk management and quality of 
advice to all clients remain top priorities and 
we are pleased to report that our risk and 
compliance initiatives implemented over the 
past few years have resulted in significantly 
fewer valuation and defects claims. We are 
also pleased to confirm that both Nationwide 
Building Society and HSBC have renewed 
long term valuation contracts with us reflecting 
the quality and level of service we continue 
to deliver.
Conveyancing Services has seen a year 
of change, with moves affecting the panel 
management business and internal business 
generation teams connected with our Retail 
and London businesses. 2015 has seen 
fewer instructions which have impacted 
on revenue and EBITDA, but plans have 
been set to significantly increase instructions 
going forward. Nevertheless, our pipelines 
remain robust. The main highlight for 2015 
has been the continued recruitment of new 
lawyers into training programmes so that we 
can adequately service volumes of expected 
instructions and the successful roll out of 
our upgraded software operating system, 
Visual Files.
We have aligned our Leasehold Management 
business with our Asset Management business 
under a single managing director going 
forward with a plan to continue our growth 
in this important area. However, 2015 proved 
a challenging year for Asset Management as 
the repossessions market in 2015 declined 
by 51%, impacting results. 
Our Professional Services division comprises 
well established businesses and management 
teams who have contributed to the Building 
our Future strategy. Our plans for the future 
seek to drive increased Group value from 
Conveyancing by working with our partners 
in Retail, London and Financial Services to 
deliver an excellent service for home movers 
and we will continue our focus on the quality 
of service and reducing the potential for future 
claims. We are also researching new survey 
products for consumers and cementing our 
position as a leader in the market. Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 31
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Gross income summary
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Change
%
Survey and valuation 66,295 59,241 12
Conveyancing 32,206 33,161 (3)
Other professional services 14,417 17,060 (15)
Professional Services 112,918 109,462 3
Land & New Homes 27,736 23,023 20
Commercial 101,686 72,798 40
Total gross income generated by B2B clients 242,340 205,283 18
Income passed to other business units (23,289) (22,968) 1
B2B net income 219,051 182,315 20
Residential Development Solutions
Countrywide Residential Development Solutions 
comprises the former Land & New Homes 
businesses reported in Estate Agency and 
Hamptons together with Preston Bennett, the 
leading new homes business acquired at the 
beginning of 2014. In 2015 we acquired 
Ikon Consultancy, a residential and mixed-use 
consultancy focused on providing a range of 
high quality added value services to private, 
public and housing association clients working 
across the wider regeneration sector, and a 
new homes hub from Greene & Co.
Performance was varied across the network 
in 2015. Strong results in London and Preston 
Bennett, together with the addition of Ikon and 
the Greene & Co hub, were offset by weaker 
performances in the regions, which are heavily 
reliant on the Group’s branch network.
Developing a full service offering for developer 
clients, particularly SMEs, is a core strategy 
within Building our Future. Combining our 
resources in this area and forging even greater 
links with our Commercial team will allow us 
to present a joined up full service proposition 
from land acquisition and sale, viability studies, 
design and development, planning and 
consultancy services, including valuation, 
project management and conveyancing 
right through to marketing and sale of the 
completed units. 
Moving into 2016 we are rolling out the 
successful new homes sales hub operating 
model, focusing our teams on client relationship 
development. Our data indicates that we are 
2.5 times more likely to sell a home via the 
hub model than the distributed branch network. 
Furthermore, the average development sold 
through our hubs is 67 units compared to 
the average of nine-unit developments sold 
via the branches. These large-scale sites 
deliver economies of scale and attract more 
large developments.
Also we are pleased to announce the 
acquisitions of Lanes Property Agent (Cheshunt) 
and Lanes Land in January 2016, a land and 
new homes businesses operating in Enfield 
and Hertford, for £2.8 million. Complementing 
Preston Bennett’s geographical reach in the 
northern home counties, this business sits 
squarely within our hubs’ operating strategy.
We consider the new homes market to be 
a big opportunity in the UK underpinned by 
the Government’s desire to build one million 
new homes by 2020. We will continue to grow 
our business in this area by opening hubs 
and acquiring specialist businesses to support 
our overall proposition.
Lambert Smith Hampton
2015 was the second full year for the 
business post-acquisition as part of the 
Countrywide Group. 
The year was notable on many fronts including 
very healthy year-on-year improvement in 
terms of both revenue and EBITDA growth 
of 65%. This has been supported by our 
acquisition programme in the sector and 
healthy commercial markets both in London 
and the regions, which aligns well with the 
business’ regional footprint. The core business 
purchased in 2013 continued to grow steadily 
throughout the year. Excluding the contributions 
from the acquired businesses the like-for-like 
revenue grew by 6% to £73 million with 
EBITDA contribution rising by 5%. The 
Northern Ireland team, acquired in 2014, 
was perfectly placed to provide transactional 
and consultancy services to existing Lambert 
Smith Hampton clients, making Ireland the 
second most profitable region.
Lambert Smith Hampton continued in 2015 
to execute upon its strategy, which includes 
both building upon its core service lines and 
strengthening by acquisition where we cannot 
develop easily through organic growth. 
Our three acquisition highlights in 2015 were:
• 
ES Group, a well respected, 260-strong 
consultancy-led business with a major 
presence in many UK regions. The firm is 
a market leader in providing valuation and 
corporate recovery advice to banks and 
accountancy firms and is also at the 
forefront of the fast-growing alternatives 
market, particularly in hotels, healthcare 
and education. 
• 
Tushingham Moore, which is the largest 
retail property specialist outside of London. 
Their team of consultants has provided 
expert integrated agency offering to the 
retail industry for over 20 years. Not only 
will Tushingham Moore increase Lambert 
Smith Hampton’s retail and leisure profile 
across the UK, it will deliver synergy 
opportunities via our shopping centre 
management expertise in our Belfast office.
• 
Douglas Newman Good Commercial, 
one of the most respected commercial 
property advisors in Ireland. The business 
manages over 2 million sq ft of assets, 
generating income in excess of €45 million 
each year. Key clients include AIB, Bank of 
Ireland, Grant Thornton, NAMA, State Street 
and T esco. Coupled with our market leading 
commercial presence in Northern Ireland 
this significantly strengthens our presence 
across many markets.
Our Commercial strategy is twofold. Building on 
the opportunities presented by the acquisitions, 
Lambert Smith Hampton will drive organic 
growth in retail and leisure industries and 
increasing its reach in Ireland. Meanwhile, the 
business will continue to search for suitable 
complementary businesses to acquire to 
strengthen its product and service range for 
clients. We will continue to grow our Lambert 
Smith Hampton commercial business by 
focusing on building recurring revenue streams 
attached to the consultancy side of the 
business. Our strategy remains to recruit top 
quality professionals to enhance our existing 
service offerings and acquire value-accretive 
commercial businesses that either provide 
us with complementary service opportunities 
or enable us to grow service lines where 
recruitment has been difficult and demand 
is high, such as building consultancy.
Outlook
We will continue to drive value for the Group 
through our strong businesses underpinned 
by resilient corporate relationships, 
significant recurring revenue streams 
and scalable opportunities.  Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 32
Strategic report
Segmental review continued
B2B continued
Victoria Centre
Our Lambert Smith Hampton Belfast office was established following 
our acquisition of BTW Shiells, Northern Ireland’s leading advisor, in 
June 2014. The LSH Belfast office provides a full Asset and Property 
Management service on behalf of Commerz Real for Victoria Square, 
Northern Ireland’s prime retail scheme – attracting footfall of 
185,000 a week. 
The retail-led mixed-use scheme is located in the heart of Belfast, with 
a lettable area of 921,358 sq ft, including a 229,547 sq ft two-level 
basement car park of 954 spaces, operated by Q Park. The centre 
comprises four trading levels and includes 99 units and restaurants, 
and an eight-screen cinema operated by Odeon. Anchored by House 
of Fraser, the centre boasts an unrivalled mix of high-end fashion retailers 
and iconic brands such as Apple, River Island, and Tommy Hilfiger. 
The unique aspect of Victoria Square in Northern Ireland is that it is a 
place to shop, relax, live and work, with the centre including a residential 
element of 106 apartments. Victoria Square is a ‘neighbourhood’ and  
the dome covered public space is a hub connecting the walkways on  
the River Lagan, the rejuvenated Cathedral Quarter, and the city centre. 
We’ve thrived from the opportunity to work this asset and improve 
the shopping and leisure experience for both the local community and 
the wider area. In 2015, we installed free public WiFi to benefit the 
community and managed an annual rent roll of just over £16 million, 
with 25 retail units let since our appointment, including Samsung, 
Five Guys, and STA Travel. We completed rental negotiations as part 
of proactive asset management to ensure retention of key brands, 
and delivered lease renewal and lease re-gears, including full shop 
refits. We also retendered two main service contracts for Cleaning, 
Security and Associated Services and Mechanical, Electrical and 
Associated Services, achieving cost savings and enabling us to bring 
in over £2 million through full service charge management.
We’re delighted to work with Commerz Retail, and we are currently 
advising on an internal signage package for the centre and assisting 
with climate improvement proposals for reduction of wind and rain 
through the open streetscape. 
The integration of BTW Shiells has proved truly fruitful, with fantastic 
partnerships such as this enabling our further growth in Ireland, 
including the acquisition of Douglas Newman Good Commercial 
in July 2015. We believe that this work further consolidates LSH’s 
position as the number one firm providing trusted on-the-ground 
advice in every part of the country.
Victoria Centre
Case  
study
Total income (£m)
219.1
+20%
Conveyances completed 
(number)
34,851
-4%
116.6
33,285
2013
2013
182.3
36,441
2014
2014
219.1
34,851
2015
2015
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
32.3
+51%
Exchanges – new homes 
(number)
5,187
+11%
Corporate properties under 
management (number)
32,049
-6%
13.4
4,172
35,656
2013
2013 2013
21.4
4,690
34,164
2014
2014 2014
32.3
5,187
32,049
2015
2015 2015
Surveys and valuations 
(number)
357,033
+7%
330,121
2013
332,290
2014
357,033
2015
KPIs Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 33
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Group financial review
We delivered a mixed performance in 
challenging market conditions, whilst laying 
down the foundations for future progress in line 
with our strategy. We have continued to acquire 
and integrate businesses during 2015 and 
we have put in place the financing we need 
to achieve the next phase of our strategy.
Jim Clarke
Group chief financial officer
Segmental results*
Total income EBITDA
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Variance
%
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Variance
%
Retail 254,451 265,651 (4) 43,343 58,621 (26)
London 177,982 172,635 3 34,162 37,107 (8)
Financial Services 80,994 76,439 6 20,709 18,586 11
B2B 219,051 182,315 20 32,302 21,363 51
Central Services 1,258 5,161 (76) (17,539) (14,574) (20)
Total Group 733,736 702,201 4 112,977 121,103 (7)
* Previously reported results for 2014 have been restated to align with the new segmental structure. 
Introduction
Countrywide delivered a mixed performance 
in a challenging period which saw the impact 
on our estate agency business of lower 
levels of housing transactions than in 2014. 
We have continued to invest both organically 
and non-organically throughout the year to 
ensure we have the foundation for future 
growth. The benefits of this strategy are 
evident in the performance from both our 
Financial Services and Surveying Services 
(B2B) businesses where prior investments 
in resource capacity have produced results 
which are ahead of their respective markets. 
Our intent, as laid out in our Building our Future 
strategy, is to increase our resilience to the sales 
cycle volatility, both organically and through 
acquisition, and broaden the Group’s business 
to deliver a strong future and sustainable 
long term value for our shareholders. 
Accordingly, we have put in place the financing 
we need to fund our planned growth, having 
agreed a new banking facility in February 2016. 
Our strategy requires an increase in net 
debt levels, as we invest in the organic and 
non-organic elements required to keep us 
on target to achieve our 2020 objectives.
Results
• 
Group income was 4% higher at 
£733.7 million (2014: £702.2 million) 
reflecting growth in three of the four 
business units.
• 
EBITDA declined by 7% to £113.0 million 
(2014: £121.1 million) principally as a 
result of challenging conditions in the 
residential estate agency market and 
investment in our lettings business.
Our business units reported improvements 
in income, with the exception of Retail 
where challenging market conditions were 
exacerbated by the disruption of restructuring 
during the year. In Retail, 2015 has been a 
period of consolidation and investment in 
our estate agency and lettings operations, 
with significant acquisition investment in the 
latter to provide foundations for the next 
stage of our growth. However, Financial 
Services and Surveying Services (within B2B) 
delivered market-beating performances, with 
encouraging progress from our Commercial 
operations within B2B. Our central costs are 
likely to increase in coming years as the 
Group continues to grow.
Income statement, cash flow 
and balance sheet items
Depreciation and amortisation
We continue to show separately the 
depreciation and amortisation that relates 
to assets purchased for use in the business 
and amortisation arising on those intangible 
assets that have been recognised as a result 
of business combinations. The underlying 
depreciation and amortisation charge increased 
by £5.9 million, the principal drivers of 
which were increases of: £1.5 million and 
£2.7 million for computer software and 
hardware, respectively, as a result of the 
strategic investment to replace our 
infrastructure through the seven-year 
outsourcing partnership with CGI which 
commenced in 2012; and £1.4 million 
in respect of leasehold improvements 
as a result of the programme of branch 
refurbishments. Amortisation of intangible 
assets recognised through business 
combinations has increased by £1.1 million 
as a result of the incremental rate of growth 
in acquisitions during the year. Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 34
Strategic report
Group financial review continued
Income statement, cash flow 
and balance sheet items continued
Depreciation and amortisation continued
Whilst we expected amortisation charges 
to increase due to our acquisition strategy, 
it should be noted that £6.6 million of the 
annual charge relates to intangible assets 
recognised in 2007, when the Group was 
taken private, which will end in 2017.
Share-based payments
Share-based payment charges are also 
reported separately on the face of the 
profit and loss account. The most significant 
element of this charge relates to a specific 
scheme established at the point of the IPO in 
2013 when 7.2 million options were granted 
to employees who were former equity holders 
of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd under the IPO 
Plan. The majority of these nil-cost options 
vested based on adjusted Group EBITDA 
for 2014 in March 2015 (80%) and the 
residual balance due to directors will vest 
in March 2016. The charge to the income 
statement in 2015 was £3.3 million 
(2014: £10.6 million).
In addition, we also operate annual grants 
under a three-year Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) to senior managers which commenced 
in September 2013. These are nil-cost options 
which will vest subject to certain performance 
criteria disclosed within the remuneration report. 
The credit for the year was £0.5 million 
(2014: £2.1 million charge) as performance 
targets were not met. Our SIP scheme also 
has a three-year vesting period and, having 
only commenced in October 2013, the cost 
is incrementally growing and will build over 
time to around £0.9 million in 2016. 
Contingent consideration
As a result of an increasing number of 
acquisitions during the year that, for commercial 
reasons, comprise a significant element of 
employment-linked contingent consideration, 
which is deemed remuneration under IAS19 
‘Employee benefits’ , we have decided to report 
these costs, amounting to £8.9 million, 
separately from underlying profits with further 
details in notes 6 and 29 ‘employees and 
directors’ and ‘acquisitions during the year’, 
respectively, as the short term impact on the 
underlying business results would be material 
and distort underlying business performance.
Each of these contingent consideration 
arrangements require the vendors to remain 
in employment and, as such, have been treated 
as a post-combination employment expense, 
have been excluded from consideration, and 
are being accrued over the relevant periods 
of one to three years specific to each of 
the agreements. 
Some of this contingent consideration is also 
subject to performance conditions being 
satisfied, with target EBITDA levels which 
must be achieved in order to realise the 
full payment, with a reduced payment made 
if targets are not fully met. Accruals for 
contingent consideration will therefore be 
reviewed at each period as future earn-out 
assumptions are revisited and any credits 
to the income statement in respect of 
downward revisions to estimates would 
be reported in the same way. 
Exceptional items
We have reported net exceptional costs of 
£13.6 million, which comprises non-recurring 
costs of £16.1 million principally arising 
as a result of the strategic restructuring 
undertaken during the year, offset by 
£2.5 million of deferred income in respect 
of our contract with Zoopla (which ended 
at 31 December 2015). 
Exceptional costs related to the strategic 
restructuring undertaken during the year 
have been analysed in further detail within 
note 10, but principally comprise: £6.1 million 
impairment charges from writing down a 
number of brands which have been rationalised 
as part of our review of the London market 
place; £3.3 million in respect of redundancy 
costs as a result of the costs incurred in 
implementing the new organisational design, 
with related recruitment costs of £0.5 million; 
and £3.3 million in respect of consultancy 
costs. A number of property restructuring 
costs were also incurred as a result of our 
strategic decision to bring our teams 
together in Oxford Street. However, the 
dilapidations and onerous leases costs 
of mothballing other offices has largely been 
offset by the £0.8 million profit generated by 
the sale of our Grosvenor Square leasehold, 
resulting in a net cost of £0.4 million. The 
net cash spend in 2015 on the strategic 
restructuring was £6.9 million.
Professional indemnity claims
During 2015 we received, as expected, 
reduced numbers of professional indemnity 
valuation claims and achieved significant 
successes in a number of challenging cases. 
The majority of claims received continue 
to relate to the period 2004 to 2008 and 
most are over six years since the survey was 
performed. The underlying trend of valuation 
claims arising since 2009 is very low and 
below those experienced before the decline 
in the property market. This is testament to 
the enhanced risk and compliance monitoring 
implemented over the past few years.
Estimating the liability for PI claims is highly 
judgemental, especially as we are now 
dealing with the more complicated cases. 
We have updated our financial models to 
reflect the latest inputs and trends and taken 
advice from our panel of lawyers in respect 
of open claims. During 2015 our experience 
was in line with expectation and the provision 
is unwinding as planned. While sensitivities 
have been applied to these models, any 
significant change in claims experience could 
have an impact on results, good or bad.
Finance charges
During 2015, our drawdown on bank 
borrowing facilities increased from £120 million 
to £200 million. Consequently, our finance 
costs have increased by £0.8 million and are 
now incurred at a margin of 1.75% over LIBOR.
Taxation
Our total tax charge for 2015 of £5.9 million 
(2014: £11.7 million) represents an effective 
tax rate of 12.5% (2014: 14.7%). The principal 
reasons for the lower effective rate are: the 
impact of the future reduction in the tax rate 
in restating deferred tax liabilities generated 
a £3.3 million tax credit; and realisation of 
share-based tax relief of £1.7 million. 
Countrywide’s business activities operate 
predominantly in the UK. All businesses are 
UK tax registered apart from small operations 
in Hong Kong and Ireland. We act to ensure 
that we have a collaborative and professional 
relationship with HMRC and enjoy a low 
risk rating. We conduct our tax compliance 
with a generally low risk approach whilst 
endeavouring to maintain shareholder value 
and optimise tax liabilities. Tax planning is 
done with full disclosure to HMRC when 
necessary and being mindful of reputational 
risk to the Group. Transactions will not be 
undertaken unless they have a business 
purpose or commercial rationale.  Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 35
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
In addition to our corporation tax contribution, 
our businesses generate considerable tax 
revenue for the Government in the UK. For 
the year ended 31 December 2015, we will 
pay corporation tax of £8.5 million (2014: 
£17.2 million) on profits for the year, we collected 
employment taxes of £172 million (2014: 
£132 million) and VAT of £99 million (2014: 
£95 million), of which the Group has incurred 
£61 million and £2.5 million (2014: £47 million 
and £1.9 million) respectively. Additionally 
we have paid £12 million (2014: £11.0 million) 
in business rates and collected £35.5 million 
(2014: £42.6 million) of stamp duty land tax 
though our conveyancing business. 
Cash flow
Net cash generated from operating activities 
decreased by £22.8 million to £65.2 million 
for the year (2014: £88.0 million), representing 
29.7 pence per share (2014: 40.1 pence). 
Both years have been impacted by payments 
to settle PI claims. Payments in 2015 were 
lower than expectations at £10.8 million 
(2014: £14.4 million) principally due to the 
timing of settlements.
Capital expenditure
Total capital expenditure on tangible 
assets in the year amounted to £19.7 million 
(2014: £23.9 million), principally relating 
to the programme of planned branch 
refurbishments, and an additional £5.4 million 
(2014: £6.1 million) has been incurred 
on software, which has been treated 
as an intangible asset.
Net assets
At 31 December 2015, our net assets 
per issued share were £2.48, a total of 
£544.6 million (2014: £531.6 million) and an 
increase of £13.0 million, or 2%, driven by 
a post-tax profit for the year of £41.8 million, 
offset by dividend returns to shareholders 
of £32.9 million.
In February 2016, we sold around 50% of 
our holdings in Zoopla Property Group plc 
and the £19.1 million proceeds will be 
returned to shareholders. We will continue 
to monitor opportunities with regard to 
our remaining stake.
Net debt
At 31 December 2015 we had cash balances 
of £24.3 million (2014: £28.6 million) and 
a £200 million revolving credit facility (RCF) 
drawn down (2014: £100 million term loan 
and £20 million revolving credit facility 
drawn) and finance leases of £10.1 million 
(2014: £12.3 million). (Full details of net debt 
are shown in note 21.) The £81.8 million 
increase in net debt arose principally as a 
result of net outflow on acquisitions amounting 
to £62.9 million during the year.
Shareholders’ funds amounted to £544.6 million 
(2014: £531.6 million) giving balance sheet 
gearing of 25% (2014: 16%). Net debt 
represented 21% of the Group’s market 
capitalisation at 31 December 2015, and 
163% of the Group’s adjusted EBITDA for 
the year.
Committed bank facilities
The Group’s available bank facilities 
(excluding overdraft arrangements available) 
at 31 December 2015 comprised a 
£250 million RCF repayable in March 2018.
In February 2016, the Group increased its 
borrowing capacity to facilitate the strategic 
plans announced during 2015. We have 
renegotiated our existing £250 million RCF, 
to a £340 million RCF with the existing 
lenders and accompanying £60 million 
accordion facility repayable in 2020.
The basic terms of the facility remain unchanged 
although there is greater flexibility on the 
leverage covenant levels. It is our intention 
to take advantage of the current interest 
swap rates to fix a significant proportion 
of this facility.
Dividend policy 
There has been no change to the Group’s 
previously stated policy (as detailed in the 
chairman’s statement within the 2014 annual 
report) in respect to normal dividends, 
which will remain unchanged at 35–45% of 
underlying profit after tax. Underlying profits 
are illustrated separately on the face of 
the income statement and are measured as 
profit after tax but before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, contingent 
consideration and share-based payments. 
This policy aligns with the Group’s strategic 
plan, which requires an increased level of 
investment to deliver significant EBITDA 
growth and enhance shareholder returns. 
In February 2016, we sold 8,659,302 
Zoopla shares realising £19.1 million, which 
will be returned to shareholders by way of 
a share buyback programme. We continue 
to hold 9,234,473 Zoopla ordinary shares. 
The Board has the potential to re-introduce 
special dividends from 2017.
Whilst there are always potential risks (see our 
principal risks detailed below) and constraints 
associated with dividend resources to deliver 
any dividend policy, the key judgements 
exercised in relation to the current year 
dividend proposal, which aligns with the 
stated dividend policy and will be subject 
to approval at the AGM, have been:
• 
distributable profits: the parent company 
balance sheet (see page 123) demonstrates 
significant headroom in terms of available 
distributable profits, providing coverage of 
both the proposed dividend and additional 
headroom for future delivery of normal 
dividends under the stated policy;
• 
availability of cash: the parent company 
can access available cash within the Group 
by the declaration of dividends within 
underlying subsidiaries (which also 
generates further distributable profits at 
the parent company level) or by choosing 
to call in intercompany balances or accessing 
external funding (undrawn facilities of 
£50 million at 31 December 2015); and 
• 
debt covenants: the Group has sufficient 
headroom for both the proposed dividend 
and additional headroom for future delivery 
of normal dividends under the stated policy.
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 10.0 pence (net) per share 
(2014: 10.0 pence), giving a total 2015 
dividend of 15.0 pence (net) per share 
(2014: 24.0 pence, including a 9.0 pence 
special dividend). Subject to approval at the 
AGM, to be held on 27 April 2016 the dividend 
will be paid on 5 May 2016 to shareholders 
on the register at 29 March 2016.
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
25 February 2016 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 36
Strategic report
Corporate sustainability
Our people
To achieve our vision, our customers need 
to be at the heart of everything we do. For 
this to happen all of our people need to be 
connected to our purpose, inspired to be the 
best they can be, feel valued, engaged and 
committed to providing a brilliant customer 
experience. To expect this of our people we 
need to make sure that they have a great 
experience from the moment they consider 
joining Countrywide and throughout their 
career with us. To do this we will engage 
our people at every single touchpoint of 
this journey, building our employee value 
proposition, communicating clearly, bringing 
our values to life and creating an environment 
where people can excel.
Developing a high performance culture
To support our leaders to effectively lead 
through organisational change, embed our 
values and drive business performance, we 
held a series of senior leadership events in 
November and December 2015.
The first event on leading change through 
culture and values helped leaders understand 
more about their own leadership brand, 
examining culture and behaviours to 
positively reflect our values in the actions 
and conversations we have with our people 
and customers. 
The second event ‘conducting powerful 
conversations’ was a practical event which 
provided leaders with the tools, techniques 
and mindsets to conduct powerful 
conversations with their teams, focusing 
on driving performance.
13 workshops were held over a seven-week 
period, reaching over 100 leaders across 
the business. 
We believe that great people plus a great environment 
will deliver a world-class experience for our people  
and our customers.
We now plan to roll out an adapted 
version to the wider leadership team 
to enable a consistent approach to 
performance management.
Development and training
New apprenticeship and graduate recruitment 
schemes continue to deliver across several 
divisions of the Group, alongside City & Guilds 
accredited training for employees within our 
retail operations. This includes the opportunity 
of sponsorship to achieve recognised 
professional qualifications that are relevant 
to our sector. We provide full visibility of 
who we are and expertise we have through 
our online Register of Property Agents  
(www.agencypro.co.uk). The Register provides 
assurance that our people meet the requisite 
standards of professionalism that our customers 
will expect when we advise them and represent 
their interests during one of the most significant 
transactions that they are likely to undertake 
in their lifetime.
Making sure we attract the best talent is 
fundamental to the continued growth of 
Countrywide. It is only by investing in our 
people and ensuring they have the right 
tools to do their job in a safe and positive 
environment that we can be recognised 
as one of the best places to work in the UK.
LISTENING TO OUR PEOPLE – MYCOUNTRYWIDE SURVEY
In 2015 we completely overhauled our 
employee engagement survey, aligning 
it to our Building our Future strategy, to 
provide more insightful data across our 
strategic focus areas and support clear 
action planning. 
Over 9,000 employees shared their feedback. 
That is an increase of 9% compared to 
2014 and over 1,000 more responses 
giving us a better understanding of how 
people truly feel working for Countrywide. 
Overall our engagement score increased 
to 70% compared to 2014. Over 75% of 
those surveyed felt inspired by our purpose 
and understood our strategy – both showing 
strong increases on 2014 results.
Only through taking action on the feedback 
received and working together to make 
the right improvements can we deliver 
performance improvements. We are 
determined to improve again in 2016 with 
a mid-year pulse survey to track the impact 
of our action plans. Across Countrywide 
we will continue to listen to our people and 
make the changes that bring us ever closer 
to being recognised as one of the best 
places to work in the UK.
employees shared 
their feedback
9,000+
I’ve grown as a person  
and leader through this 
training and it’s completely 
changed the way I now 
approach meetings and 
lead my teams. I’ve already 
seen improvements in how 
the team engages and 
collaborates as a result. Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 37
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
during 2015. Countrywide also supports two 
national charities – Shelter (helping the 
homeless) and Cancer Research UK.
The subsidiary businesses are also 
encouraged to support causes within their 
local communities, and employees from 
across the country participated in a number 
of local initiatives. We operate in local markets, 
our people are local and our brands are 
local, making our contribution to the local 
community an important part of our 
charitable giving.
Equal opportunities
We are committed to a policy of equal 
opportunity and diversity in employment and 
recognise that this is essential to ensuring 
the success and growth of the organisation. 
To this end, we make every effort to select, 
recruit, train and promote the best candidates 
for the job. 
Communication
Through impactful, clear, and honest 
communication we connect our people to 
our purpose and inform, engage and inspire 
them. To do this we work collaboratively with 
our leadership teams across Countrywide 
providing insight, guidance, expertise and 
tools to support performance and drive 
business growth. 
Our Communication Business Partners provide 
a deep understanding of how employees 
think, feel and act across our four business 
units (BU) of Retail, London, B2B and 
Financial Services. 
From newsletters to events, people roadshows 
to video interviews, we use the most relevant 
channels to reach all our employees and will 
continue to expand our reach in 2016 with 
the launch of a new Group-wide intranet. 
Our people are also encouraged to become 
shareholders in the Company. The Group 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) has been running 
successfully since its inception in October 
2013. It is open to all employees with more 
than 18 months’ continuous service and the 
Company gives one matching share for every 
two shares purchased by the employee 
(within the maximum investment terms 
established by HMRC). 
Employee engagement –  
The Great Tour
In the Summer of 2015 we were thrilled to 
support The Great Tour, in tandem with CTC, 
the national cycling charity. Britain’s ultimate 
cycling challenge is a 64-day circumnavigation 
of coastline starting in Holyhead and 
finishing in Anglesey, a route which covers 
6,800 kilometres. As lead sponsor we were 
able to provide a fantastic opportunity for 
people to take part no matter what level their 
fitness, connecting with colleagues from all 
over our business to complete the challenge.
Over 300 riders from Countrywide took part 
in The Great Tour, participating in every single 
stage of the event, with many more supporting 
along the way. Six charities partnered with 
the cycling event: Alzheimer’s Society; 
Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research; 
Macmillan Cancer Support; Action for A-T; 
Anthony Nolan; and CTC. We raised over 
£35,000 for these fantastic causes.
Charitable giving
Countrywide supports a workplace charitable 
giving scheme so that employees can donate 
to their favourite charities tax efficiently through 
payroll deduction, donating over £18,000 
Being the Countrywide Great Tour Ambassador is an 
experience I’ll never forget. I met loads of Countrywide 
colleagues, all tackling massive personal goals and 
with smiles on their faces (most of the time!) in aid 
of some fantastic causes. I’ve made friends for life  
over the 64 days and I truly appreciate the support 
I received from my family and Countrywide  
throughout – it was awesome. 
James Dowling 
Our Countrywide Great Tour Ambassador
has been raised by our employees 
for local charities and communities 
in 2015 
£70,000+ Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 38
Strategic report
Corporate sustainability continued
GENDER DIVERSITY
Directors
3
6
Employees
7,023
5,777
Senior management*
26
76
Male Female
*  ‘Senior management’ comprises employees with 
responsibility for planning, directing or controlling 
the activities of the Group or a strategically 
significant part of it. (Directors of subsidiary 
companies are included only to the extent that 
the subsidiary is significant in the context of the 
Group as a whole.)
Equal opportunities continued
To treat all employees and applicants fairly, 
regardless of race, gender, marital status, age, 
nationality, ethnic origin, religious belief, sexual 
orientation or disability, and to ensure that no 
employee suffers harassment or intimidation.
Employment opportunities are available to 
disabled persons in accordance with their 
abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with 
other employees. If an employee becomes 
disabled during employment, we make every 
effort to enable them to continue employment 
by making reasonable adjustments in the 
workplace and retraining for alternative work 
where necessary.
Human rights
While the Group is accountable to investors, 
we take into account the interest of all our 
stakeholders, including our employees, our 
customers and our suppliers, as well as the 
local community and the environment in 
which we operate.
Countrywide’ s reputation is one of its key assets 
and, as a major player in the UK property 
services sector, adhering to the highest 
standards of integrity, personal conduct, 
ethics and fairness is deemed to be of 
vital importance.
Due to the regulatory requirements in the UK 
we have judged that human rights are not a 
material risk for the business. We do, however, 
work closely with our third-party external 
suppliers to ensure their human rights and 
ethics policies are aligned with those of 
Countrywide. Our support function in India, 
WNS, has a foundation called WNS Cares 
Foundation. It takes care of providing 
education and a lot of other facilities and 
benefits to the children in the society. This 
foundation exists in all the countries WNS 
operates from and is actively involved in 
child education. More information on the 
foundation can be found by visiting  
www.wnscaresfoundation.org.
Health and safety
The health and safety, welfare and wellbeing 
of employees is of paramount importance 
to us. It is our policy to create and improve 
standards of health and safety, which will 
lead to the avoidance and reduction of risks 
and ensure that the Company complies with 
all health and safety legislation. A detailed 
health and safety policy statement is held 
at all branch premises and displayed on 
the notice boards.
Information security
We are committed to ensuring the integrity 
and security of business information, with 
particular attention given to personal and 
sensitive data where inappropriate use or 
inadequate maintenance and safeguarding 
could have serious repercussions.
Our policies and procedures are based 
on requirements for a secure operating 
environment, an assessment of the risks that 
the Group faces and relevant legal and best 
practice requirements. We have achieved, 
and maintain, the ISO 27001 accreditation 
in our major business to business operating 
divisions and aspire to operate in line with 
the International Standard for Information 
Security Management, ISO 27001, in all of 
our major retail operations.
Environmental matters
Environmental savings make good business 
sense. Our primary objective is to minimise 
our carbon footprint and any negative impact 
we have on the environment. We recycled 
over 876 tonnes of rubbish during 2015.
We are committed to the following:
• 
to meet or exceed the requirements 
of relevant legislative, regulatory and 
environmental codes of practice;
• 
to identify, reduce and dispose of waste 
arising from our operations in a manner 
that minimises harm to the environment and 
prevents pollution of land, air and water;
• 
to reduce the consumption of energy and 
water and use renewable and/or recyclable 
resources wherever practicable;
• 
to encourage our suppliers and 
subcontractors to implement good 
environmental practices and procedures 
which support our own objectives 
and targets; and
• 
to take responsibility for the maintenance 
and revision of our environmental policy, 
which is reviewed on a regular basis, in order 
to set environmental objectives and targets 
for continuous improvement, as we recognise 
the need for sustainable development.
During 2015 we recycled over
876 tonnes
of rubbish Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 39
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Employees are encouraged 
to dispose of all paper 
waste in secure bins,  
of which
100%
 is recycled
THE FOLLOWING INITIATIVES ARE IN PLACE:
• 
We use printing paper which is chlorine 
free and carries the FSC Kitemark and 
which is compliant with ISO 9001:2008, 
ISO 14001:2004 and is OHSAS 
80001:2007 certified. We currently 
recycle 80% of paper across the Group. 
• 
We launched local initiatives to ensure 
branches recycle office waste and our 
head office recycles all waste and uses 
fair trade produce. We are working in 
partnership with a waste management 
provider with the aim to increase our 
recycling volumes to zero waste to 
landfill by the end of 2017.
• 
Employees are encouraged to dispose 
of all paper waste in secure bins, 100% 
of which is recycled.
• 
We recycle used printer cartridges 
and mobile phones. 95% of our toner 
cartridges are recycled in partnership 
with our printer suppliers.
• 
Epayslips were introduced for all Group 
employees in 2010, which reduced 
our carbon footprint and print and 
postal costs.
• 
With effect from July 2011, we opted to 
ensure that all newly ordered Company 
vehicles had a CO
2
 emission of no 
greater than 160gsm. This was further 
reduced to a cap of 130gsm on the 
introduction of a new fleet policy in 
January 2013.
• 
In 2011 we launched a Cycle to Work 
scheme, in order that employees can tax 
efficiently purchase bicycles for cycling 
to work.
• 
During 2013 we introduced a half hourly 
meter pilot to monitor and reduce 
electricity usage and also commenced 
a voltage optimisation pilot to reduce 
energy consumption.
Greenhouse gas emissions
For our greenhouse gas emissions 
disclosures, please see the directors’ 
report on page 69. Corporate  
governance
41 Chairman’s introduction to corporate governance
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance statement 
46 Report of the Nomination Committee
48 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
54 Directors’ remuneration report
67 Directors’ report
70 Directors’ responsibilities statement Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 41
We continued to strengthen 
corporate governance as reflected 
in the Board effectiveness review.
Chairman’s introduction to corporate governance
Dear shareholder
Your Company continues to be led by a strong 
and balanced Board, which is well qualified 
to challenge, motivate and support the 
management of the business. In the 2014 
annual report, the Group announced the 
start of a strategic review (‘Building our Future’) 
which commenced implementation in the first 
half of 2015. The Group now has a revised 
corporate strategy for the years to 2020. 
The Board was necessarily closely involved 
in the formulation and approval of the strategy, 
which the executive team is now tasked with 
delivering for shareholders and stakeholders.
Whilst there have been no changes in the Board 
during 2015, I indicated my desire to step down 
from the role of chairman once a successor 
was identified and in post. The Board authorised 
the Nomination Committee to engage in 
the search and selection process for a new 
chairman and this activity commenced in the 
final quarter of 2015. Further details on this 
process and external support are detailed 
in my report of the Nomination Committee 
on page 46. On 11 February, the Company 
announced that I will retire as non-executive 
chairman, and we will confirm the new 
appointment of Peter Long as chairman at 
the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2016, 
subject to FCA approval.
The Nomination Committee will continue 
to review the composition of the Board to 
ensure that we have the right balance of skills, 
experience, diversity and independence to 
support the future development of the Group.
The Board acknowledges the insights to 
be gained from an external evaluation of 
its effectiveness and that of its Committees 
for helping to identify key areas for future 
improvement or focus. A Board evaluation 
review was commissioned during 2015, led 
by myself and facilitated by Lintstock Limited, 
an independent corporate advisory firm. 
The initial phase of this review has concluded 
during February 2016 and the process is 
discussed in further detail on page 47.
The Board understands the importance of 
presenting a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and 
prospects and of the importance of effective 
reporting, risk management and internal 
control procedures. As part of the strategic 
planning process, the Group reviewed its 
risk appetite and ensured that there were 
governance improvements to align our risk 
and internal audit capabilities as detailed 
within the Audit and Risk Committee report 
on pages 48 to 53. The appointment of 
a chief risk and compliance officer, with 
appropriate levels of additional dedicated 
resource, and the appointment of Deloitte LLP 
as the Group’s internal auditor using a full 
outsourced model (following a period of 
co-sourcing), provided an integrated 
assurance plan and a more co-ordinated 
approach to the Group’s risk management 
and audit activities. 
Your Board is fully committed to supporting 
both the principles and application of best 
practice in corporate governance. I believe 
that we continued to strengthen effective 
corporate governance procedures during 
2015 and these will underpin the continued 
success of the Group.
Future priorities
As chairman, my main responsibility is to lead 
the Board and ensure that it is operating 
effectively and focusing its time, energy and 
attention on the right areas. Following the 
recent completion of the externally facilitated 
Board effectiveness review, we will agree a 
set of priorities against which we will report 
progress in future years to ensure that we, 
as a Board, are leading from the front in 
providing the right example for Countrywide.
I am pleased that Peter Long has accepted 
the role of chairman and would like to welcome 
him to Countrywide. Peter is chairman of 
Royal Mail plc and is a member of TUI AG’s 
supervisory board, having previously held 
a variety of senior roles in the travel and 
leisure sector. He was formerly senior 
independent non-executive director of 
RAC plc (2001–2005) and Rentokil Initial plc 
(2005–2014), and was also non-executive 
director of Debenhams plc (2006–2009). 
Peter brings a strong customer focus and 
a wealth of plc board experience.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
25 February 2016
Your Board remains strongly committed to ensuring 
that Countrywide maintains and continuously 
improves the structures and processes required  
to underpin the effective delivery of its growth 
strategy. We believe that good governance is an 
essential part of the way we conduct our business 
on a daily basis, while maintaining effective risk 
management, control and accountability. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 42
Board of directors
As at the date of signing the directors’ report,  
the following people were directors of the Company:
Grenville Turner
Chairman
Alison joined the Group in 
September 2014. Alison 
was previously managing 
director at Bupa, responsible 
for international development 
markets, and has held 
a range of senior posts 
including chief operating 
officer of the UK private 
hospitals business at Bupa 
and a number of key 
positions in British Airways. 
In June 2012 Alison joined 
the board of Cable & Wireless 
Communications plc as 
a non-executive director, 
and between 2009 and 
2013 Alison was chair of 
‘Opportunity Now’, which 
seeks to accelerate change 
for women in the workplace. 
Alison was also a non-
executive director of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) between 2005 
and 2010, and in the 2011 
New Year Honours Alison 
was appointed a CMG for 
her services to the board 
of the FCO.
In January 2016, the 
Board also announced 
the appointment of 
Alison as an independent 
non-executive director to 
the Board of Tesco PLC with 
effect from 1 April 2016.
David joined the Group 
in September 2013 as 
non-executive director 
of the Company (and was 
previously chairman of the 
Audit and Risk Committee 
before being appointed as 
deputy chairman). David is 
currently a non-executive 
director of Charles Taylor 
plc, Kames Capital plc, 
Hermes Fund Managers 
Limited and T R Property 
Investment Trust plc. He 
chairs the audit committees 
of Charles Taylor plc, 
Hermes Fund Managers 
Limited and T R Property 
Investment Trust plc. He 
has extensive industry and 
accounting experience. 
David has had a 
distinguished career as 
a finance director. Most 
recently he was finance 
director for the general 
insurance division of Aviva 
and prior to that he held 
various other senior 
financial roles at Aviva as 
well as Prudential Group 
and NatWest Markets. David 
is a chartered accountant 
and a graduate of City 
University Business School.
Jim joined the Group in 
November 2007. He was 
previously finance director 
and company secretary of 
JD Wetherspoon and has 
previously worked for 
David Lloyd Leisure 
(a division of Whitbread plc) 
and HP Bulmer Holdings 
plc. Jim is a graduate of 
Stirling University and he 
qualified as a chartered 
accountant in 1984.
Grenville joined the Group 
in August 2006 and became 
Group chief executive in 
January 2007. Taking the 
Group private in 2007, 
he then led the Group’s 
return to the public market 
in 2013 and became 
non-executive chairman 
on 1 September 2014. 
Grenville has almost 40 
years’ experience in retail 
banking and the property 
sector. Past directorships 
have included Rightmove.
co.uk, St James’s Place Plc, 
Sainsbury’s Bank Plc and 
Realogy, the largest realtor 
in the US. In addition to 
being non-executive 
chairman of Countrywide 
plc, Grenville is currently 
chairman of Knightsbridge 
Student Housing Ltd, 
Titlestone Ltd and 
Bellpenny Ltd. He is also 
a non-executive director 
of Zoopla Property Group, 
English National Ballet 
and DCLG. Grenville is 
a qualified chartered 
banker and holds an 
MBA from Cranfield 
School of Management.
None None
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer 
David Watson
Deputy chairman 
and senior independent 
non-executive director
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
N N A R
None
Peter Long
Chairman designate
Independent  
non-executive director
Peter was appointed 
non-executive director 
of the Company on 
11 February 2016. 
Peter will take over as 
non-executive chairman 
following the Company’s 
AGM on 27 April 2016, 
subject to FCA approval. 
Peter is chairman of Royal 
Mail plc, and having ceased 
to be joint chief executive 
of TUI AG, with effect from 
9 February 2016 is a 
member of TUI AG's 
supervisory board. Prior 
to this, he held a variety 
of senior roles in the travel 
and leisure sector. He was 
formerly senior independent 
non-executive director 
of RAC plc (2001–2005) 
and Rentokil Initial plc 
(2005–2014). He was also 
a non-executive director 
of Debenhams plc 
(2006–2009). Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 43
Key to Committee membership:
A Audit and Risk Committee  N Nomination Committee   R Remuneration Committee   Chairman of Committee 
Cathy was appointed 
non-executive director 
of the Company and 
chairman of the Company’s 
Remuneration Committee 
on 31 July 2013. She 
is also a non-executive 
director and chairman of 
the remuneration committee 
of Aldermore PLC. She is 
an honorary fellow of 
UNICEF UK and a member 
of the board of the Royal 
College of Art. She 
has extensive industry 
experience working with 
Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & 
Young and Towers Watson 
in her early career. She 
subsequently joined 
Barclays PLC, where she 
was a member of the group 
executive committee with 
responsibility for human 
resources, corporate 
affairs, strategy and brand 
and marketing. During her 
time with Barclays she was 
also director of investor 
relations for four years and 
had extensive experience 
in remuneration in her 
many roles. She was chief 
administrative officer of 
Lloyds Banking Group PLC. 
Cathy is a graduate of the 
University of Lancaster.
Richard was appointed 
non-executive director of 
the Company in June 2014 
and chairman of the 
Company’s Audit and Risk 
Committee in August 2014. 
A chartered accountant 
qualifying with KPMG in 
1982, Richard has nearly 
30 years’ experience as a 
finance director of private 
and listed businesses. Since 
April 2007 Richard has 
been group finance director 
of Carillion plc and before 
that of Associated British 
Ports Holdings plc. Richard 
is also senior independent 
non-executive director of 
Countryside Properties plc 
where he chairs the audit 
committee. He was 
previously non-executive 
director and chairman of 
the audit committee of 
SSL International plc. 
Richard is a graduate of 
the University of Reading.
Jane was appointed 
non-executive director of 
the Company in June 2014. 
She has spent her career in 
broadcast media, including 
chief executive officer of 
Channel 5 Broadcasting for 
five years until 2008. She 
was formerly non-executive 
director at Paddy Power plc 
and a senior independent 
director at Trinity Mirror and 
is currently a Trustee of the 
Royal Television Society. 
Rupert was appointed 
non-executive director of 
the Company in June 2014. 
He is chairman of the Board 
of Trustees of Historic Royal 
Palaces, and he has a range 
of board positions, at both 
chairman and director level 
in a variety of businesses, 
with a strong consumer bias. 
Most recently he was chief 
executive officer of Odeon 
and UCI Cinemas Group 
between 2005 and 2014. 
He was previously at the BBC 
where he was chairman 
and chief executive of BBC 
Worldwide and also at BT 
where he was managing 
director of the consumer 
division, prior to which he 
was at the Dixons Stores 
Group latterly as deputy 
managing director.
Caleb Kramer joined the 
Group in May 2009 and 
was appointed as a director. 
He is a managing director 
and portfolio manager 
(Europe) at Oaktree Capital 
Management (UK) LLP. 
Prior to joining Oaktree in 
2000, Caleb co-founded 
Seneca Capital Partners LLC, 
a private equity investment 
firm. From 1994 to 1996, 
Caleb was employed by 
Archon Capital Partners, 
an investment firm. Prior 
to 1994, Caleb was an 
associate in mergers and 
acquisitions at Dillon Read 
and Co. Inc. and an analyst 
at Merrill Lynch and Co. Inc. 
Caleb received a BA degree 
in economics from the 
University of Virginia.
None
Cathy Turner
Independent 
non-executive director
Richard Adam
Independent 
non-executive director
Jane Lighting
Independent 
non-executive director
Rupert Gavin
Independent 
non-executive director
Caleb Kramer
Non-executive director
R A N N N N A A R R R
 Chairman 1
 Executive directors 2
 Independent non-executive directors 6
 Non-independent non-executive director 1 Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 44
Introduction
Corporate governance statement 
This corporate governance report intends to give shareholders a clear understanding 
of Countrywide’s corporate governance arrangements and their operation within the Group 
during the year, including an analysis of the level of compliance with the principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code ('the Code') issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
in September 2014. The Code can be viewed at www.frc.org.uk.
Compliance with the 2014 Code
The directors have considered the contents 
and requirements of the Code and note the 
following instance of non-compliance: the 
appointment of Grenville Turner as chairman 
on 1 September 2014, having held the position 
of chief executive officer immediately prior 
to that date, results in non-compliance with 
provision A.3.1 of the Code that a chief 
executive should not go on to be chairman of 
the same company. Additional counterbalances 
have been identified in the report of the 
Nomination Committee on page 46. (Whilst 
Grenville did not meet the independence 
criteria set out in B.1.1 of the Code on 
appointment, following his appointment 
the test of independence is not appropriate 
in relation to the role of chairman.)
The corporate governance report includes 
pages 44 to 53. Additional information 
in respect of the operation, and terms of 
reference, of the Remuneration Committee 
is included within the separate directors’ 
remuneration report.
The role of the Board, decision 
making and division of responsibilities
The Board provides leadership to the Group 
and is collectively responsible for the long term 
success of the Company. It sets the strategy 
and oversees its implementation, ensuring that 
acceptable risks are taken and appropriate 
governance structures and controls are in 
place. It ensures that the right people and 
resources are in place for the Group to meet 
its objectives, review management performance 
and deliver long term value to shareholders 
and other stakeholders.
In pursuit of these leadership objectives, 
the Board retains control of key decisions 
and has in place a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for its approval which 
can be found at www.countrywide.co.uk/
investor-relations/corporate-governance/. 
The Board retention of decision making and 
control of these key areas ensures effective 
stewardship and risk management by providing 
integrated reporting, e.g. in respect of strategic 
priorities and associated risk and mitigating 
governance controls. 
Specific decisions reserved for the Board are summarised as follows:
Responsibility Specific actions during the year
Strategy and 
direction
Approval of strategy 
and annual budgets.
Authorisation of 
acquisition and 
disposal activity.
Review of internal 
control arrangements 
and affirmation  
of risk management 
strategies.
Risk management 
and accountability 
controls
Approval of financial 
statements, other 
updates to the market 
and recommendations 
on dividends.
Approval of authority 
levels and financial 
and treasury policies.
Review of internal 
control and risk 
management, 
including health 
and safety.
Governance Appointments to 
and removals from  
the Board.
Terms of reference for 
and membership of 
the Board.
Review of governance 
arrangements.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are 
separated, clearly defined and approved by the 
Board. A copy of the division of responsibilities 
between the roles of the chairman and the 
chief executive is available to view on the 
corporate governance section of the 
Company’s website. 
The Board delegates matters to the three 
Board Committees (Audit and Risk, Nomination, 
and Remuneration), in line with their terms of 
reference and the formal schedule of matters 
reserved for Board approval. Further information 
on the work of these Committees during the 
year can be found in each of their separate 
reports following this corporate governance 
introduction and the specific terms of reference 
for each of the Committees can be found on 
the governance section of our website. The 
Board delegates the detailed implementation 
of matters approved by the Board and the 
day-to-day operational aspects of the 
business to the executive directors. 
Effectiveness
The Board and its Committees continue 
to benefit from an appropriate balance of 
expertise, experience, independence and 
knowledge of the Group and its business 
sectors. At 31 December 2015, the Board 
comprised two executive and seven 
non-executive directors. 
The Nomination Committee considers 
the skill set and sector experience of the 
Board, appointments to the Board, director 
development and succession planning. 
Details of these activities and the process 
of Board evaluation and development are 
discussed in the Nomination Committee 
report on pages 46 to 47.
The Board has ten scheduled meetings 
during the year; additional meetings are 
arranged if required. The Board Committee 
meetings are scheduled around the regular 
Board meetings. The directors’ attendance 
at the scheduled Board meetings and Board 
Committee meetings is shown in the table 
opposite. Attendance is expressed as the 
number of meetings that each director 
attended out of the number they were 
eligible to attend as chairmen or Committee 
members (i.e. excluding attendance where 
this was by invitation only). Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 45
Director Date of appointment
Board
meetings
Audit and Risk 
Committee 
meetings
Nomination 
Committee 
meetings
Remuneration 
Committee 
meetings
Grenville Turner
2
19 February 2013 10/10 — 1/2 —
Alison Platt 1 September 2014 10/10 — — —
Jim Clarke 28 December 2012 10/10 — — —
Caleb Kramer
1
19 February 2013 7/10 — — —
David Watson
2
2 September 2013 10/10 4/4 1/2 4/4
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 10/10 4/4 2/2 4/4
Richard Adam 9 June 2014 10/10 4/4 2/2 4/4
Jane Lighting
1
9 June 2014 9/10 3/4 2/2 3/4
Rupert Gavin
1
25 June 2014 9/10 — 2/2 4/4
Peter Long 11 February 2016 n/a n/a n/a n/a
1   Caleb Kramer was engaged in various overseas activities which meant that his attendance at Board meetings was intermittent. Rupert Gavin and Jane Lighting were also absent from 
each of the specific meetings above due to unexpected, unavoidable personal commitments.
2  Grenville Turner and David Watson were not present at the second Nomination Committee meeting as a result of the formation of a separate independent sub-committee.
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover for its directors and officers. The Company has made qualifying 
third-party indemnity provisions (as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors during the year; these provisions 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Independence
The Code notes that the Board should identify 
in the annual report each non-executive director 
that it considers to be independent. Excluding 
the chairman, each of the non-executive 
directors is considered to be independent, 
with the exception of Caleb Kramer as he 
holds the position of managing director at 
Oaktree Capital Management (UK) LLP, a 
substantial shareholder of the Company. As 
stated above, Grenville Turner was not deemed 
to be independent prior to his appointment 
as chairman on 1 September 2014. 
The Code recommends that at least half the 
Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise 
non-executive directors determined by the 
Board to be independent. Excluding the 
chairman, there are six (of a possible seven) 
non-executive directors determined to be 
independent and two executive directors, 
and therefore the Board complies with 
recommendation B.1.2. Similarly, the 
composition of the three Board Committees 
complies in all respects with the independence 
provisions of the Code.
Accountability
The Board remains committed to presenting 
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Group’s position and prospects and 
of the importance of effective reporting, risk 
management and internal control procedures. 
Both the Audit and Risk Committee and the 
Board received drafts of the annual report to 
facilitate review and provide an opportunity 
for challenge and discussion.
The Board is responsible for determining 
the nature and extent of the significant risks 
it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. Principle risks associated with the 
Group’s business are summarised on pages 21 
to 23 of the strategic report. The Board has 
an Audit and Risk Committee which monitors 
and reports on the Group’s risk management 
systems. The Audit and Risk Committee 
also considers how the Board should apply 
corporate reporting and internal control 
principles and is responsible for maintaining 
an appropriate relationship with the Group’s 
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
The report of the Audit and Risk Committee 
is set out on pages 48 to 53.
Remuneration
Details relating to the Company’s policy on 
remuneration together with the level and 
components of remuneration available to 
the Company’s directors are provided in 
the Remuneration Committee’s report 
on pages 54 to 66.
Dialogue with shareholders
As chairman, I ensure that the views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board 
as a whole and offer non-executive directors 
the opportunity to attend discussions with 
major shareholders. David Watson, as senior 
independent director, attends a significant 
number of these meetings to ensure that he 
develops a balanced understanding of any 
issues arising and can provide context back 
to the Board Committees (as he sits on all 
three Committees).
We actively seek channels through which 
to engage with investors and during 2015 
the Company undertook a wide variety 
of investor relations activities. Institutional 
shareholders represent the largest group 
of shareholders and much of the activity is 
focused on this group. The chief executive 
officer and chief financial officer host or attend 
the majority of the events held, whilst key 
senior executives also participate in meetings 
and activities with institutional shareholders.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by 
the Board. The prime means of communication 
with the majority of our shareholders is via 
the interim and annual reports, supplemented 
by interim trading updates, which aim to 
provide shareholders with a clear understanding 
of the Group’s activities and results. General 
presentations are given to both shareholders 
and analysts following the publication of 
the interim and annual results and at other 
appropriate points, e.g. Capital Markets Day 
in October 2015, to share the strategic plans 
and offer an opportunity to engage with the 
business unit managing directors and other 
senior executives.
Constructive use of the AGM
Shareholders have the opportunity to address 
questions to the chairman and the chairmen 
of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees at the AGM, where 
all directors will be in attendance. All 
shareholders are encouraged to attend 
the AGM. Shareholders wishing to lodge 
questions in advance of the AGM, or to 
contact the Board at any other time, are 
invited to do so by writing to the company 
secretary at the registered address given 
on page 131.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
25 February 2016 Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 46
Report of the Nomination Committee
Dear shareholder
2015 saw the Committee focus on Board 
evaluation and Board Committee composition 
and succession planning, including my own 
desire to step down as chairman.
Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for ensuring 
that the composition of the Board and its 
Committees is appropriate and enables it to 
function effectively. This requires evaluation 
of the balance of skills, experience, knowledge 
and diversity and the resultant identification 
of any gaps, either in the short, medium or 
longer term, and recommendations to address 
these. Succession planning for key Board 
positions forms part of our wider remit and, 
as such, we have insight into the Group’s 
Leadership and Development Programme.
We are also responsible for agreeing the 
annual Board effectiveness review process 
and monitoring any actions arising.
Committee composition
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below:
Member Nomination Committee member since
Grenville Turner (chairman) 1 September 2014
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013
David Watson 2 September 2013
Richard Adam 9 June 2014
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
There has been no change in composition of 
the Committee during the year. We therefore 
remained in full compliance with the Code 
recommendation that a majority of members 
should be independent non-executive 
directors throughout the year.
Attendance by members at the meetings 
is shown on page 45.
The Committee’s work
The Committee held two formal meetings 
during 2015 which were to commence 
the process for the Company’s appointment 
of a new chairman. The main matters that 
the Committee considered during the year 
are described on the following page.
Board and Committee composition 
The matter considered by the Committee in 
its meeting in October 2015 was in light of 
my decision to step down as non-executive 
chairman. The Board authorised the Committee 
to establish a sub-committee, excluding me 
due to having a potential conflict of interest, 
to engage in the search and selection 
process for a new chairman. Cathy Turner 
was appointed to chair the sub-committee 
and lead the process of identifying a suitable 
successor as chairman. 
In this initial meeting to commence the search 
process, the Committee considered the skills 
and experience desired in my successor 
and prepared a candidate profile. The 
sub-committee appointed an independent 
search and selection agency, Ridgeway 
Partners, to assist in the search for suitable 
candidates. Ridgeway Partners has no prior 
connection with the Group. An initial list of 
potential candidates was presented to the 
non-executive directors for consideration 
and discussion. Following this first scoping 
meeting, which I had been invited to attend 
and comment on alongside the other 
directors, I then stepped down from active 
participation and formal decision making 
and did not form part of the sub-committee 
tasked with locating and appointing 
my successor.
The Committee’s terms of reference  
are available at: 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance
2015 saw the Committee focus 
on Board evaluation and succession 
planning, including my own desire  
to step down as chairman.  Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 47
Following interviews by Ridgeway Partners, 
this initial list was reduced to a shortlist of 
three potential external candidates who were 
initially interviewed by Cathy Turner and 
Alison Platt. At their meeting in December 
2015, the sub-committee considered this 
final shorter list of preferred candidates.
In making their recommendations to the Board 
in 2016, the sub-committee specifically 
considered the existing non-executive 
experience and skill sets and the desirable 
experience in suitable candidates to ensure 
the right mix of skills and experience as the 
Company evolves. The sub-committee chairman 
led the selection process, interviewing 
a selection of shortlisted candidates and 
proposing a narrower list of possible appointees 
to be interviewed by the remainder of the 
Board. Following these interviews, and based 
upon a combination of feedback from all of 
the interviewers, the sub-committee met to 
agree the preferred candidate and proposed 
remuneration terms. The remuneration terms 
were formulated using independent data 
provided to the sub-committee by New 
Bridge Street (advisors to the Remuneration 
Committee) and an annual fee of £180,000 
was agreed. The sub-committee chairman 
made recommendations to the Board 
based upon the consensus expressed 
by all interviewers.
The Company believes that diversity of 
experience and approach, including gender 
and race diversity, amongst Board members 
is of great importance and it is the Company’s 
policy to give careful consideration to issues 
of Board balance and diversity when making 
new appointments. The search for candidates 
and any subsequent appointments are, 
therefore, made purely on merit regardless 
of gender, race, religion, age or disability 
in order to secure an appropriate balance 
of skills and attributes that are needed to 
ensure effective stakeholder engagement 
and deliver the business strategy. 
Given our commitment to appointing the 
best people and ensuring that all employees 
have an equal chance of developing their 
careers within the Group, we do not think 
it is appropriate to set targets for Board 
appointments. As gender diversity remains 
a topic of significant discussion, we note that 
three of the nine members of our Board are 
female. In addition to Board diversity, we 
believe in promoting diversity at all levels 
of the organisation and further details of our 
workforce diversity are set out on pages 37 
and 38.
Following appointment to the Board, all 
directors received a tailored induction 
programme, providing an opportunity to gain 
an understanding of the Group business and 
organisation, operations and governance 
environment, allowing them maximise their 
contributions to the Board as quickly as 
possible. Key stages of the induction 
programme are: provision of documents in 
relation to the Board, strategy, performance 
and corporate governance; meetings with 
the executive directors to gain an overview 
of the business, current trading and key 
commercial issues; meetings with other 
directors and senior executives to discuss 
commercial issues and projects; and site 
visits, as required, to key locations to 
gain an understanding of the business 
and operations.
All directors are also offered subsequent 
training to suit their needs and continuous 
professional development requirements. 
All directors also have access to the advice 
and services of the company secretary in 
addition to access to independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense where they 
judge it necessary to discharge their duties 
as directors.
The more strategic issue of succession planning 
for executive and non-executive roles was 
also considered as part of the wider Building 
our Future strategic review and associated 
restructuring of the executive team during 
the year. As part of the organisational redesign, 
core skills and capabilities were reviewed 
against the requirements of the Group and 
candidates for key positions were interviewed 
and assessed by Talent Q, an external advisory 
company with no connection to the Group, 
to conclude independent assessments prior 
to appointment and ensure the development 
of executive strength within the Group. 
In addition, we have also invested in our senior 
management development programme during 
the year. To support our leaders to effectively 
lead through organisational change, embed 
our values and drive business performance, 
we held a series of senior leadership events 
in November and December 2015 in addition 
to an ongoing programme of leadership 
skills training.
Board effectiveness 
At the start of the year, an internal evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, its Committees, 
the directors and the chairman was conducted 
using an internal questionnaire process, as 
previously adopted. For the Board itself, this 
process was led by the chairman and included 
separate discussions with each director as 
required to follow up on specific feedback 
and is supported on an ongoing basis by 
the practice of the chairman meeting with 
the non-executive directors, without the 
executive directors being present, following 
each Board meeting. In respect of evaluation 
of the performance of the chairman, this was 
conducted by the deputy chairman by 
discussion with each of the non-executive 
directors without the chairman or executive 
directors being present. For the Board 
Committees the process was collated 
by the company secretary and responses 
and actions were discussed and agreed 
at the respective Committees. 
During the year, the Board appointed an 
independent agency, Lintstock, to conduct 
a formal externally facilitated evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, its Committees, 
the directors and the chairman in compliance 
with the Code recommendation for triennial 
external evaluation. Lintstock have no prior 
connection with the Group. 
The Board has instructed Lintstock to provide 
a phased three-year plan:
• 
2015: during November 2015, 
questionnaires were distributed to all 
directors to cover: full Board review; individual 
performance review; chairman review; 
and review of each of the three Board 
Committees. These questionnaires were 
also supplemented to include Lintstock 
interviews with each of the directors;
• 
2016: completion of questionnaires 
as detailed above; and
• 
2017: completion of questionnaires 
as supplemented again by Lintstock 
and interviews with each of the directors. 
By 2017, following the appointment of 
a new chairman during 2016, the Board 
memberships will have been in operation 
for a full year and will thus provide a well 
grounded base of experience to refresh 
an effective discussion of opportunities 
to improve Board effectiveness.
As the initial phase of this process has 
concluded in such close proximity to 
preparation of the annual report, with the 
final report due to be tabled for Board 
consideration on 30 March 2016, details 
of the conclusions from the external 
Board evaluation process and resultant 
recommendations, and progress against these, 
will be provided in our 2016 annual report.
Following the internal performance evaluation 
conducted during the year, I am pleased 
to confirm the effective performance of 
each non-executive director and the time 
commitment of each non-executive director. 
I am therefore confident that each of them 
would be in a position to discharge their duties 
to the Company in the coming year and, 
accordingly, as detailed in the notice of the 
AGM, all directors will stand for re-election.
Grenville Turner
Chair of the Nomination Committee
25 February 2016 Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 48
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to report how the Committee 
discharged its responsibilities during the 
2015 financial year, setting out the key 
tasks undertaken and major areas of activity. 
Members of the Committee have continued 
to take an active role in overseeing the business 
and the risks and challenges it faces and 
have benefited from continued improvement 
in the control and risk framework following: 
the appointment of Deloitte as internal 
auditor in the first quarter of 2015; and 
the appointment of the Group chief risk 
and compliance officer during the second 
quarter of 2015.
Role and responsibilities
The Committee’s role is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its financial oversight responsibilities by:
• 
assessing the integrity of the Group’ s financial 
reporting and satisfying itself that any 
significant financial judgements made 
by management are sound;
• 
evaluating the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management systems and internal 
controls; and
• 
scrutinising the activities, performance, 
independence and effectiveness of 
the auditor. 
The assurance framework required by the 
Committee is provided by complementary 
contributions from management reports, 
internal and external audit reports, and 
risk management and compliance reports. 
However, as chairman of the Committee 
I have also held meetings with the 
Company’s internal (Deloitte) and external 
(PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP) auditors, 
the chief financial officer, the chief risk and 
compliance officer and senior members of 
the Group finance department, and other 
senior executives in which key issues relevant 
to the Committee’s work were discussed.
I will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about the 
work of the Committee.
Richard Adam
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
25 February 2016
The Committee’s terms of reference  
are available at: 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance
Members of the Committee have 
continued to take an active role 
in overseeing the business and have 
benefited from continued improvement 
in the control and risk framework.  Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 49
How the Audit and Risk Committee works
Committee composition
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below:
Member
Audit and Risk Committee  
member since
Richard Adam (chairman) 9 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013
David Watson 2 September 2013
There have been no changes to the 
composition of the Committee during 2015 
and therefore the Committee remained in full 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’) recommendation of a 
minimum of three independent non-executive 
directors throughout the year.
The Code requires at least one member of 
the Committee to have recent and relevant 
financial experience. Two members of the 
Committee (Richard Adam and David Watson) 
are considered by the Board to have 
competence in accounting and recent and 
relevant financial experience. Both have 
professional qualifications with the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of England and 
Wales. The biographies of each member 
of the Committee are set out on pages 42 
to 43.
Attendance by members at the meetings 
is shown on page 45. Meetings were 
held at key times within the reporting and 
audit calendar and were also attended by 
the chief financial officer, the Group chief 
risk and compliance officer, the Group 
financial controller, the company secretary 
and the Group’s external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). In 
addition, internal risk management and 
compliance representatives and other advisors, 
including the Group’s outsourced internal audit 
providers, Deloitte, were invited to attend. 
The Committee held regular private sessions 
with both the external and internal auditors 
which were not attended by management.
The Committee’s work
The Committee has an annual work plan, 
developed from its terms of reference, with 
standing items that the Committee considers 
at each meeting in addition to any matters 
that arise during the year. In addition to its 
annual performance evaluation, undertaken 
as part of the wider external Board evaluation 
process, the Committee carried out a review 
of its terms of reference to align with best 
practice and developments in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
The agendas for the four scheduled meetings 
of the Committee during 2015 were organised 
around the Company’s reporting schedule. The 
chairman of the Committee reports at each 
subsequent Board meeting on the business of 
the Committee meeting and recommendations 
made by the Committee. The main matters 
that the Committee considered during the 
year are described below.
Financial reporting and 
significant judgements
Financial reporting
The Board and the Committee have reviewed 
this annual report, the half-year financial 
statements, as well as the going concern basis 
of preparation of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements at these points, in particular 
the underlying assumptions and sensitivities.
We considered the presentation of the financial 
statements and, in particular, the compliance 
with financial reporting and disclosure 
requirements associated with the Group’s 
premium listing. In respect of each of these 
matters, the Committee reviewed papers 
presented by management and discussed 
critical judgements and estimates inherent 
within the conclusions, providing challenge 
where necessary. The Committee also reviewed 
the reporting from the external auditor, 
incorporating accounting and reporting 
matters, internal control findings and their 
management representation letter to ensure 
that these matters had been considered and 
consistent conclusions had been reached.
The Committee assesses whether suitable 
accounting policies have been adopted and 
whether management has made appropriate 
estimates and judgements. The Committee 
also considered the Group’s existing tax 
strategy and concluded that management’s 
current approach remained appropriate.
At the request of the Board, the Committee 
also considered whether the 2015 annual 
report was fair, balanced and understandable 
and whether it provided the necessary 
information for the shareholders to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. The Committee took into account 
its own knowledge of the Group, its strategy 
and performance in the year; internal 
verification of the factual content within the 
document; comprehensive reviews undertaken 
at different levels in the Group to ensure 
consistency and overall balance; and the 
detailed review by senior management and 
the external auditor. After careful review 
and consideration of all relevant information, 
the Committee was satisfied that, taken as 
a whole, the annual report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and has affirmed that 
view to the full Board. 
Prior to the publication of both the half and 
full-year results for the Group, the Committee 
undertook a detailed assessment of the 
appropriateness of the adoption by the 
Group of the going concern basis in the 
preparation of the financial statements. 
For further information in respect of the 
going concern, please refer to the directors’ 
report on page 69.
Prior to the publication of the full-year results 
for 2015, the Committee undertook a detailed 
assessment of the viability statement and 
recommended to the Board that the directors 
can believe that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over the three-year period 
of their assessment. For the detailed viability 
statement, please refer to our risk section 
on page 20 of the strategic report. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 50
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued
Financial reporting and significant judgements continued
Financial reporting continued
Accounting judgements and estimates
In the year under review, the Committee considered the following significant matters, which include an element of judgement, in relation to 
the financial statements.
Matter Action the Committee has taken
Professional indemnity 
provisions
Given the materiality of the professional indemnity provision, the Committee receives regular updates on the 
status of the provision which includes the status of existing claims, including legal updates on those cases which 
are individually significant, and the number and nature of new claims arising.
At the year end, we reviewed the methodology and resultant professional indemnity provision prepared by 
management and compared the emerging pattern of settled claims to assess whether the methodology and 
assumptions remained appropriate. 
Where management has updated its financial models to reflect the latest inputs and trends, and to accommodate 
aged claims where there is limited prior experience on which to statistically model outcome, as well as taking into 
account available information in respect of all open claims, we have provided robust challenge to any underlying 
assumptions adopted in respect of claim rates, claim liability rates, average loss per claim and provisions on 
discrete cases of significance based on current legal advice.
The Committee concluded that the methodology and assumptions adopted were reasonable, but note that evaluating 
these potential liabilities is highly judgemental and in smaller populations of claims, including older, more complex 
cases, estimates can be significantly affected by the outcome, good or bad, of a limited number of claims. 
Accordingly additional sensitivity disclosures have been provided in note 3.
Impairment of goodwill 
and intangibles with 
an indefinite life
Management provided the Committee with a paper supporting the carrying value of the goodwill and, where relevant, 
the brand names in each of the cash generating units of the Group. Following the restructuring undertaken during 
the year, London business unit management conducted a review of brands and concluded an initial rationalisation 
of brand usage. As a result, management had identified that a charge of £6.1 million was required to write off the 
brand names, which would cease usage entirely and impair those which would only be supported by a lower 
number of branches.
We reviewed the discounted cash flows and sensitivities prepared by management, discussing assumptions 
adopted and resultant levels of headroom. Based on the work performed, the Committee concurred that: 
• 
a prudent approach underpinned the conclusion of no impairment being required in respect of goodwill; and
• 
the impairment charge of £6.1 million identified by management in respect of brand names was appropriate 
and, having arisen as a result of the strategic review, concluded as part of the restructuring during the second 
half of the year, would be disclosed as an exceptional charge. 
Acquisition accounting 
including assignment 
of fair values and the 
treatment of contingent 
consideration
During 2015, the Group continued to acquire companies and standalone lettings books as part of its ongoing 
programme of growth of lettings activity. In addition, acquisitions continued in other business units and some 
of these acquisitions have incorporated contingent consideration, rather than solely deferred consideration,  
which is linked to future performance as well as the continued employment of the vendors. 
We reviewed a management paper summarising the acquisitions undertaken during the year, which noted that:
• 
these acquisitions all followed existing models and methodologies in relation to the fair valuation of intangible 
assets. We were therefore satisfied with the fair value accounting approach and intangible asset valuations 
proposed by management; and
• 
a number of the acquisitions included contingent consideration that was linked to both the future performance 
of the business and the continued employment of the vendors. Given the materiality of these costs, which require 
accounting as deemed remuneration, management proposed disclosure of the contingent consideration as 
an employment cost, but isolated from underlying earnings for transparency and comparability between years. 
We discussed the classification and disclosure proposed by management and concurred with the columnar 
presentation adopted on the face of the income statement.
Presentation 
and disclosure of 
exceptional items
As a result of the Group strategic restructuring during the year, material sums have been expended in a number 
of areas which have been deemed as exceptional items. 
Management compiled a summary demonstrating the nature of the expenditure, and the rationale for presenting 
these items as exceptional.
We reviewed this summary, providing challenge to management to demonstrate the robust classification of items 
as exceptional, including consistency of the application of the term to the treatment of debits and credits. Following 
discussion, including with the external auditor at the February Committee meeting, we were satisfied with the 
judgement exercised in the presentation and disclosure of exceptional items.
For more detail in respect of exceptional items see note 10. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 51
The accounting treatment of all significant issues 
and judgements was subject to review by the 
external auditor. For further information on the 
critical accounting estimates and assumptions 
refer to the notes of the consolidated financial 
statements on page 87. For a discussion 
of the areas of particular audit focus by the 
auditor, refer to pages 73 to 74 of the 
independent auditor’s report.
Risk management and internal control
The Board recognises that the successful 
management of risk as part of our everyday 
activities is essential to support the achievement 
of our strategic objectives. Through delegation 
by the Board the Committee is responsible 
for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management systems 
and internal control. Operation of the Group’s 
risk management framework, as detailed 
on page 18, which is designed to support 
consistent and effective management of risk 
throughout the Group is overseen by an 
oversight structure, as detailed on page 20, 
which includes the Committee.
The Board has an ongoing process to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks faced 
by the Group. This was in place throughout 
the year and up to the date of the approval 
of the annual report. This process is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and accords with 
UK Corporate Governance Code guidance. 
Management is responsible for the identification 
and evaluation and management of significant 
risks applicable to its areas of the business 
together with the design, operation and 
monitoring of suitable controls to manage 
risks to an acceptable level. These risks are 
assessed on a continual basis at business 
unit leadership meetings and updated 
accordingly in the Board risk report.
The Committee considered, discussed and 
made decisions in relation to a range of risk 
and internal control-related matters during 
the course of the year, the most significant 
of which are outlined below: 
• 
reviewed the outputs of a review into the 
Group’s risk management practices and 
approved the revisions to the Group’s risk 
management framework;
• 
reviewed, and recommended to the Board 
for approval, changes to the Committee’s 
terms of reference and calendar of duties;
• 
reviewed proposals for the approval of the 
Group’ s risk strategy, risk appetite and policy 
framework, for implementation in 2016; 
• 
reviewed the quarterly Countrywide Group 
Risk Report from the Group Executive Risk 
Committee on the ‘top risks’ facing the 
Group, the relative assessment of impact 
and likelihood and actions underway/
taken to deliver target risk ratings in a 
six-month horizon;
• 
approved the strategic internal audit plan, 
outlining those areas to be covered by the 
work of internal audit during 2015–2017 
and monitored the progress against the 
plan at each meeting. This included updates 
on management actions relating to findings 
and the closure of recommended actions. 
The Committee also receives and approves 
updates on changes to the plan for the 
forthcoming year;
• 
approved the appointment of Deloitte LLP 
as the Group’s internal auditor using a full 
outsourced model, following the annual 
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function and a period of 
co-sourcing, under the direction of the 
Group chief risk and compliance officer; 
• 
received updates from the Group chief 
risk and compliance officer in relation 
to the Group’s FCA regulated operations, 
including regulatory relationship matters 
and outputs from the Financial Services 
business unit’s internal audit committee;
• 
approved the 2016 Group risk function plan, 
outlining the objectives and activities of the 
Group Risk function for the forthcoming year;
• 
monitored the risks and associated 
controls over the financial reporting 
processes, including the process by which 
the Group’s financial statements are 
prepared for publication;
• 
reviewed reports from the external auditor 
on any issues identified during the course 
of its work, including a report on control 
weaknesses identified; 
• 
reviewed, and recommended for approval, 
the Group’s risk management disclosures 
for inclusion within the annual report and 
accounts, including the consideration of 
the Group’s ‘viability statement’ as required 
under the Code; and
• 
reviewed arrangements by which employees 
have access to a confidential whistle-blowing 
hotline operated by an independent third 
party and received reports arising from 
this activity. 
After careful review 
and consideration of all 
relevant information, the 
Committee was satisfied 
that, taken as a whole, 
the annual report is 
fair, balanced and 
understandable and 
has affirmed that view 
to the full Board. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 52
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued
Oversight of the external audit 
The Committee’s oversight of the external 
auditor includes reviewing and approving 
the annual audit plan. In reviewing the plan, 
the Committee discusses and challenges 
the auditor’s assessment of materiality and 
financial reporting risk areas most likely 
to give rise to material error. 
PwC reported to the Board and confirmed 
its independence in accordance with 
ethical standards and that it had maintained 
appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its 
independence and objectivity. PwC operates 
a five-year rotation policy for audit partners 
for a listed entity and, as a result of this policy, 
following the publication of our 2014 results 
Chris Burns became the new Group audit 
partner in succession to Darryl Phillips. Before 
completely relinquishing his responsibilities 
in relation to the Group’s audit, Darryl Phillips 
attended the Company’s AGM in April 2015. 
Chris Burns and members of his team attended 
each of the Committee’ s meetings during 2015.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, 
and are, subject to controls by management 
that have been agreed by the Committee 
to monitor and maintain the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor. 
A copy of the non-audit services policy is 
available on our website at www.countrywide.
co.uk/investor-relations/corporate-governance, 
providing details of prohibited, audit-related and 
permitted services. The policy requires approval 
by the chief financial officer of any work 
undertaken by PwC and mandates Committee 
approval, prior to the commencement of 
work, of all non-audit assignments with an 
individual fee above a de minimis threshold 
of £50,000, or going beyond an aggregate 
annual spend of £100,000.
The total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid 
to PwC during the year is set out in the table 
below. In order to maintain its independence 
and objectivity, PwC undertook its standard 
independence procedures in relation to these 
engagements. The Committee received a 
report at each meeting from management 
and PwC regarding the extent of non-audit 
services performed.
Matter
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Audit-related assurance services 44 44
Accounting advisory services 11 —
Tax advisory services 9 60
Due diligence on acquisition targets — 97
Review of risk and governance structure — 19
Access to PwC inform — 1
Non-audit fees 64 221
Audit fees (excluding audit-related assurance services) 606 556
A copy of our non-audit services 
policy is available on our website at:
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 53
Amounts paid to PwC were reported to and 
considered by the Committee. Non-audit 
fees incurred in 2015 represent 10% of 
the recurring base audit fee, falling below 
the 70% cap set by the European Union) 
and will remain subject to scrutiny and 
approval by the Committee. 
We also continued the formal framework to 
conduct our review of the effectiveness of 
the external audit process and audit quality 
and applied this to the completion of the 2015 
Group audit cycle. The framework takes the 
form of an annual questionnaire covering 
all key aspects of the audit, including the 
effectiveness of contribution of divisional 
and Group management to the audit process, 
and is completed by each member of the 
Committee and by the chief financial officer. 
Feedback is also sought from other members 
of the Group finance team, divisional 
management and the Group chief risk and 
compliance officer. Based on responses to 
the questionnaires, management produces 
a report for detailed consideration by the 
Committee. The feedback from this process 
is considered by the Committee and is 
provided to the auditor and to management, 
with action plans developed accordingly 
and reviewed by the Committee. In addition, 
the Committee considers the findings of the 
Audit Quality Review team’s report into the 
conduct of PwC audits generally.
In its evaluation of the external audit function, 
the Committee concluded that it was satisfied 
with the work of PwC and that PwC continued 
to be effective, objective and independent. 
Accordingly, the Committee recommended 
to the Board the reappointment of PwC and 
for this to be put forward to shareholders 
at the 2015 AGM. At the AGM in 2015, 
99.54% (2014: 97.24%) of votes cast by 
shareholders were in favour of reappointing 
PwC as auditor.
The Code requires that the external audit 
contract should be put out to tender at least 
every ten years. As PwC was appointed as 
auditor to the Company in 2007, and has not 
been subject to a retender for the contract 
since then, the Committee intends to put the 
contract out to tender during 2017. However, 
we may put the audit out to tender at any 
time before a regulatory retendering date 
if we were to conclude that this is in the 
Group’s interest. There are no contractual 
obligations restricting our choice of external 
auditor and no auditor liability agreement 
has been entered into.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
issued The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 
(‘the Order’) in September 2014 applicable 
to financial years beginning on or after 
1 January 2015. Our statement of compliance 
with the provisions of the Order in the 
current year is as follows:
• 
the last competitive tender process for 
an auditor appointment was undertaken 
in 2007 and resulted in the appointment 
of PwC; 
• 
the Company proposes that it will complete 
the next competitive tender process during 
2017, which is deemed to be in the best 
interest of the shareholders in order to 
allow full consideration of and preparation 
for the tender process;
• 
the statutory audit fee and the scope of 
the statutory audit have been approved 
between the Committee and the auditor;
• 
the Committee has influenced the 
appointment of the successor to the 
audit engagement partner and only it has 
concluded on his progression in the role 
during 2014–2015, permitting this without 
recourse to a competitive tender process;
• 
only the Committee will initiate and 
supervise the planned competitive tender 
process and make recommendations to 
the Board in respect of any subsequent 
auditor appointments; and
• 
the Committee authorises, prior to the 
commencement of work, the provision 
of non-audit services by the incumbent 
auditor subject to a pre-approval of permitted 
non-audit services with an individual fee 
above a de minimis threshold of £50,000, 
or going beyond an aggregate annual 
spend of £100,000 (full details of the 
policy are available on our website at 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance).
Annual evaluation of 
Committee performance
As part of the overall Board evaluation process, 
the Committee reviewed its performance for 
2015. This evaluation considered areas such 
as the Committee’s processes and support, 
its time management and composition, 
its effectiveness in reviewing the work of 
internal and external audit and in reviewing 
the internal control systems, the quality 
of reporting and management of risk and 
confirmed that the Committee continues 
to be highly effective in undertaking 
its responsibilities.
During the year, the Board appointed an 
independent agency, Lintstock, to conduct 
a formal externally facilitated evaluation 
of the performance of the Board and its 
committees, as noted in our Nomination 
committee report. Since the initial phase 
of this process has concluded in such close 
proximity to the preparation of the annual 
report, full details of the priorities determined 
for the Committee will be provided in our 
2016 annual report. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 54
Directors’ remuneration report
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
our directors’ remuneration report for the 
year ended 31 December 2015. 
This directors’ remuneration report is divided 
into the following three sections:
• 
this annual statement: summarising and 
explaining the major decisions on, and any 
substantial changes to, the directors’ 
remuneration in the year;
• 
the remuneration policy report: setting out 
the basis of remuneration that has applied 
since approval at the 2014 AGM; and
• 
the annual report on remuneration: explaining 
the remuneration earned by the directors 
in the year ended 31 December 2015 and 
a statement as to how the remuneration 
policy will be implemented in 2016.
The remuneration policy is subject to a binding 
vote every three years (sooner if changes are 
made to the policy). The Committee considers 
that the policy, approved by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM, continues to be appropriate 
and therefore no changes have been made 
since shareholder approval. The annual 
report on remuneration is subject to an 
annual shareholder advisory vote and will 
be presented to shareholders at the AGM 
on 27 April 2016.
I hope that you find this report informative in 
respect of how we remunerate and incentivise 
our directors through a remuneration policy 
that is supportive of, and aligned to, the 
Company’s strategic aims and objectives. 
1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items, contingent consideration, share-based payments and share of profits from joint ventures, referred to hereafter as ‘EBITDA’ .
2  Adjusted earnings is calculated on profit for the year before before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, contingent consideration and share-based payments (net of taxation).
3 Including proposed final dividend of 10.0 pence (net) per share.
Our remuneration decisions, in a 
challenging year, demonstrate our 
commitment to operating a strong 
pay-for-performance culture. 
Annual statement
Total ordinary dividends
3
 (p)
 15.0
0%
8.0
2013
15.0
2014
15.0
2015
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m)
 1 13.0
-7%
86.6
2013
121.1
2014
113.0
2015
Adjusted basic EPS
2
 (£m)
32.2
-12%
24.4
2013
36.7
2014
32.2
2015
The Committee’s terms of reference  
are available at: 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 55
2015 performance and reward
During 2015, against the challenging backdrop 
of less than expected residential sales volumes, 
Group EBITDA of £113.0 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 was 7% below 
the £121.1 million EBITDA achieved in 2014, 
which was the most profitable year in the 
Group’s history.
Remuneration is weighted towards variable 
pay, dependent on performance. This ensures 
that there is a clear link between the value 
created for shareholders and the amount 
paid to our executive directors. Performance 
is assessed against a range of financial 
and longer term returns, ensuring value is 
delivered to shareholders and participants 
are rewarded for the delivery of the key 
strategic objectives of the Group, specifically 
growth and returns on a sustained basis. 
In addition, assessment of qualitative measures 
and personal contributions are considered 
as well as financial outturn in determining 
annual bonuses.
The key remuneration outcomes for executive 
directors in respect of 2015 were:
• 
 following a detailed review, the base salary 
of the chief financial officer was increased 
from £300,000 to £340,000, effective 
from 1 June 2015, reflecting his increased 
responsibilities in the revised organisational 
structure implemented to align with 
the strategy;
• 
41.7% of maximum annual bonus (one-third 
to be delivered in shares), reflecting the 
lower level of financial performance of 
the Group and the partial achievement 
of specific executive team objectives 
aligned to the Group’s strategy. For details 
of the 2015 bonus arrangements please 
see page 62 of the annual report on 
remuneration; and
• 
 0% current expectation of vesting of 2013 
LTIP awards for Jim Clarke and Grenville 
Turner (who was chief executive officer 
at the grant date) on 6 September 2016. 
This expected vesting level is directly linked 
to the challenging performance conditions 
attached to these awards which are based 
on EPS performance conditions measured 
over the three years to 31 December 2015 
and relative TSR performance conditions 
measured over the three years to 
18 March 2016.
Remuneration policy for 2016
The Committee regularly reviews the 
remuneration policy for the executive directors 
and senior managers to ensure it is transparent 
and aligned to the interests of shareholders; 
it is weighted to incentivise sustainable 
performance; it is structured to ensure higher 
rewards are only achieved for exceptional 
performance against challenging targets; 
and encourages an appropriate level of risk 
taking commensurate with the risk profile of 
the business. There have been no changes 
to the Board during 2015 and the Committee’s 
most recent conclusions are that the existing 
remuneration policy remains appropriate and 
should continue to operate for 2016. 
The key points to note are as follows:
• 
recognising the increase awarded to the 
chief financial officer during 2015, and the 
chief executive officer’s salary positioning, 
there will be no increase in base salary 
levels of executive directors;
• 
benefits and pension provision are 
considered to be at appropriate levels;
• 
the structure and quantum of the annual 
bonus, with one-third of any award deferred 
into shares, continues to work well. As such, 
the 2016 annual bonus framework will 
remain largely consistent with the 2015 
annual bonus, incorporating both financial 
(70% of the award) and strategic/personal 
targets (30% of the award). The strategic/
personal targets will align with the strategic 
objectives of the Group and represent both 
customer and personal outcomes; and
• 
the long term incentive grant policy, 
whereby nil-cost awards are granted 
annually with vesting based on delivering 
growth in earnings per share (two-thirds) 
and relative total shareholder return 
(one-third) performance conditions and 
continued service, provides a strong 
alignment between the senior executive 
team and shareholders. Reflecting the 
Committee’s desire to incentivise delivery 
of the ambitious strategy, LTIP awards of 
187.5% of salary and 162.5% of salary 
will be granted in 2016 to the chief 
executive officer and chief financial officer 
respectively. These awards are within the 
maximum LTIP limit of 200% of salary 
approved by shareholders.
The Committee believes that the current 
remuneration policy continues to incentivise 
the delivery of strong yet sustainable financial 
results and the creation of shareholder value. 
However, as the policy will come to the end 
of its three-year shareholder approved life 
at the 2017 AGM, the Committee will carry 
out a detailed review of the policy in the 
second half of 2016 and consult with major 
shareholders and representative bodies 
on the Committee’s conclusions.
Further details on how the current policy will 
be applied in practice for the 2016 financial 
year are set out in the annual report on 
remuneration on page 61.
Shareholder support
The Committee was delighted to receive 
positive support from 96% of the shareholders 
who voted on our 2014 remuneration report 
(the annual statement and annual report on 
remuneration) at the AGM on 29 April 2015. 
We remain committed to ongoing engagement 
with our shareholders and take an active 
interest in their views and voting on this 
remuneration report.
Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2016 Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 56
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report
Introduction
With effect from its approval at the Company’s 
first AGM on 30 April 2014, this policy report 
sets out the framework that shapes the 
Company’s remuneration strategy for an 
anticipated period of three years, ensuring 
that the structure and levels of executive 
remuneration continue to remain appropriate 
for the Company. We have chosen to repeat 
the remuneration policy report in line with 
best practice and to ensure transparency 
even though continued presentation is 
not required.
The following section explains: 
• 
our remuneration strategy and policy; 
• 
how this strategy is reinforced by 
alignment of key components of our 
remuneration packages; 
• 
why we have selected the performance 
criteria for variable pay; and 
• 
other information required to provide the 
wider Group context for the directors’ 
service agreements. 
Remuneration strategy
Our remuneration strategy is underpinned 
by remuneration packages that are designed 
to motivate high performing people to 
deliver our strategy. These packages: 
• 
are transparent and aligned with the 
interests of our shareholders; 
• 
are weighted to incentivise performance 
over the short and long term; 
• 
are structured to ensure higher rewards are 
only achieved for exceptional performance 
against challenging targets; and 
• 
encourage management to adopt a level 
of risk commensurate with the risk profile 
of the business as approved by the Board.
Summary remuneration policy
The Committee remains of the view that the remuneration policy continues to be appropriate and therefore there has been no change to the  
policy from the prior year (and indeed the 2014 AGM). The key components of the remuneration packages offered to our directors are as follows:
Future policy table
Component Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity Applicable performance measure
Salary and fees
• 
To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation  
of high performing people
• 
To reflect their experience and importance  
to the business
• 
Fixed annual sum normally payable monthly and 
reviewed annually
• 
Review reflects changes in scope of role and responsibility, 
personal and Group performance increases throughout the  
rest of business
• 
Salary of newly appointed directors may be phased to take 
account of experience
• 
The maximum annual salary increase will not normally exceed the average increase which 
applies across the wider workforce
• 
The Committee is guided by the general increase for the broader employee population but may 
decide to award a lower increase or a higher increase for executive directors to recognise, for 
example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, to apply salary progression 
for a newly appointed director and/or to take account of relevant market movements
• 
n/a
Benefits
• 
To provide support and protection and the 
ability to focus on effective delivery
• 
Benefits currently include company car allowance, private  
medical insurance and life assurance. Other benefits may be  
provided where appropriate
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Annual bonuses
• 
To incentivise the delivery of stretching short 
term business targets and strategic and/or  
personal objectives
• 
To recognise performance through variable 
remuneration, allowing flexible control of the 
cost base and response to market conditions
• 
All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the 
Committee at the beginning of the year and payments 
determined after the year end, based on performance 
against targets
• 
One-third of any bonus payable from 2014 will normally 
be deferred into options/awards over ordinary shares with 
a three-year vesting period
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) may be 
payable on awards to the extent they vest
• 
120% of salary
• 
Majority (if not all) based on 
financial targets
• 
Minority based on personal/ 
strategic targets
• 
Malus and clawback provisions 
operate for deferred bonuses
Long Term Share 
Incentive plans
• 
To incentivise value creation over the long 
term and reward execution of our strategy 
• 
To align the long term interest of directors 
and shareholders
• 
To promote retention
• 
Annual grant of awards
• 
Structured as nil-cost options/conditional awards
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) 
may be payable on awards to the extent they vest
Grant policy
• 
Up to 150% of salary per annum
Maximum limit
• 
200% of salary per annum
Exceptional limit
• 
300% of salary per annum
• 
Earnings per share, financial 
targets and/or total shareholder 
return-related targets
• 
25% vests at threshold increasing 
to 100% vesting at maximum
• 
Malus and clawback provisions 
operate Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 57
Statement of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Company
The remuneration policy described within 
this report provides an overview of the 
structure that operates for the most senior 
executives in the Group. The remuneration 
policy for the executive directors is more 
heavily weighted towards variable pay than 
for other employees to make a greater part 
of their pay conditional on the successful 
delivery of the business strategy.
This aims to create a clear link between 
the value created for shareholders and the 
remuneration received by the executive 
directors. When setting the policy for 
remuneration for the executive directors 
the Committee takes into account the 
overall approach to reward for employees 
in the Group, including consideration of 
salary increases for the general employee 
population (disclosed in the annual report 
each year); overall spend on annual bonus; 
Group-wide benefit offerings; and any 
other relevant factors as determined 
by the Committee.
Although the Company has not carried out 
a formal employee consultation regarding 
Board remuneration (policy or implementation), 
in accordance with prevailing commercial 
practice, it does comply with regulations and 
practices regarding employee consultation 
more broadly. The Group head of human 
resources ensures that the Committee is 
made aware of any relevant employee 
feedback regarding the Company’s 
remuneration policy. 
Further information about our engagement 
with employees across the Group is provided 
on page 36 of the annual report.
Statement of consideration 
of shareholder views
The Company welcomes dialogue with its 
shareholders and, in the event that material 
changes to the policy are proposed, will consult 
with major shareholders and representative 
bodies in advance of changes being made. 
Summary remuneration policy
The Committee remains of the view that the remuneration policy continues to be appropriate and therefore there has been no change to the  
policy from the prior year (and indeed the 2014 AGM). The key components of the remuneration packages offered to our directors are as follows:
Future policy table
Component Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity Applicable performance measure
Salary and fees
• 
To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation  
of high performing people
• 
To reflect their experience and importance  
to the business
• 
Fixed annual sum normally payable monthly and 
reviewed annually
• 
Review reflects changes in scope of role and responsibility, 
personal and Group performance increases throughout the  
rest of business
• 
Salary of newly appointed directors may be phased to take 
account of experience
• 
The maximum annual salary increase will not normally exceed the average increase which 
applies across the wider workforce
• 
The Committee is guided by the general increase for the broader employee population but may 
decide to award a lower increase or a higher increase for executive directors to recognise, for 
example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, to apply salary progression 
for a newly appointed director and/or to take account of relevant market movements
• 
n/a
Benefits
• 
To provide support and protection and the 
ability to focus on effective delivery
• 
Benefits currently include company car allowance, private  
medical insurance and life assurance. Other benefits may be  
provided where appropriate
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Annual bonuses
• 
To incentivise the delivery of stretching short 
term business targets and strategic and/or  
personal objectives
• 
To recognise performance through variable 
remuneration, allowing flexible control of the 
cost base and response to market conditions
• 
All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the 
Committee at the beginning of the year and payments 
determined after the year end, based on performance 
against targets
• 
One-third of any bonus payable from 2014 will normally 
be deferred into options/awards over ordinary shares with 
a three-year vesting period
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) may be 
payable on awards to the extent they vest
• 
120% of salary
• 
Majority (if not all) based on 
financial targets
• 
Minority based on personal/ 
strategic targets
• 
Malus and clawback provisions 
operate for deferred bonuses
Long Term Share 
Incentive plans
• 
To incentivise value creation over the long 
term and reward execution of our strategy 
• 
To align the long term interest of directors 
and shareholders
• 
To promote retention
• 
Annual grant of awards
• 
Structured as nil-cost options/conditional awards
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) 
may be payable on awards to the extent they vest
Grant policy
• 
Up to 150% of salary per annum
Maximum limit
• 
200% of salary per annum
Exceptional limit
• 
300% of salary per annum
• 
Earnings per share, financial 
targets and/or total shareholder 
return-related targets
• 
25% vests at threshold increasing 
to 100% vesting at maximum
• 
Malus and clawback provisions 
operate Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 58
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Summary remuneration policy continued
Future policy table continued
Component Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity Applicable performance measure
Pensions
• 
To help recruit and retain high 
performing executives
• 
To reward continued contribution to the 
business by enabling executive directors 
to build long term savings
• 
Participation into a money purchase pension scheme and/or  
cash equivalent
• 
Directors will receive a pension contribution appropriate to their role
• 
n/a
All Employee 
Share Plans
• 
To encourage all employees to make a long  
term investment in the Company’s shares  
in a tax efficient manner
• 
Share Incentive Plan and/or Save As You Earn Plan as per 
HMRC-approved rules
• 
Consistent with prevailing HMRC limits
• 
n/a
Share ownership 
guidelines
• 
To provide close alignment between the 
longer term interests of directors and 
shareholders in terms of the Company’s 
growth and performance
• 
Executive directors to retain no less than 50% of net of tax 
shares from vesting of share options/awards until such time  
as a shareholding equivalent in value to 100% of base salary 
has been achieved
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Non-executive 
directors
• 
To provide fees reflecting time commitments 
and responsibilities of each role, in line with 
those provided by similarly sized companies
• 
Cash fee paid on a monthly basis
• 
Fees are reviewed annually
• 
There is no prescribed maximum fee increase
• 
The Committee is guided by market rates, time commitments and responsibility levels
• 
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board Committees, though additional 
fees are paid for specific additional responsibilities such as chair of Audit Committee, 
chair of Remuneration Committee and senior independent director
• 
n/a
 Notes to summary policy table
1  A description of how the Company intends to implement the remuneration policy for 2016 is set out in the following annual report on remuneration.
2  The annual bonus is primarily focused on Group EBITDA to reflect how successful the Group has been in managing its operations.
3  The long term incentive performance measures, currently EPS and TSR targets, have been selected to reward significant long term returns to shareholders and long term financial growth. 
EPS growth is derived from the audited financial statements. Targets take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company. Only modest rewards 
are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year. 
4  The Committee operates incentive arrangements for executive directors in accordance with their respective rules and the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee, 
consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan rules. These include (but are not limited to) the following:
• 
who participates;
• 
the timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
• 
 the size of an award (up to plan/policy limits) and/or a payment;
• 
the result indicated by the performance conditions;
• 
 discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
• 
 determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes;
• 
 adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
• 
 the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
5  For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors’ remuneration policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors 
(such as the payment of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards).
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy
Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of executive directors’ 
remuneration payable in the form of variable, performance-related pay. The charts that follow illustrate the opportunity at different levels 
of performance for the remuneration policy. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 59
Summary remuneration policy continued
Future policy table continued
Component Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity Applicable performance measure
Pensions
• 
To help recruit and retain high 
performing executives
• 
To reward continued contribution to the 
business by enabling executive directors 
to build long term savings
• 
Participation into a money purchase pension scheme and/or  
cash equivalent
• 
Directors will receive a pension contribution appropriate to their role
• 
n/a
All Employee 
Share Plans
• 
To encourage all employees to make a long  
term investment in the Company’s shares  
in a tax efficient manner
• 
Share Incentive Plan and/or Save As You Earn Plan as per 
HMRC-approved rules
• 
Consistent with prevailing HMRC limits
• 
n/a
Share ownership 
guidelines
• 
To provide close alignment between the 
longer term interests of directors and 
shareholders in terms of the Company’s 
growth and performance
• 
Executive directors to retain no less than 50% of net of tax 
shares from vesting of share options/awards until such time  
as a shareholding equivalent in value to 100% of base salary 
has been achieved
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Non-executive 
directors
• 
To provide fees reflecting time commitments 
and responsibilities of each role, in line with 
those provided by similarly sized companies
• 
Cash fee paid on a monthly basis
• 
Fees are reviewed annually
• 
There is no prescribed maximum fee increase
• 
The Committee is guided by market rates, time commitments and responsibility levels
• 
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board Committees, though additional 
fees are paid for specific additional responsibilities such as chair of Audit Committee, 
chair of Remuneration Committee and senior independent director
• 
n/a
 
Recruitment of executive directors and promotions
When setting the remuneration package for 
a new executive director, the Committee will 
apply the same principles and implement the 
policy as set out in the table on pages 56 to 59. 
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate 
to the role and experience of the director 
being appointed. This may include setting 
a below-market salary with an agreement 
on future increases up to a market rate, 
in line with increased experience and/or 
responsibilities, subject to performance, 
where this is considered appropriate. Our 
policy on maximum annual bonus and LTIP 
awards would apply.
In relation to external appointments, the 
Committee may structure an appointment 
package that it considers appropriate to 
recognise awards or benefits forfeited on 
resignation from a prior position, taking into 
account timing and valuation and other 
specific matters it considers relevant. This 
may take the form of cash and/or share 
awards. The maximum payment under any 
such arrangements (which may be in addition 
to normal variable remuneration) would be 
no more than the Committee considers is 
required to provide reasonable compensation 
to the incoming director and would not go 
beyond a like-for-like compensation. If a 
director is required to relocate in order to 
take up the position, the Company may 
consider reasonable relocation, travel, 
subsistence and any other incidental payments 
as appropriate. Any such payments will be 
at the discretion of the Committee.
In the case of an employee who is promoted 
to the position of director, it is the Company’s 
policy to honour pre-existing commitments 
in accordance with their terms.
54 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
£0
£500
£1,000
£1,500
£2,500
£2,000
Maximum Target
 
Below target Below target Maximum Target
£’000s
100% 35% 28%
100% 37% 30%
30% 28%
31%
30%
35%
44%
32%
40%
£676
£1,925
£2,444
£406
£1,091
£1,367
Fixed pay
Bonus
LTIP
Chief executive ofﬁcer Chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer
The scenarios adopt the following assumptions:
• 
fixed pay consists of base salary as at 1 January 
2016, benefits and pension allowances. The value 
of benefits has been estimated;
• 
on-target performance is based on the value of 
fixed pay plus on-target incentive pay, based on 
83% of the maximum bonus and 62.5% of the 
maximum long term incentive award values;
• 
maximum performance is based on the value of fixed 
pay plus maximum incentive pay (i.e. a 120% of 
base salary annual bonus and, for 2016, a 
187.5/162.5% of salary LTIP award); and
• 
no assumptions have been made as to the share 
price growth and any dividend accrual has been 
excluded from the above. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 60
Policy on payment for loss of office
If an executive director’s employment is 
terminated, in the absence of a breach of 
service agreement by the director, the Company 
may (although it is not obliged to) terminate 
the director’s employment immediately by 
payment of an amount equal to the basic 
salary and specified benefits (including 
pension scheme contribution or equivalent 
salary supplement payment) in lieu of the 
whole or the remaining part of the notice 
period. Discretionary bonus payments will 
not form part of any payments in lieu of 
notice. An annual bonus may be payable 
with respect to the period of the financial 
year served, although it would be paid in 
cash and pro-rated for time and paid at the 
normal payout date. Payments in lieu of 
notice may be paid in monthly instalments 
over the length of the notice period with 
such instalments to be reduced or to cease 
upon the director receiving payment from 
a new position.
Any share-based entitlements granted to 
an executive director under the Company’s 
share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the LTIP is that 
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation 
of employment. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as ill health, injury or 
disability, retirement, transfer of the employing 
company outside of the Group or in other 
circumstances at the discretion of the 
Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be applied. 
For good leavers, awards will normally vest 
on the normal vesting date, subject to the 
satisfaction of the relevant performance 
conditions and reduced pro-rata to reflect 
the proportion of the performance period 
actually served. However, the Committee has 
discretion to determine that awards for good 
leavers vest at cessation and/or to disapply 
time pro-rating. In the event of death, awards 
will normally vest on the date of death subject 
to performance conditions and time pro-rating, 
although the Committee has discretion to 
determine that awards vest at the normal 
vesting date and/or to disapply time pro-rating.
The default treatment under the IPO options, 
the rules of which were drafted to replicate 
the pre-admission long term incentive plan 
(see annual report on remuneration), is that 
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation 
of employment. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as death, permanent 
disability, retirement, transfer of the employing 
company outside of the Group, employment 
being terminated within twelve months of a 
material acquisition, cessation between the 
second and third anniversary of admission 
where the chief executive officer or chief 
financial officer either receives a payment 
in lieu of notice or otherwise leaves without 
notice or in other circumstances at the 
discretion of the Committee, ‘good leaver’ status 
may be applied. For good leavers, awards 
will normally vest on the normal vesting date, 
subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance conditions. Other than where 
the chief executive officer or chief financial 
officer ceases employment between the 
second and third anniversary of admission 
in circumstances where the individual 
receives a payment in lieu of notice, IPO 
options will be reduced pro-rata to reflect 
the proportion of the vesting period served, 
although the Committee has discretion to 
disapply time pro-rating.
The default treatment for deferred bonus 
awards is that any outstanding awards vest on 
cessation of employment unless cessation is 
as a result of dismissal for gross misconduct 
or a similar ‘bad leaver’ reason.
External appointment  
of executive directors
The Board allows executive directors to accept 
appropriate outside commercial non-executive 
director appointments provided the aggregate 
commitment is compatible with their duties 
as executive directors. The executive directors 
concerned may retain fees paid for these 
services, which will be subject to approval 
by the Board. Details of such appointments 
and fees retained for 2015 are disclosed 
on page 62.
Remuneration policy report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Service agreements and letters of appointment
Each of the executive directors’ service agreements is for a rolling term and may be terminated by the Company or the director by giving 
twelve months’ notice.
The non-executive directors of the Company (including the chairman) do not have service agreements. The independent non-executive 
directors are appointed by letters of appointment and have an initial two-year term. Caleb Kramer’s services are provided to the Company 
under an agreement between the Company and Oaktree Capital Management (UK) LLP which runs for an initial period of three years. 
The initial terms of the non-executive directors’ positions are subject to their re-election by the Group’s shareholders at the AGM.
The dates of appointments of the non-executive directors in office as at 31 December 2015 are set out below:
Non-executive director Commencement date of original term
Unexpired term as at 
27 April 2016 AGM
Grenville Turner 1 September 2014 4 months
David Watson 2 September 2013 n/a
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 n/a
Richard Adam 9 June 2014 1 month
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 1 month
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 1 month
Caleb Kramer 19 March 2013 n/a
Individuals will be subject to re-election at the 2016 AGM.
The directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and will be available 
at the AGM. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 61
Annual report on remuneration
Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2016
Details of how the Committee intends to operate the remuneration policy for directors for the year ending 31 December 2016 are set out below. 
Base salary
Base salaries for the executive directors are reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of the director’s performance, experience 
and responsibilities. When determining base salaries, the Committee also has regard to economic factors, remuneration trends and the 
general level of salary increases awarded throughout the Group. Current base salaries are as follows:
1 January 
2015 
£’000
1 June 
2015 
£’000
1 January 
2016 
£’000
Alison Platt 575 575 575
Jim Clarke* 300 340 340
*  Following a review of Jim Clarke’s performance, role and increased responsibilities following a reorganisation of the Executive Committee during 2015, Jim Clarke’s salary was increased 
to £340,000 per annum, effective 1 June 2015. No increases were awarded from 1 January 2016.
Benefits in kind and pension
Executive directors will continue to receive 
benefits in kind including a company car 
allowance, life assurance, private medical 
insurance and permanent health insurance. 
Alison Platt and Jim Clarke will receive a salary 
supplement in lieu of pension entitlement 
of up to 15% of base salary. Following a review, 
Jim Clark’s pension was switched from a 
contribution to the defined contribution 
section of the Group scheme to a salary 
supplement and aligned to that provided 
to Alison Platt with effect from 1 April 2015.
Annual bonus 
For 2016, maximum bonus potential will 
continue to be 120% of salary for executive 
directors for 2016 and one-third of any 
bonus payable will be deferred into 
Company shares for a period of three years. 
The annual bonus will continue to be based 
on Group EBITDA targets. This will comprise 
70% of the award. In addition, targets 
based on customer satisfaction (15%) 
and personal/strategic objectives (15% of 
award) will also apply, albeit these targets 
will be underpinned by an EBITDA hurdle. 
The Committee has chosen not to disclose 
the performance targets in advance for 2016 
as these include items which the Committee 
considers commercially sensitive. Retrospective 
disclosure of the targets and performance 
against them will be presented in the 2016 
annual report on remuneration. 
Malus and clawback provisions will continue 
to operate in respect of deferred bonus awards. 
Long term incentives
The annual award of LTIPs to be granted in 
2016 will be assessed over the three-year 
performance period from 1 January 2016 
to 31 December 2018 and will be subject 
to the following targets:
• 
EPS (two-thirds) – 25% of this part of an 
award will vest for EPS growth of 5% per 
annum increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting 
for EPS growth of 15% per annum; and
• 
relative TSR (one-third) – the Company’s 
TSR measured against the constituents of 
the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services 
companies and investment trusts). 25% 
of this part of an award will vest for 
performance at median of the comparator 
group, increasing pro-rata to 100% 
vesting at upper quartile.
Reflecting the Committee’s desire to incentivise 
delivery of the ambitious strategy, LTIP awards 
of 187.5% of salary and 162.5% of salary 
will be granted in 2016 to the chief executive 
officer and chief financial officer respectively. 
Malus and clawback provisions will operate.
Shareholding guidelines will continue to 
operate. Executive directors will be required 
to retain no less than 50% of net of tax shares 
from vesting of share awards until such time 
as a shareholding equivalent in value to 
100% of base salary has been achieved.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive director fee levels for 2016 are as follows:
Director
Committee 
chairman role
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
Grenville Turner Chairman, Nomination 150 150
David Watson Deputy chairman and senior independent director 95 95
Cathy Turner Remuneration 55 55
Richard Adam Audit and Risk 55 55
Rupert Gavin — 45 45
Jane Lighting — 45 45
Caleb Kramer — 40 45 Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 62
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 (audited)
The remuneration of the directors for the 2015 and 2014 financial years was as follows:
Salary and fees Taxable benefits
3
Annual bonuses
4
Long term incentives
8
Pension
5
Other
6
Total
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
 2015 
£’000
 2014
£’000
Executive directors
Alison Platt
1,2
575 192 15 5 288 — — — 86 29 — 329 964 555
Grenville Turner
2
— 317 — 10 — 253 — 7,116 — 48 — — — 7,744
Jim Clarke 323 300 15 15 170 240 — 4,269 45 35 — — 553 4,859
Non-executive directors
Grenville Turner
2
150 50 — — — — — — — — — — 150 50
Caleb Kramer 40 40 — — — — — — — — — — 40 40
David Watson 95 132 — — — — — — — — — — 95 132
Cathy Turner 55 55 — — — — — — — — — — 55 55
Richard Adam
7
55 31 — — — — — — — — — — 55 31
Rupert Gavin 45 24 — — — — — — — — — — 45 24
Jane Lighting
7
45 25 — — — — — — — — — — 45 25
Sandra Turner — 20 — — — — — — — — — — — 20
1,383 1,186 30 30 458 493 — 11,385 131 112 — 329 2,002 13,535
1 Alison Platt was appointed chief executive officer from 1 September 2014.
2  Alison Platt also acts as a non-executive director for Cable & Wireless Communications plc and retains an annual fee of £65,000. Grenville Turner stepped down from his role as chief 
executive officer on 1 September 2014, taking on the role of non-executive chairman from that date. Whilst chief executive of Countrywide plc, Grenville Turner was chairman of Knightsbridge 
Student Housing Limited and Bellpenny Limited, and was a non-executive director of Zoopla Property Group Ltd and the Department of Communities and Local Government (DCLG). 
During his period as chief executive, he received fees in respect of his role with Knightsbridge Student Housing Limited amounting to £33,333, Zoopla Property Group Ltd of £10,000 
and DCLG of £10,000.
3 Benefits consist of the provision of a car allowance, life assurance and private medical and health insurance.
4  Details of the annual bonus targets and payments for 2015 are set out below. In accordance with the remuneration policy, one-third of any bonus is subject to deferral into shares, normally 
vesting after three years, subject to continued service. As such, deferred share awards equal to £96,000 and £56,667 will shortly be granted to Alison Platt and Jim Clarke respectively.
5  Alison Platt received a 15% of salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlements. As described above, Jim Clarke received a contribution to the defined contribution section of the Group 
scheme of 12% of salary to 31 March 2015 and a 15% of salary supplement thereafter.
6  As described last year, to compensate for lost bonus opportunity in respect of leaving her previous employment, and as agreed as part of her recruitment arrangements and consistent 
with the remuneration policy, Alison Platt received a payment of £329,000 following the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
7 Richard Adam and Jane Lighting were appointed on 9 June 2014; Rupert Gavin was appointed on 25 June 2014. Sandra Turner stepped down on 9 June 2014.
8  Long term incentives incorporated as comparatives in the table above were based on expected vesting of the IPO options (based on an 83% vesting level which had been determined on 
2014 EBITDA performance criteria). The actual values at vesting of the first 50% crystallising on 18 March 2015 were £4,151,000 and £2,491,000 respectively for Grenville Turner and 
Jim Clarke based on the share price at vesting, incorporating the associated cash-settled dividend equivalents. The expected value at vesting of the final 50% crystallising on 18 March 2016 
(using the average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2015 of 435 pence), incorporating the value of dividend equivalents, is £3,581,000 and £2,148,000 respectively 
for Grenville Turner and Jim Clarke. As such, the total value of the IPO options, based on the actual value of that part of the awards which vested in March 2015 and the estimated value 
of those vesting in March 2016 is £7,732,000 and £4,639,000 respectively for Grenville Turner and Jim Clarke.
9  Matching shares are also issued to the eligible executive directors under the share incentive plan (SIP), following the introduction of the employee-wide share incentive plan in 2013. 
The aggregate value of these in each year in respect of each executive director is disclosed within the SIP share awards overleaf.
2015 annual bonus award (audited)
Executive directors had the potential to receive an annual bonus of up to 120% of base salary. 
Group EBITDA targets (up to 80% of salary)
The primary driver of the award was based on Group EBITDA performance relative to targets set at the start of the financial year. In assessing 
the final award, the required Group EBITDA is adjusted up or down dependent upon the actual market size relative to the plan. The market 
size is measured based on the independent Land Registry data (as at the end of October 2015) plus full-year indicative estimates after 
considering all relevant information on the size of the market, including Bank of England mortgage approval levels, in the final two months of 
the year. Group EBITDA is also adjusted for any significant benefit and costs associated with major unplanned initiatives such as acquisitions. 
In determining the 2015 annual bonus award, the Committee considered:
• 
Group EBITDA of £113.0 million, which represents underperformance of the target Group EBITDA of £136.2 million in the plan; and
• 
a market size estimated to be 3% down on the prior year.
Whilst performance against the original plan would have triggered a bonus of 33% of the maximum under this part of the bonus (i.e. 26% of salary), 
the lower than expected market size and adjustment for acquisitions resulted in a flexing upwards of the annual bonus award to 37.5% of the 
maximum (i.e. 30% of salary).
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 63
The following table illustrates the performance measures and Group targets, their significance in terms of value and the respective outcomes:
Performance required
Measure Weighting Threshold On-target Maximum Actual Payout
Flexed Group EBITDA 66.7% £106.2m £132.7m £146.0m £113.0m 30% of salary
Strategic targets (up to 40% of salary)
The remaining third of bonus potential was dependent upon an assessment of progress against: the growth strategy; embedding performance 
measurement across the organisation; implementing a new organisation structure aligned with strategy; and enhancements to operational 
excellence, including IT architecture. After assessing performance, the Committee acknowledged progress in most areas and determined 
a bonus of 20% of salary, (50% of the maximum award). 
Total award
Performance against the flexed EBITDA targets (for up to 80% of salary) resulted in 37.5% of the maximum award under this element (30% of salary) 
while performance against the strategic targets (for up to 40% of salary) resulted in 50% of the maximum payable under this element (20% of salary). 
Therefore the total bonus payable was 41.6% of the maximum (50% of salary). In line with the deferral policy, one-third of the bonus award 
will be deferred into Company shares for a period of three years.
Vesting of scheme interests in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 (audited)
Awards granted under the LTIP in September 2013 are due to vest on 6 September 2016 based upon absolute EPS and relative TSR 
performance as follows:
Threshold target
0% vesting at 
or below
Maximum target
100% vesting at
or above
Actual 
performance Vesting %
Absolute EPS for the three years ended 31 December 2015 36p 44p 32p 0%
Relative TSR for the three years ended 18 March 2016 Median Upper quartile Below median* 0%
* Expected based on current performance levels.
Based on the above, none of the outstanding 2013 LTIP awards held by Grenville Turner and Jim Clarke are currently expected to vest.
Scheme interests awarded during the year (audited)
LTIP awards
The following LTIP awards, structured as nil-cost options, were granted to executive directors during 2015:
Executive Date of grant
Basis of 
award granted
Share price 
at date of grant 
(pence)
Number 
of shares
Face value
of award at grant*
£’000
% of face value 
that would vest 
at threshold 
performance
Vesting 
determined by 
performance over
Normal vesting 
(exercise) 
date
Alison Platt 16/03/2015 150% of 
salary
527 163,507 862 25% Three-year  
period ending  
31 December 2017
16 March 2018
(16 March 2025)
Jim Clarke 16/03/2015 130%  
of salary
527 73,934 390 25% Three-year  
period ending  
31 December 2017
16 March 2018
(16 March 2025)
* Based on the share price at grant multiplied by the number of shares awarded.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows:
• 
EPS growth (two-thirds) – 25% of this part of an award will vest for achieving a minimum of 10% compound growth per annum in EPS increasing 
pro-rata to 100% vesting for achieving 25% compound growth per annum in EPS for the three-year period ending 31 December 2017; and
• 
relative TSR (one-third) – the Company’s TSR measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services companies 
and investment trusts). 25% of this part of an award will vest for performance at median of comparator group, increasing pro-rata to 100% 
vesting at upper quartile. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 64
Outstanding share awards
Date of
grant
Interest at
1 January 
2015
Options/awards 
granted during 
the year
Options/awards 
lapsed during 
the year
Options/awards
 exercised during
 the year
Interest at 
31 December 
2015
Exercise 
price 
pence
Expected 
exercise/vested 
to expiry date 
(if appropriate)
Alison Platt
LTIP 08/09/14 246,305 — — — 246,305 — 08/09/17 (08/09/24)
LTIP 16/03/15 — 163,507 — — 163,507 — 16/03/18 (16/03/25)
Grenville Turner
IPO options 18/03/13 1,828,045 — (310,768) (758,639) 758,638 5.25 50% 18/03/15 
50% 18/03/16
Deferred bonus 22/05/15 — 14,660 — — 14,660 — 22/05/18
LTIP 06/09/13 129,545 — — — 129,545 — 06/09/16 (06/09/23)
Jim Clarke
IPO options 18/03/13 1,096,827 — (186,461) (455,183) 455,183 5.25 50% 18/03/15 
50% 18/03/16
LTIP 06/09/13 70,909 — — — 70,909 — 06/09/16 (06/09/23)
LTIP 21/03/14 58,735 — — — 58,735 — 21/03/17 (21/03/24)
Deferred bonus 22/05/15 — 13,889 — — 13,889 — 22/05/18 
LTIP 16/03/15 — 73,934 — — 73,934 — 16/03/18 (16/03/25)
The executive directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company under the SIP as at 31 December 2015 are shown in the table below. 
The shares are held under a SIP trust and will vest based on service conditions of continued employment and have a vesting date of a 
minimum holding period of three years from each rolling monthly award date.
Total SIP 
shares at 
1 January 
2015
Partnership 
shares 
purchased
Matching 
shares 
awarded
Dividend 
shares 
purchased
Total SIP 
shares at 
31 December 
2015
Jim Clarke 550 362 181 33 1,126
Alison Platt is not eligible to join the SIP scheme until she has completed 18 months’ service.
The matching shares were awarded each month in the ratio of one matching share for every two partnership shares purchased at the prevailing 
market price on the date of the award.
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) 
The interests of the directors who served on the Committee during 2015 have been subject to audit and are set out in the table below: 
Legally owned LTIP awards IPO options
31 December
2015
31 December
2014 Unvested Vested Unvested Vested
SIP matching 
share awards 
restricted
DSBP options
 (unvested)
Total
31 December
2015
Shareholding 
guideline 
(100% of salary)
2
Alison Platt 41,700 — 409,812 — — — — — 451,512 313%
Jim Clarke 1,088,596 
1
1,088,596 203,578 — 455,183 — 364 13,889 1,761,610 2,066%
Grenville Turner 171,529 
1
1,071,524 
1
129,545 — 758,638 — — 14,660 1,074,372 n/a
David Watson 16,370 
1
12,578 
1
— — — — — — 16,370 n/a
Cathy Turner 9,747 9,747 — — — — — — 9,747 n/a
Richard Adam 10,000 10,000 — — — — — — 10,000 n/a
Rupert Gavin 6,500 4,550 — — — — — — 6,500 n/a
Jane Lighting 9,500 9,500 — — — — — — 9,500 n/a
Caleb Kramer — — — — — — — — — n/a
1 Includes jointly controlled shares held by close family members.
2 Actual beneficial share ownership as a percentage of salary calculated as at, and based on, the share price of 3.99 pence on 31 December 2015.
There have been the following changes in the interests of any director between 1 January 2016 and the date of this report:
• 
purchase of SIP partnership shares by Jim Clarke (79 shares); and
• 
issue of SIP matching share awards to Jim Clarke (40 shares).
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 65
Payments to past directors and payments for loss of office (audited)
No payments have been made for loss of office. 
Performance graph and table
The graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Countrywide plc in March 2013 (IPO) compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). In the opinion of the directors, this index (excluding investment trusts) is 
the most appropriate peer group and also closely aligns with the comparator group used for the LTIP plans, which comprises the FTSE 250 
Index excluding investment trusts and financial services companies.
The table below sets out the details for the director undertaking the role of chief executive officer: 
Year
Chief executive 
officer single 
figure of total 
remuneration 
£’000
Annual bonus 
payout against 
maximum
%
Long term incentive 
vesting rates 
against maximum 
opportunity
%
2015 Alison Platt 964 42 n/a
2014 Alison Platt
1
555 n/a n/a
2014 Grenville Turner
2
7,744 67 83
2013 Grenville Turner 1,015 83 n/a
2012 Grenville Turner 914 83 n/a
2011 Grenville Turner 689 46 n/a
2010 Grenville Turner 892 79 n/a
2009 Grenville Turner 972 100 n/a
1 Alison Platt was appointed chief executive officer from 1 September 2014.
2 Grenville Turner stepped down as chief executive officer with effect from 1 September 2014.
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive officer
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the director undertaking the role of chief executive officer and the 
Company’s employees as a whole between the years 2015 and 2014:
Percentage increase in  
remuneration in 2015 compared  
with remuneration in 2014
Chief executive 
officer
Average pay  
based on all 
Countrywide 
employees
Salary and fees 0% 6.6%
All taxable benefits 0% 0.5%
Annual bonuses/variable pay n /a * (0.6)%
*  Excluding her buyout arrangement in respect of her previous employment, Alison Platt was not entitled to receive a Countrywide annual bonus for 2014 given that she joined the Group 
part-way through the year (1 September 2014).
90
18 March 2013 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013
Source: Datastream
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
Value (£)
FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts)
FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts – total return index)
Countrywide plc Countrywide plc 
(net total return index) Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 66
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends, tax and retained profits:
 
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Change
%
Employee costs 418,583 392,794 7
Dividends 32,944 43, 889 * (25)
Tax charge 5,942 11,712 (49)
Retained profits 8,407 23,588 (64)
*  Incorporating a special divided of 9.0 pence (net) per share amounting to £19,750,000. The underlying dividend level has therefore remained constant between 2014 and 2015 at 15.0 pence 
per share (including proposed dividends).
The Remuneration Committee and its composition
The Committee’s composition, responsibilities and operation comply with the principles of good governance (as set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code). The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on request to shareholders and on the Company’s website at 
www.countrywide.co.uk. The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Board and, if necessary, updated. 
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below:
Member
Remuneration Committee
member since
Cathy Turner (chairman) 31 July 2013
Richard Adam 9 June 2014
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
David Watson 2 September 2013
There have been no changes to the composition of the Committee during the year. Attendance by members at the meetings is shown on 
page 45. All members of the Committee are considered independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of the Committee reports on the Committee’s activities to the Board at the meeting immediately following the Committee meeting. 
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
Membership of Board Committees that considered remuneration (both the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee (when 
directors are appointed)) are disclosed within the corporate governance section of the annual report. Invitations to attend are also extended 
to executive management where appropriate. The Committee received advice on remuneration from New Bridge Street, part of AON plc, 
during 2015. New Bridge Street is not connected to the Group, is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to 
its Code of Conduct, and in 2015 received fees of £55,455 (2014: £30,140) in connection with its work for the Committee. 
Shareholder voting and engagement
At the Company’s AGM held on 29 April 2015, the resolutions in respect of the remuneration report and the remuneration policy were as follows:
Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld 
Resolution
Number of 
shares
% of 
shares voted
Number of 
shares
% of 
shares voted
% of issued  
share capital
Number of 
shares
Approval of remuneration report 182,351,729 95.62% 8,358,993 4.38% 87.46% 1,321,677
While the Committee was pleased with the level of shareholder support at the 2015 AGM, indicated by the level of votes in favour of the 
remuneration report resolution, and the improved degree of participation in voting, it will continue to listen to and engage with shareholders 
with regard to all aspects of the Company’s remuneration report and related policy.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 25 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 67
Directors’ report
Group directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2015
The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. The review of the 
business, future developments and outlook, as well as specific disclosures in relation to employee policies, are contained within the strategic 
report and are incorporated into the directors’ report by cross-reference.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries and financial risk management policies are given 
in notes 33 and 34 to the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in the annual report and 
accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this directors’ report, with the exception of the information set out in the table below, 
which can be found at the location specified.
Listing Rule Information Location
LR 9.8.4(4) Details of long term incentive schemes as 
required by LR 9.4.3, regarding information 
about the recruitment of a director
Pages 63 to 64 of the directors’ 
remuneration report
LR 9.8.4(11) Details of contracts for the provision 
of services to the Company by a 
controlling shareholder Page 60 of the directors’ remuneration report
LR 9.8.4(14) Details of transactions with 
controlling shareholders Page 120 (note 35 to the accounts)
General information
Countrywide plc is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The registered 
address of the Company is included in note 1 to the financial statements.
Dividends
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.0 pence (net) per share. Subject to approval at the AGM, the dividend will be 
paid on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at 29 March 2016. Together with the interim dividend of 5.0 pence (net) per share paid 
on 9 October 2015, the total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, 15.0 pence (net) per share (2014: 24.0 pence (net) per share, 
inclusive of a special dividend of 9.0 pence (net) per share paid in September 2014).
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital are shown in note 26 to the Group financial statements on page 110 of this annual report. The Company 
has one class of ordinary share which carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and has no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of 
the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 27 to the Group financial statements. Shares held by the Group Employee Benefit 
Trust abstain from voting.
Purchase of the Company’s own shares
Further to the shareholders’ resolutions passed at the Company’s AGM held on 30 April 2014, during the first quarter of 2015 the Company 
purchased 1,465,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of £14,650, and representing 0.66% of the Company’s called up ordinary share 
capital, for a consideration of £6,773,000. The reason for the purchase was to improve the return available to shareholders and enhance earnings 
per share. All shares purchased by the Company during 2014 and 2015 were then used to settle the IPO options vesting in March 2015.
At the end of the year, the directors had authority, under a shareholder resolution approved at the AGM on 29 April 2015, to make one or more 
market purchases of its ordinary shares, limited to: a maximum number of 21,506,296 ordinary shares; a minimum price (exclusive of expenses) 
of the nominal value; and a maximum price of 5% above the average market value for the preceding five business days or the higher of the 
price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out at the 
relevant time. This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM on 27 April 2016.
As a routine matter, the Company will be seeking to have this authority renewed at the 2016 AGM. Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 68
Directors’ report continued
Substantial shareholdings
At 24 February 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder Number of shares % holding
Oaktree Capital Management 65,196,855 29.68
Franklin Templeton Investment Management 24,564,302 11.18
Fidelity Worldwide Investment 23,333,447 10.62
Harris Associates LP 13,127,700 5.98
Jupiter Asset Management 7,910,494 3.60
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders
Any person who exercises or controls on their own, or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the 
votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as ‘controlling shareholders’. The Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which 
is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions. The agreement must contain 
undertakings that:
(a)  transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder (and/or any of its associates) will be conducted at arm’s length and 
on normal commercial terms;
(b)  neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed 
company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules; and
(c)  neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which 
is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, on 19 March 2013, the Company entered into such an agreement (the ‘Relationship 
Agreement’) with, among others, OCM Luxembourg Castle Holdings S.Á R.L. and OCM Luxembourg EPF III Castle Holdings S.Á R.L. (together, 
the ‘Oaktree Shareholders’) who currently have a combined total holding of approximately 29.68% of the Company’s voting rights but who, 
during the course of 2015, did by virtue of our buyback programme have a holding exceeding 30%. Under the terms of the Relationship 
Agreement, Oaktree have agreed to the independence obligations contained in the Relationship Agreement.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship Agreement on 19 March 2013 until 25 February 2016, being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report:
(i)  the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement; and 
(ii)   so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with 
by Oaktree and their associates.
As there are no controlling shareholders of the Company other than the Oaktree shareholders (if and when they have an interest exceeding 
30%), there is no need for the Relationship Agreement to require the Oaktree shareholders to procure compliance by any third parties with 
the independence provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
Appointment and removal of directors
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. The Company may, by special resolution, remove 
any director before the expiration of their period of office.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company 
will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Amendment of Articles
The Articles may be altered by special resolution, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Directors and directors’ interests
The directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of the signing of the financial statements are disclosed 
on pages 42 to 43 and their interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 64.
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors 
during the year; these provisions were in force during the financial year and remain in force at the date of this report. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 69
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
All directors at the date of approval of this annual report confirm that:
• 
so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• 
the directors have taken steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of any such information.
The auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found in the corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 45 of this 
annual report. The corporate governance statement forms part of this directors’ report and is incorporated into it by cross reference.
Going concern
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. In order to satisfy themselves 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the directors have reviewed detailed 
assumptions about future trading performance and cash flow projections within the Group’s current three-year plan. This, together with available 
market information and the directors’ knowledge and experience, has given them the confidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. 
Post-balance sheet events
Particulars of important post-balance sheet events of the Company are set out in note 36 to the Group financial statements on page 120 
of this annual report and are incorporated into this directors’ report by cross-reference.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
GHG emissions data for the year 1 January to 31 December
Tonnes of CO
2
e*
2015 2014
Scope 1
Controlled vehicle fleet 5,175 6,725
Scope 2
Electricity and heat purchased for own use 12,422 16,237
Tonnes of CO
2
e*/£m revenue 23.9 32.7
* CO
2
e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of GHG expressed in terms of the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013. We have used the operational control consolidation method. These sources fall within our 
consolidated financial statements, but exclude non-wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emission factors from the UK 
Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015 to calculate the above disclosures.
AGM notice
Accompanying this report is the notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions for the meeting, together with an explanation of them.
By order of the Board
Gareth Williams
Company secretary
25 February 2016 Corporate governance
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 70
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
annual report, the directors’ remuneration 
report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, 
and the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
• 
select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
• 
make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
• 
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the Group 
and parent company financial statements 
respectively; and
• 
prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements 
and the directors’ remuneration report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit and Risk 
Committee, the directors consider that the 
annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the directors, whose names and 
functions are listed within the corporate 
governance statement, confirm that, to the 
best of each person’s knowledge and belief:
• 
the Group financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group; and
• 
the strategic report contained in the 
annual report includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Group 
website, www.countrywide.co.uk. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibilities statement Financial 
statements
72 Independent auditor’s report
77 Consolidated income statement
78 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
79 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
80 Consolidated balance sheet
81 Consolidated cash flow 
statement 
82 Notes to the financial 
statements
 12 1 Independent auditor’s report
 123 Company balance sheet
 124 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
 128 Appendix
 13 1 Company information
 132 Forward-looking statements
 133 Awards Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 72
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Countrywide plc
Report on the Group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Countrywide plc’s Group financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
• 
the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015;
• 
the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• 
the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
• 
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• 
the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
• 
Overall Group materiality: £3.1 million (2014: £4.0 million) which represents 5% of the 
Group’s profit before tax and exceptional items.
• 
The Group operates in four operating segments as set out in the Annual Report (refer 
to pages 88 to 89). Each of the operating segments is broken down into a number of 
reporting units which are consolidated into the Group financial statements along with 
central reporting entities. 
• 
Reporting units from the four operating segments were included in the scope of our work and 
the Group audit team performed an audit of the financial information at each of these locations.
• 
In some of the operating segments we audited complete financial information of all the 
reporting units and in others we focused on the larger reporting units to give us appropriate 
coverage. We performed audit work over the complete financial information of reporting units 
which accounted for approximately 96% (2014: 97%) of the Group’s revenues and 89% 
(2014: 93%) of the Group’s profit before tax.
• 
Included in the coverage above, the central reporting entities and group functions, together 
with the parent company, were subject to a full scope audit.
The areas of focus are:
• 
Judgements and estimates in relation to professional indemnity provisions;
• 
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets;
• 
Accounting for acquisitions, particularly the identification of intangible assets relating to the 
businesses acquired; and
• 
Classification of exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management 
override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as ‘areas of focus’ in the table opposite. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an 
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of focus Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 73
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Judgements and estimates in relation 
to professional indemnity provisions 
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 105 to 106 (notes).
Professional indemnity (PI) provisions principally relate to the Surveyors 
and Lambert Smith Hampton businesses within the Business to Business 
operating segment. 
In common with other valuers, the Group is subject to significant claims in 
relation to incorrect mortgage valuation reports primarily carried out between 
2004 and 2007. The Group holds professional indemnity insurance for 
such matters, but management uses judgement to estimate the net costs 
that will be incurred by the Group. All the claims received are listed and 
analysed through the Bordereaux report and the provisions held are based 
on experience of settling past claims, discussions with the Group’s insurers 
and advice from legal counsel.
The provisions are for both claims already received and claims yet to be 
received. The second category requires significant management judgement 
given the need to estimate the incidence and amount of future claims.
We focused on this area because the determination of the size of the 
provisions held and the likely settlements arising are inherently judgemental. 
 
Claims received 
• 
We checked that the amounts in the Bordereaux report were appropriately 
reflected in the books and records, and tested the mathematical accuracy  
of the report and the input data. 
• 
With respect to the input data, we agreed a sample of claims received and 
provisions made to the advice from lawyers and correspondence with claimants. 
• 
Open large legal claims were discussed with Group Legal, and appropriate 
documentation considered to understand the legal position and the basis of 
material risk positions. For large claims, we also compared a sample of historical 
provisions to the actual amounts settled, determining that management’s 
estimation techniques were satisfactory. 
• 
Management holds a provision above that suggested in the Bordereaux report to 
reflect the latest observed trends in claims received and settled, the number of 
claims with losses, and the average loss on each claim. 
Claims yet to be received 
• 
For claims not yet received but incurred, we evaluated the model and approach 
used by the management by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying 
calculations and satisfied ourselves that the input data used reflected the latest 
observed trend of claims of losses and average loss incurred. 
From the evidence obtained, we consider the level of provisioning at the balance 
sheet date to be reasonable.
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life 
intangible assets
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 95 to 98 (notes).
We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance (£471.6 million) 
across the Group and the value of the other intangible assets, principally 
brand names (£183.2 million) which are assumed to have indefinite useful 
economic lives.
Following the reorganisation of the Group’s structure, the Cash Generating 
Units (CGUs) to which goodwill was previously allocated has been altered 
and certain goodwill balances have been reallocated between CGUs. 
We note that goodwill allocation requires some judgement. 
Management concluded that there is significant headroom between the 
recoverable value of the CGUs and their carrying value. However, in 
relation to brand names, management has impaired £6.1 million of the 
carrying value to reflect the cessation in the use of certain brand names 
following a strategy review and reorganisation of the business.
This is an area of focus for us because the assessment of the recoverable 
value of the CGUs and brand names involves judgements about the future 
results of the business and the appropriate discount rates to apply to the 
future cash flows.
 
CGUs and allocation of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets
• 
We considered whether appropriate CGUs have been identified and we agree 
with management’s conclusion that the new CGUs represent the smallest identifiable 
group of assets that generate independent cash flows and reflect the level at 
which key decisions are undertaken in managing the business.
• 
We examined the basis used to reallocate the goodwill and other indefinite life 
intangible assets to the new CGUs and determined that judgements were 
appropriate and supported.
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets
• 
We assessed management’s impairment methodology under both the existing  
and the re-organised Group structure, as required under IAS 36 ‘Impairment  
of Assets’ . We evaluated management’s cash flow forecasts, and the process  
by which they were drawn up, comparing them to the latest Board approved 
budget for consistency and testing the underlying calculations successfully. 
• 
We also challenged the directors’ key assumptions for discount rates and growth 
rates by comparing them to historical results and industry comparators. We found 
that discount rates are in line with industry comparators that we considered. 
• 
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts. 
Our tests included applying:
• 
a 5% decrease in EBITDA on current growth forecasts;
• 
WACC rate increased by 20%; and
• 
no growth during FY2016 and beyond.
• 
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either 
individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and other indefinite 
life intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a 
movement arising and concluded that management’s approach was reasonable 
and supported by the available evidence. 
• 
In addition, with respect to brand names, having reviewed the discounted cash 
flows prepared, we agree with the impairment charge recognised of £6.1 million 
relating to the brand names abandoned as part of the reorganisation of the 
Group. 
On an overall basis, we agree with management’s view that currently appropriate 
headroom exists and no further impairment is required. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 74
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Countrywide plc continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for acquisitions, particularly the identification  
of intangible assets relating to the businesses acquired
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and page 114 (notes).
During the year the Group continued to make a number of acquisitions 
with a total consideration of £76.3 million, some of which is deferred and 
contingent on the future performance of the acquired entity. As a result of 
these acquisitions, the following intangible assets were recognised:
• 
customer contracts and relationships (£15.3 million);
• 
brands (£4.4 million); 
• 
pipeline in the estate agency business (£0.5 million); and 
• 
goodwill (£53.1 million).
Accounting for business combinations can be complex, particularly in 
relation to the identification of intangible assets and, accounting for 
deferred contingent consideration. 
The accounting treatment of intangible assets, including their ongoing 
impact on the income statement, varies depending on whether they are 
seen as having finite or indefinite useful economic lives, and the estimated 
life applied to those with finite lives. 
We focused on the judgements management made in these respects, 
particularly in relation to the identification of intangible assets and any 
estimated deferred consideration where linked to the continued employment 
of the vendors and, in certain cases, contingent upon future profitability.  
 
Net assets (excluding intangibles) and consideration
• 
We obtained all material acquisition agreements and read them to ensure that 
we understood the substance of the transaction, including the consideration  
and the assets and liabilities acquired.
• 
We agreed the net assets acquired, which consisted mainly of working capital, by 
agreeing them to completion statements or other similar supporting documentation 
and confirmed that they had been treated in line with the terms of the contract.
• 
We tested cash consideration to bank statements and checked that any deferred 
consideration had been correctly recognised in line with the acquisition agreements, 
with no issues being identified. 
• 
We verified that the contingent employment-linked consideration is appropriately 
calculated based on the forecast profit levels and charged to the Income statement 
in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations.’ 
Recognition of Intangibles
• 
We challenged management on the recognition of brand names, customer 
relationships and contracts and were able to corroborate these to customer lists 
and the Group’s continued use of the related brand names post-acquisition.
• 
On a sample basis, we tested the accuracy and completeness of models used 
for calculating the separately identified intangible assets by comparing them to 
models used on previous acquisitions within the Group and our experience of 
other valuation models.
• 
We also tested the accuracy of the calculation of goodwill arising on the 
business combinations and noted no issues.
The recognition of intangible assets is judgemental, but we are satisfied that the 
assumptions and models used by management are reasonable and consistent with 
prior years. We are satisfied that the treatment of consideration is in line with IFRS 3 
and concur with the management assumption that budgeted profit targets will be 
met on those acquisitions with deferred contingent consideration. 
Classification of exceptional items
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements) and page 92 and 93 (notes).
The Group recognised net exceptional items of £13.6 million comprising 
the following:
• 
Strategy and restructuring costs (£14.3 million);
• 
Acquisition costs of £1.0 million and regulatory settlement costs 
of £0.8 million; and
• 
Zoopla deferred income (£2.5 million). 
Separately identifying and disclosing items as exceptional on the face of 
the income statement requires judgement as such presentation could be 
misleading to investors.
We focused on this judgement, the potential for management bias,  
as well as the consistency and accuracy of the amounts disclosed  
within exceptional items.
• 
We assessed the rationale behind management’s classification and the 
appropriateness of the transactions recognised as exceptional items using 
our knowledge of the business, inquiries of management, examination of 
documents supporting the strategic change and related reorganisation, 
and through consideration of expenses that are typically connected with 
restructuring activities. 
• 
We also assessed the completeness and balance of exceptional items through 
identifying other large or unusual items in underlying profit, considering potential 
disclosure where significant. 
• 
We agreed a sample of expenses to calculations and invoices, and verified 
payments made to bank statements to conclude on the consistency and 
accuracy of classification.
In light of the strategic changes and restructuring during the year, we are satisfied 
that the classification, judgements and disclosures made by management are 
appropriate and in line with the Group accounting policy on exceptional items.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole.  Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 75
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
Materiality continued
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £3.1 million (2014: £4.0 million).
How we determined it 5% of the Group’s profit before tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the 
performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark. We have excluded the effect 
of exceptional items to eliminate their disproportionate effect and provide a consistent year-on-year basis 
for our work. We do not exclude the adjusted measures of share-based payment charges, amortisation  
and employment linked contingent consideration expenses on the basis that these items recur annually. 
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.2 million 
(2014: £0.2 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors 
intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion:
• 
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• 
the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 44 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
information in the Annual Report is:
We have no exceptions  
to report.
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge  
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• 
otherwise misleading.
• 
the statement given by the directors on page 70, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
• 
the section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 51, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code,  
describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated  
by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• 
the directors’ confirmation on page 21 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to  
add or to draw attention to.
• 
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
We have nothing material to  
add or to draw attention to.
• 
the directors’ explanation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, 
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to  
add or to draw attention to. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 76
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Countrywide plc continued
Other required reporting continued
Consistency of other information continued
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting continued
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope 
than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the 
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared 
by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the 
Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination 
of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Countrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Christopher Burns (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
25 February 2016 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 77
2015 2014
   Note
Pre-exceptional 
items, 
amortisation,
contingent
consideration 
and share-based
payments
£’000
Exceptional 
items, 
amortisation,
contingent
consideration 
and share-based 
payments 
£’000
Total
£’000
Pre-exceptional 
items, 
amortisation
and share-based 
payments
£’000
Exceptional 
items, 
amortisation 
and share-based 
payments 
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 718,699 — 718,699 685,094 — 685,094
Other income 5 15,037 — 15,037 17,107 — 17,107
4 733,736 — 733,736 702,201 — 702,201
Employee benefit costs 6 (405,242) (13,341) (418,583) (378,327) (14,467) (392,794)
Depreciation and amortisation 14, 15 (20,180) (11,178) (31,358) (14,247) (10,112) (24,359)
Other operating costs 7 (215,517) — (215,517) (202,771) — (202,771)
Share of (loss)/profit from joint venture 17(b) (914) — (914) 813 — 813
Group operating profit/(loss) 
before exceptional items 91,883 (24,519) 67,364 107,669 (24,579) 83,090
Exceptional income 10 — 2,534 2,534 — 17,098 17,098
Exceptional costs 10 — (16,133) (16,133) — (15,241) (15,241)
Operating profit/(loss) 4 91,883 (38,118) 53,765 107,669 (22,722) 84,947
Finance costs 8 (6,376) — (6,376) (5,584) — (5,584)
Finance income 9 321 — 321 285 — 285
Net finance costs (6,055) — (6,055) (5,299) — (5,299)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 85,828 (38,118) 47,710 102,370 (22,722) 79,648
Taxation (charge)/credit 11 (15,168) 9,226 (5,942) (21,643) 9,931 (11,712)
Profit/(loss) for the year 70,660 (28,892) 41,768 80,727 (12,791) 67,936
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 70,243 (28,892) 41,351 80,268 (12,791) 67,477
Non-controlling interests 417 — 417 459 — 459
Profit/(loss) attributable for the year 70,660 (28,892) 41,768 80,727 (12,791) 67,936
Earnings per share attributable 
to owners of the parent
Basic earnings per share 13 18.93p 30.84p
Diluted earnings per share 13 18.82p 30.01p
The notes on pages 82 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 78
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
   Note
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Profit for the year 41,768 67,936
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising in the pension scheme 25 3,248 (2,415)
Deferred tax arising on the pension scheme 25 (650) 507
2,598 (1,908)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Foreign exchange rate loss (255) (117)
Available-for-sale financial assets:
– Gains arising during the year 17(c) 7,836 3,200
– Less reclassification adjustments for gains included in the profit and loss (237) (11,076)
7,344 (7,993)
Other comprehensive income for the year 9,942 (9,901)
Total comprehensive income for the year 51,710 58,035
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 51,293 57,576
Non-controlling interests 417 459
Total comprehensive income for the year 51,710 58,035
The notes on pages 82 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 79
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Attributable to owners of the parent
Note
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling
interests
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 2,194 211,841 120,966 185,722 520,723 517 521,240
Profit for the year — — — 67,477 67,477 459 67,936
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences — — (117) — (117) — (117)
Movement in fair value of  
available-for-sale financial assets 17(c) — — 3,200 — 3,200 — 3,200
Reclassification of gains on  
disposal of available-for-sale financial assets — — (11,076) — (11,076) — (11,076)
Actuarial loss in the pension fund 25 — — — (2,415) (2,415) — (2,415)
Deferred tax movement relating to pension 25 — — — 507 507 — 507
Total other comprehensive income — — (7,993) (1,908) (9,901) — (9,901)
Total comprehensive income — — (7,993) 65,569 57,576 459 58,035
Transactions with owners
Share-based payment transactions 27 — — — 11,367 11,367 — 11,367
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — (369) (369) — (369)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary — — — 260 260 (260) —
Purchase of treasury shares 28 — — (14,290) — (14,290) — (14,290)
Dividends paid 12 — — — (43,889) (43,889) (526) (44,415)
Transactions with owners — — (14,290) (32,631) (46,921) (786) (47,707)
Balance at 1 January 2015 2,194 211,841 98,683 218,660 531,378 190 531,568
Profit for the year — — — 41,351 41,351 417 41,768
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences — — (255) — (255) — (255)
Realisation of capital reorganisation reserve 
on liquidation of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd — — (92,820) 92,820 — — —
Movement in fair value  
of available-for-sale financial assets 17(c) — — 7,836 — 7,836 — 7,836
Reclassification of gains on disposal  
of available-for-sale financial assets — — (237) — (237) — (237)
Actuarial gain in the pension fund 25 — — — 3,248 3,248 — 3,248
Deferred tax movement relating to pension 25 — — — (650) (650) — (650)
Total other comprehensive income — — (85,476) 95,418 9,942 — 9,942
Total comprehensive income — — (85,476) 136,769 51,293 417 51,710
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 26 2 (2) — — — — —
Share-based payment transactions 27 — — — 3,226 3,226 — 3,226
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — (767) (767) — (767)
Liquidation of non-controlling interest in subsidiary — — — 50 50 (50) —
Purchase of treasury shares 28 — — (7,760) — (7,760) — (7,760)
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options 28 — — 20,035 (20,035) — — — 
Dividends paid 12 — — — (32,944) (32,944) (454) (33,398)
Transactions with owners 2 (2) 12,275 (50,470) (38,195) (504) (38,699)
Balance at 31 December 2015 2,196 211,839 25,482 304,959 544,476 103 544,579
The notes on pages 82 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 80
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015
   Note
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 14(a) 471,626 418,496
Other intangible assets 14(b) 239,457 236,996
Property, plant and equipment 15 49,974 45,523
Investment property 16 — 13,235
Investments accounted for using the equity method: 
Investments in joint venture 17(b) 2,305 3,219
Available-for-sale financial assets 17(c) 57,760 33,290
Deferred tax assets 24 10,645 16,215
Total non-current assets 831,767 766,974
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 18 123,432 98,644
Cash and cash equivalents 19 24,336 28,583
Total current assets 147,768 127,227
Total assets 979,535 894,201
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 
Share capital 26 2,196 2,194
Share premium 211,839 211,841
Other reserves 28 25,482 98,683
Retained earnings 304,959 218,660
 544,476 531,378
Non-controlling interests 17(a) 103 190
Total equity 544,579 531,568
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 4,586 86,950
Net defined benefit scheme liabilities 25 415 5,216
Provisions 23 16,899 25,457
Deferred income 22 4,967 6,961
Trade and other payables 20 4,709 4,344
Deferred tax liability 24 40,669 44,858
Total non-current liabilities 72,245 173,786
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 21 204,662 44,760
Trade and other payables 20 128,503 109,312
Deferred income 22 4,111 5,708
Provisions 23 22,336 22,035
Current tax liabilities 3,099 7,032
Total current liabilities 362,711 188,847
Total liabilities 434,956 362,633
Total equity and liabilities 979,535 894,201
The notes on pages 82 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 77 to 120 were approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
25 February 2016 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 81
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
   Note
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before taxation 47,710 79,648
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 15 14,244 9,824
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 17,114 14,535
Share-based payments 27 3,226 11,367
Impairment of intangible assets 14 6,126 —
Profit on disposal of non-current assets (1,413) (16,949)
Unrealised gains on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets (1,202) —
Amortisation of deferred income 10 (2,534) (2,534)
Loss/(income) from joint venture 17(b) 914 (813)
Finance costs 8 6,376 5,584
Finance income 9 (321) (285)
90,240 100,377
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings):
Increase in trade and other receivables (14,297) (4,119)
Decrease in trade and other payables (2,419) (10,309)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (8,349) 2,052
Net cash generated from operating activities 65,175 88,001
Interest paid (5,213) (5,004)
Income tax paid (13,687) (15,531)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 46,275 67,466
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions net of cash acquired 29 (62,875) (41,017)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (16,561) (17,355)
Purchase of intangible assets 14 (5,431) (6,084)
Purchase of non-controlling interest — (857)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3,898 294
Proceeds from disposal of business — 1,959
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 383 21,302
Capital expenditure/purchase of investment property 16 (171) (13,017)
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 17(c) (2,438) (2,186)
Dividends received 17(b) — 507
Interest received 321 285
Net cash outflow from investing activities (82,874) (56,169)
Cash flows from financing activities
Term and revolving facility loan drawn 21 80,000 45,000
Financing fees paid (1,127) (813)
Capital repayment of finance lease liabilities 21 (5,363) (4,521)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 12 (32,944) (43,889)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (454) (526)
Purchase of own shares 26 (7,760) (14,290)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 32,352 (19,039)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (4,247) (7,742)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 28,583 36,325
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 24,336 28,583
The notes on pages 82 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 82
1. General information
Countrywide plc (‘the Company’), and its 
subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’), is the 
leading integrated, full service residential 
estate agency and property services group 
in the UK, measured by both revenue and 
transaction volumes in 2015. It offers estate 
agency and lettings services, together with 
a range of complementary services, and 
has a significant presence in key areas and 
property types which are promoted through 
locally respected brands.
The Company is a public limited company, 
which is listed on the London Stock Exchange 
and incorporated and domiciled in the UK 
(registered number: 08340090). The address 
of its registered office is County House, 
Ground Floor, 100 New London Road, 
Chelmsford, Essex CM2 0RG.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied 
in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently 
applied to the years presented.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have
been prepared under the historical cost
convention, as modified by the revaluation
of available-for-sale financial assets and
financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss, and in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and
IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC)
as adopted by the European Union and
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to
companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the consolidated financial 
information in conformity with IFRS requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates 
and requires management to exercise 
judgement in the process of applying the 
Group’ s accounting policies. The areas involving 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions and estimates 
are significant to the consolidated financial 
statements, are disclosed in note 3.
(b) Going concern
These financial statements have been prepared
on a going concern basis, which assumes that
the Group will be able to meet its liabilities
when they fall due for the foreseeable future.
The Board of directors has reviewed cash
flow forecasts, which have been stress tested
with various assumptions regarding future
housing market volumes, and concluded that
it is appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on a going concern basis.
(c) New standards, amendments
and interpretations
Standards, amendments and interpretations
effective and adopted by the Group
The annual improvements to existing standards
which are mandatory for the Group for the
first time for the financial year beginning
on or after 1 January 2015 (IFRS 1, IFRS 3,
IFRS 13, IAS 40 and IFRIC 21) have had
no material impact on the Group.
New standards and 
interpretations not yet adopted
Certain new accounting standards and 
interpretations have been published that 
are not mandatory for 31 December 2015 
reporting periods and have not been early 
adopted by the Group. None of these new 
standards or interpretations are expected to 
have a material impact on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group, with the 
exception of the following:
•
Amendments to IAS 19
‘Employee benefits’;
•
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’;
•
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts
with customers’; and
•
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’.
The directors do not expect that the adoption 
of the standards listed above will have a 
material impact on the financial statements 
of the Group in future periods, except that 
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement 
and disclosures of financial instruments, 
IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue 
recognition and related disclosures and 
IFRS 16 will require virtually all lease contracts 
to be recognised on the balance sheet as well 
as significant new, enhanced disclosures. 
At this stage the Group is not able to estimate 
the impact of the new rules on the Group’s 
financial statements. The Group will make 
more detailed assessments of the impact 
over the next twelve months.
(d) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the
Group has control. The Group controls an
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has
rights to, variable returns from its involvement
with the entity and has the ability to affect
those returns through its power over the
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated
from the date on which control is transferred
to the Group. They are deconsolidated from
the date that control ceases.
During 2014, the Group consolidated the 
results and position of Albion PRS Investments 
Unit T rust (see note 16) as the Group controlled 
the Unit Trust and had the ability to affect 
returns though its power over the Unit Trust. 
Further external investment in 2015, and 
finalisation of a full and independent fund 
structure, removed the ability of the Group 
to control the investment from 15 May 2015. 
From this date, the property fund units were 
transferred to available-for-sale financial 
assets with subsequent changes in valuation 
being recorded in other comprehensive 
income. Please refer to notes 16 and 17 
for further information.
The purchase method of accounting is used 
to account for acquisitions and the cost of 
acquisition is measured as the fair value of 
assets given, equity instruments issued and 
liabilities incurred. Identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured at their 
fair value at the acquisition date. Acquisition 
costs are written off to the income statement. 
The accounting policies of subsidiaries 
acquired are changed, where necessary, 
to ensure consistency with policies operated 
by the Group. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the 
non-controlling interest’s proportionate share 
of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. If the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the 
acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree 
is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition 
date through profit or loss. 
Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred 
and fair value of non-controlling interest over 
the fair value of the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. If this 
consideration is lower than the fair value 
of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised in profit or loss. 
Transactions with non-controlling interests 
that do not result in loss of control are 
accounted for as equity transactions – that 
is, as transactions with the owners in their 
capacity as owners. The difference between 
fair value of any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value 
of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded 
in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to 
non-controlling interests are also recorded 
in equity.
Joint ventures
Under the equity method of accounting, 
interests in joint ventures are initially recognised 
at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise 
the Group’s share of the post-acquisition 
profits or losses and movements in other 
comprehensive income. When the Group’s 
share of losses in a joint venture equals or 
exceeds its interests in the joint venture, the 
Group does not recognise further losses 
except to the extent that it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the joint venture. Accounting policies of the 
joint venture are aligned where applicable. 
Notes to the financial statements Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 83
2. Accounting policies continued
(d) Basis of consolidation continued
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances, and any gains and
losses or income and expenses arising from
intra-group transactions, are eliminated
in preparing the consolidated financial
information. Gains arising from transactions
with jointly controlled entities are eliminated
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
entity. Losses are eliminated in the same
way as gains, but only to the extent that
there is no evidence of impairment.
(e) Foreign currency translation
The functional currency of the Company is
Pounds Sterling because that is the currency
of the primary economic environment in
which the Group operates. The Group’s
presentational currency is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated 
into the functional currency using the exchange 
rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting 
from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange 
rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the income statement. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate 
to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents 
are presented in the income statement within 
‘finance income or costs’. All other foreign 
exchange gains and losses are presented in 
the income statement within ‘other income’ 
or ‘other operating costs’.
Group companies 
The results and financial position of all the 
Group entities (none of which have the currency 
of a hyperinflationary economy) that have 
a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into 
the presentation currency as follows:
•
assets and liabilities for each balance sheet
presented are translated at the closing rate
at the date of that balance sheet;
•
income and expenses for each income
statement presented are translated at
average exchange rates (unless this average
is not a reasonable approximation of the
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing
on the transaction dates, in which case
income and expenses are translated at the
rate on the dates of the transactions); and
•
all resulting exchange differences are
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated 
as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. Exchange 
differences arising are recognised in equity.
The following exchange rates were applied 
for £1 Sterling at 31 December: 
2015 2014
Hong Kong Dollars 11.49 12.10
Euros 1.36 1.28
Barbadian Dollars — 3.12
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Investment property, which is property held
to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is
initially measured at cost, including related
transaction costs, and is then stated at fair
value. Changes in the fair value of investment
property are included in profits for the year
to which they relate. The valuation methods
applied are detailed in note 16.
Owned assets 
Items of property, plant and equipment are 
stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Cost 
includes the original purchase price of the 
asset and the costs attributable to bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use. When parts of an item of property, plant 
and equipment have different useful lives, those 
components are accounted for as separate 
items of property, plant and equipment. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the Group and the cost 
of the item can be measured reliably.
Gains and losses on disposals are 
determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised 
in the income statement.
Leased assets 
Leases under which the Group assumes 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of an asset are classified as finance 
leases. Property, plant and equipment acquired 
under finance leases is recorded at fair value 
or, if lower, the present value of minimum 
lease payments at inception of the lease, 
less accumulated depreciation and any 
impairment losses.
Each lease payment is allocated between the 
liability and finance charges. The corresponding 
rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included within borrowings. The interest 
element of the finance cost is charged to 
the income statement over the lease period 
so as to produce a constant periodic rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability for each period. The property, plant 
and equipment under finance leases is 
depreciated over the shorter of the useful 
life of the asset and lease term.
Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a 
straight line basis over the estimated useful 
lives of each part of an item of property, plant 
and equipment. The property, plant and 
equipment acquired under finance leases 
is depreciated over the shorter of the useful 
life of the asset and the lease term. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. The estimated useful 
lives are as follows: 
•
Freehold buildings – 50 years
•
Leasehold improvements – over the
period of the lease
•
Furniture and equipment – three to five years
•
Motor vehicles – three to five years
The residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, 
at each balance sheet date.
(g) Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions
of subsidiaries and joint ventures. Goodwill
represents the excess of the cost of an
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s
share of the net identifiable assets of the
acquiree at the date of acquisition and the
value of the non-controlling interest in the
acquiree. Acquisition costs are written off
to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to 
cash generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate potential impairment. The allocation 
is made to those cash generating units or 
groups of units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose. The units or groups of units 
are identified at the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes.
In respect of joint ventures, the carrying amount 
of goodwill is included in the carrying amount 
of the investment in the joint venture. 
Excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net 
fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost 
arising on an acquisition is recognised in 
the income statement. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 84
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting policies continued
(g) Intangible assets continued
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are
acquired by the Group, principally acquired
brands, customer contracts and relationships,
computer software, pipeline and other
intangibles, are stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation, where charged, and impairment
losses. Brands are considered to have
indefinite lives.
Acquired computer software is capitalised on 
the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and 
bring to use the specific software. Internal 
costs that are incurred during the development 
of significant and separately identifiable 
computer software for use in the business 
are capitalised where the software is integral 
to the generation of future economic benefits. 
Internal costs that are capitalised are limited 
to incremental costs specific to the project. 
Other development expenditures that do 
not meet the criteria for capitalisation are 
recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Development costs previously recognised 
as an expense are not recognised as an 
asset in a subsequent period.
Amortisation 
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on a 
straight line basis over the estimated useful 
lives of intangible assets unless such lives 
are indefinite. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
•
Computer software – one to five years
•
Brand names – indefinite life
Assets are tested annually for impairment 
or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate potential impairment. 
•
Customer contacts and relationships –
five to ten years
•
Pipeline (agreed but un-exchanged house
sales at date of acquisition) – three months
•
Other intangibles – 25 years
(h) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s
non-current assets are reviewed for impairment
annually or whenever events and changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. If any such
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable
amount is estimated.
In respect of goodwill, intangible assets that 
have an indefinite useful life and intangible 
assets that are not yet available for use, the 
recoverable amount is estimated at each 
balance sheet date. The recoverable amount 
is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use.
Impairment losses represent the amount 
by which the carrying value exceeds the 
recoverable amount; they are recognised in 
profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised 
in respect of cash generating units are allocated 
first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit 
and then to reduce the carrying amount of the 
other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is 
not reversed. In respect of other assets, an 
impairment loss is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the 
extent that the asset’s carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation 
or amortisation, if no impairment loss had 
been recognised. 
(i) Financial assets
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets as
loans and receivables and available-for-sale
financial assets. The classification depends
on the purpose for which the financial assets
were acquired. Management determines
the classification of its financial assets at
initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative 
financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that arise principally through the 
provision of services to customers. They 
are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. They are included 
in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than twelve months after the end of 
the reporting period. Loans and receivables 
comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents 
and trade and other receivables. 
Available-for-sale
Available-for-sale financial assets are 
non-derivative financial assets that are either 
designated in this category or not classified 
in any of the other categories. They are 
included in non-current assets unless the 
investment matures or management intends 
to dispose of it within twelve months of the 
end of the reporting period.
Available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets are 
non-derivatives valued on the following basis 
as detailed in note 17.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
value are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in the AFS revaluation 
reserve with the exception of impairment 
losses which are recognised directly in profit 
and loss. Where the investment is disposed 
of or is determined to be impaired, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
in the AFS revaluation reserve is reclassified 
to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are 
recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s 
right to receive the dividends is established.
Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets 
are recognised on the trade date: the date 
on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised 
when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the investments have expired or have been 
transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Loans and receivables and available-for-sale 
financial assets are initially recognised at fair 
value. Available-for-sale financial assets are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans 
and receivables are subsequently carried 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and 
non-monetary securities classified as 
available-for-sale are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. 
When securities classified as available-for-
sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated 
fair value adjustments recognised in equity 
are included in the income statement as 
‘gains and losses from investment securities’. 
Dividends on available-for-sale equity 
instruments are recognised in the income 
statement as part of other income when 
the Group’s right to receive payments 
is established. 
Impairment of financial assets 
Impairment provisions are recognised when 
there is objective evidence (such as significant 
financial difficulties on the part of the 
counterparty or default or significant delay 
in payment) that the Group will be unable 
to collect all of the amounts due under the 
terms receivable, the amount of such a 
provision being the difference between the 
net carrying amount and the present value 
of the future expected cash flows associated 
with the impaired receivable. 
For trade receivables, which are reported net 
of provisions, such provisions are recorded 
in a separate provision account with the loss 
being recognised within other operating costs 
in the income statement. On confirmation that 
the trade receivable will not be collectable, 
the gross carrying value of the asset is 
written off against the associated provision. 
In the case of assets classified as available-
for-sale, impairment losses are recognised in 
the consolidated income statement and arise 
from objective evidence that these assets 
have declined in value such as a significant 
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
security below its cost. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 85
2. Accounting policies continued
(j) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised
initially at fair value and subsequently measured
at amortised cost less an impairment provision.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables
is established when there is objective evidence
that the Group will not be able to collect all
amounts due according to the original terms
of the receivables. Significant trade receivables
are reviewed for impairment if they are past
due. Trade receivables past due beyond 90
days for individual customers or 180 days
for commercial contracts that are not assessed
to be impaired individually are, in addition,
assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash
balances and call deposits with an original
maturity of three months or less. Bank
overdrafts that are repayable on demand
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash
management are included as a component
of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose
of the statement of cash flows and are
presented in current liabilities.
(l) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised
initially at fair value and subsequently
measured at amortised cost.
(m) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair
value, net of transaction costs incurred. Such
interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method, which ensures that any
interest expense over the period to repayment
is at a constant rate on the balance of the
liability carried in the balance sheet. Interest
expense in this context includes initial
transaction costs and premiums payable on
redemption, as well as any interest payable
while the liability is outstanding.
(n) Options to acquire
non-controlling interests
Options to acquire non-controlling interests
in the future are initially accounted for at fair
value with a corresponding charge directly
to equity. Such options are subsequently
measured at fair value, using the effective
interest rate method, in order to accrete
the liability up to the amount payable under
the option at the date at which it becomes
exercisable. The charge arising is recorded
as a finance cost and the liability is shown
in other financial liabilities. The risks and
rewards of ownership of the non-controlling
interests remain with the sellers and therefore
the non-controlling interest is recognised by
the Group. The put options are contractual
puts at the discretion of the sellers.
(o) Pensions
The Group operates various post-employment
schemes, including both defined benefit and
defined contribution pension plans.
Defined contribution plans
The Group pays fixed contributions to 
separately administered pension insurance 
plans. The Group has no further obligations 
once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are recognised as an employee 
benefit expense when they are due. 
Defined benefit plans 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet 
in respect of defined benefit pension plans 
is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period 
less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate 
bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid and that 
have terms to maturity approximating to the 
terms of the related pension obligation. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive 
income in the period in which they arise. 
Past service costs are recognised 
immediately in income.
(p) Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled
share-based schemes under which the
Group receives services from employees as
consideration for equity instruments (options)
of the Group. The fair value of the employee
services received in exchange for the grant
of the options is recognised as an expense.
Where the share awards have non-market
related performance criteria the Group has
used the Binomial Lattice and Black Scholes
option valuation models to establish the
relevant fair values. Where the share awards
have TSR market-related performance criteria
the Group has used the Monte Carlo simulation
valuation model to establish the relevant fair
values (see note 27). The resulting values are
amortised through the income statement
over the vesting period of the options and
other grants.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group 
revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market conditions and recognises the 
impact of the revision to original estimates, 
if any, in the income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity. 
The social security contributions payable in 
connection with the grant of the share options 
are considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a 
cash-settled transaction.
(q) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance
sheet when the Group has a present legal
or constructive obligation as a result of a
past event, and it is probable that an outflow
of economic benefits will be required to settle
the obligation. Provisions are determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows
at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and,
when appropriate, the risks specific to the
liability. The increase in the provision due to
passage of time is recognised in finance costs.
(r) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to
the issue of new shares are shown in share
premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases
the Company’s equity share capital (treasury
shares), the consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental costs, is
deducted from equity attributable to the
Company’s equity holders until the shares
are cancelled or reissued.
(s) Revenue
Services rendered
Revenue comprises mainly commission and
fees receivable. Commission earned on sales
of residential and commercial property is
accounted for on the exchange of contracts for
such sales. Survey, valuation and conveyancing
fees are accounted for on completion of the
service being provided. Commission earned
on sales of insurance policies, mortgages
and related products is accounted for when
the policies go on risk or the mortgage is
exchanged. The Group offers the following
residential lettings services to customers:
Tenant Introduction, Tenant Renewal, Standard
Lettings (often referred to as Rent Collection),
or a Full Property Management service, plus
a Leasehold Property Management service.
Commissions and fees earned for Tenant
Introduction (or Tenant Renewal) in respect
of securing (or extending) the letting are
recognised in full at the point of delivery
of the service, which is considered to be
when the underlying tenancy agreement
commences. A revenue clawback provision,
based on historical experience, is recognised
for those contracts containing a break clause
and which may require a refund if broken
early. Fees for standard lettings and property
management services, including leasehold
property management services, are recognised
on a straight line basis over the life of the
agreement. Revenue generated by Surveying
Services from panel management contracts
is reported net of any fees paid on behalf of
panel valuers, reflecting the fact that the Group
does not act as the principal in these contracts. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 86
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting policies continued
(s) Revenue continued
Services rendered continued
Revenue in respect of consultancy services
performed is recognised as activity progresses
to reflect the Group’s partial performance of
its contractual obligations. Activity performance
in excess of invoices raised is included within
‘amounts due from customers for contract
work’. Where amounts have been invoiced
in excess of work performed, the excess is
included within ‘amounts due to customers
for contract work’ . If the right to consideration
is conditional or contingent on a specified
future event or outcome, the outcome of
which is outside the control of the Group,
revenue is not recognised until that critical
event occurs.
Under certain service contracts, the Group 
manages client expenditure and is obliged to 
purchase goods and services from suppliers 
and recharge them on to the customer at 
cost. The amounts charged by suppliers and 
recharged to clients are excluded from 
revenue and administrative expenses. 
Receivables, payables and cash relating to 
these transactions are included in the 
balance sheet.
Deferred income
Where the Group receives an amount upfront 
in respect of future income streams, the value 
of the receipt is amortised over the period of 
the contract as the services are delivered 
and the unexpired element is disclosed in 
liabilities as deferred income.
(t) Other income
Other income is recognised when its receipt
is assured and the Group has no further
obligations to any other party in respect
of that income. Rental income from sub-let
properties is recognised in profit or loss on
a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as
an integral part of the total rental income.
Dividend income is recognised when the
right to receive payment is established.
(u) Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are
recognised in profit or loss on a straight line
basis over the term of the lease. Lease
incentives received are recognised in profit
or loss as an integral part of the total
lease expense.
(v) Net finance costs
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable
on borrowings (including finance lease
commitments), net interest costs on the
pension scheme liabilities, the unwinding
of the discount rates in respect of financial
liabilities and provisions, premiums payable
on settlement or redemption and direct issue
costs. Interest costs accrue using the effective
interest method. Fees paid on the establishment
of loan facilities are recognised as transaction
costs of the loan and amortised over the
period to which the facility relates.
Finance income
Finance income comprises interest receivable 
on funds invested. Interest income is recognised 
in profit or loss as it accrues using the effective 
interest method.
(w) Adjusting items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation and
disclosure’ certain items are presented
separately in the income statement as
exceptional where, in the judgement of the
directors, they need to be disclosed separately
by virtue of their nature, size or incidence
in order to obtain a clear and consistent
presentation of the Group’s underlying
business performance. Examples of material
and non-recurring items which may give rise
to disclosure as exceptional items include
strategic costs of restructuring existing
businesses, integration of newly acquired
businesses, asset impairments and costs
associated with acquiring new businesses.
The columnar presentation of our income 
statement separates exceptional items as well 
as adjusting items, specifically amortisation 
of intangibles arising on business acquisitions, 
contingent consideration and share-based 
payments, to illustrate consistently the Group’s 
underlying business performance.
(x) Income tax
Income tax comprises current and deferred
tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss
except to the extent that it relates to items
recognised in other comprehensive income
or directly in equity, in which case it is
recognised in other comprehensive income
or directly in equity respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on 
the taxable income for the year, using tax 
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for 
taxation purposes. 
The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; 
the initial recognition of other assets or liabilities 
that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; 
and differences relating to investments in 
subsidiaries to the extent that they are unlikely 
to reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount 
of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement 
of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when there is a legally enforceable right 
to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income 
taxes assets and liabilities relate to income 
taxes levied by the same taxation authority 
on either the taxable entity or different taxable 
entities where there is an intention to settle 
the balances on a net basis.
Deferred income tax is provided on 
temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except for 
deferred income tax liability where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference 
is controlled by the Group and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
Additional income taxes that arise from 
the distribution of dividends are recognised 
at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend. 
(y) Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner
consistent with the internal reporting to the
Executive Committee which has been identified
as the chief operating decision maker.
(z) Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s
shareholders is recognised as a liability in
the Group’s financial statements in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the
Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends
are recognised when paid. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 87
3. Critical accounting
judgements and estimates
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements under IFRS requires the 
directors to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities. Estimates and judgements 
are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors 
including expectations of future events that 
are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates, given the uncertainty 
surrounding the assumptions and conditions 
upon which the estimates are based. 
The directors consider that the following 
estimates and judgements are likely to have 
the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements. 
Professional indemnity provisions
When evaluating the impact of potential 
liabilities arising from claims against the Group, 
the Group takes legal and professional advice 
to assist it in arriving at its estimation of the 
liability taking into account the probability of 
the success of any claims and also the likely 
development of claims based on recent trends. 
The Group has made provision for claims 
received under its professional indemnity 
insurance arrangements. The provision 
can be broken down to three categories:
•
Reserves for known claims: These losses
are recommended by our professional claims
handlers and approved panel law firms
who take into account all the information
available on the claims and recorded on
our insurance bordereaux. Where there is
insufficient information on which to assess
the potential losses, initial reserves may be
set at an initial level to cover investigative
costs or nil. Further provisions are also made
for specific large claims which may be subject
to litigation and the directors assess the
level of these provisions based on legal
advice and the likelihood of success.
•
Provision for the losses on known claims
to increase: It can take one to two years
for claims to develop after they are initially
notified to the Group. For this reason,
the Group creates a provision based
on historical loss rates for closed claims
and average losses for closed claims.
•
Provision for incurred but not reported
(IBNR): The Group also provides for future
liabilities arising from claims IBNR for
mortgage valuation reports and home buyer
reports performed by Surveying Services.
This provision is estimated on a future
projection of historical data for all claims
received based on the number of surveys
undertaken to date. This projection takes 
into account the historic claim rate, the 
claim liability rate and the average loss per 
claim. In view of the significant events in 
the financial markets and the UK property 
market in recent years, the directors have 
identified a separate sub-population of 
claims received which is tracked separately 
from the normal level of claims. This 
sub-population has been defined as claims 
received since 2009 for surveys carried 
out between 2004 and 2008. 
The estimate of these provisions by their 
nature is judgemental. The three key inputs, 
claim rate, claim liability rate and average 
loss, are very sensitive to any change in trends. 
Claim rate – the number of claims received 
compared to the number of surveys performed.
During 2015 the number of claims received 
continued to decline and were lower than 
expected and the claim rate declined for the 
first time. Nevertheless, 84% of the claims 
received were for surveys over six years old. 
While there is very little experience relating 
to old claims on which to base any future model 
our experience in the second half of 2015 
was favourable and we do not foresee any 
reason to increase our rates. There is a 
possible risk that a significant rise in mortgage 
interest rates could lead to an increase in 
repossessions and potential losses being 
incurred by the lenders. However, since there 
are no macro-economic indicators that this 
is a reasonable likelihood in the short term, 
the directors do not consider it appropriate 
to provide for additional claims due to 
macro-economic changes. It should be noted 
that a 5% increase in the claim rate (which 
is applied to all surveys performed between 
2004 and 2008) could lead to a £3 million 
increase in the provision for future claims.
Claim liability rate – the number of claims 
closed with a loss compared to the number 
of closed claims.
We achieved a significant number of successes 
closing many cases in 2015, several without 
loss. The liability rate increased during the 
year as those claims remaining in the system 
are more likely to suffer a loss. However 
since the volume of claims is much smaller, 
the impact of this increase was not material.
The liability rate is sensitive to changes in 
experience and therefore we have used the 
average liability rate for claims closed over 
two years as the most appropriate claim liability 
rate to estimate the provision for those claims 
already received. As the number of open claims 
at the end of the year and unreported claims 
anticipated is much lower than in previous 
years, a 10% increase in the average liability 
rate would impact the provision by £0.5 million.
Average loss – the average of total incurred 
losses for closed claims.
The average loss in respect of all exceptional 
claims received has increased by 6%; however 
this has had a small impact on the provision 
because a proportion of these losses has been 
borne by insurers. However this is the loss 
used to estimate the value of unreported claims. 
Our experience in respect of the average 
loss arising from those claims closed over 
the past two years reflects a decline of 9%. 
This is the value used to estimate the further 
provision required for claims already received. 
Overall applying a further 10% increase in the 
average loss would increase the total provision 
required by £0.6 million, lower than in previous 
years owing to the reduced number of claims.
Accounting for acquisitions
The Group accounts for all business 
combinations under the purchase method. 
Under the purchase method, the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed are measured at their fair 
value at the acquisition date. Judgements 
and estimates are made in respect of the 
measurement of the fair values of assets 
and liabilities acquired and consideration 
transferred. Where necessary, the Group 
engages external valuation experts to 
advise on fair value estimates, or otherwise 
performs estimates internally. 
Impairment of goodwill and 
indefinite lived intangible assets
Determining whether goodwill and indefinite 
lived intangible assets are impaired requires 
an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which the assets have 
been allocated. Calculating the cash flows 
requires the use of judgements and estimates 
that have been included in our strategic 
plans and long range forecasts. In addition, 
judgement is required to estimate the 
appropriate interest rate to be used to 
discount the future cash flows. The data 
necessary for the execution of the impairment 
tests are based on management estimates 
of future cash flows, which require estimating 
revenue growth rates and profit margins. 
Further details of impairment reviews are 
set out in note 14. 
Exceptional items
Certain items are presented separately in the 
income statement as exceptional where, in 
the judgement of the directors, they need 
to be disclosed separately by virtue of their 
nature, size or incidence in order to obtain 
a clear and consistent presentation of the 
Group’s underlying business performance. 
Further details of material, non-recurring 
items the directors have disclosed as 
exceptional items, including the strategic 
costs of restructuring the business, are 
provided in note 10. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 88
Notes to the financial statements continued
4. Segmental reporting
Management has determined the operating 
segments based on the operating reports 
reviewed by the Executive Committee (replacing 
the Governance and Performance Committee) 
that are used to assess both performance 
and strategic decisions. Management has 
identified that the Executive Committee 
is the chief operating decision maker 
in accordance with the requirements 
of IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’.
As part of the Group’s Building our Future 
strategy, the Group’s businesses have been 
reorganised around customer groups and 
geography and the Executive Committee 
considers the business to be split into four 
main types of business generating revenue: 
Retail, London, Financial Services and Business 
to Business (B2B), and ‘all other segments’ 
comprising central head office functions. 
There are therefore differences from the 
last annual financial statements in the basis 
of segmentation and the related basis of 
measurement of segment profit or loss. Full 
details of the restructuring of the reportable 
business segments undertaken in the second 
half of 2015, and the resultant impact on 
income and EBITDA (including comparative 
data), were released in January 2016 
and are available on our website at  
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
results-and-presentations/ as ‘Summary of 
segment changes’.
•
The branch network now combines estate
agency and lettings operations, enabling
management to focus on delivering
excellent service to our retail customers.
The network has been segregated
between London and the regions (Retail).
•
The London business unit (BU) led by
Graham Bell comprises branches in and
around London and the entire Hamptons
International network of branches.
•
The Retail BU led by Samantha Tyrer
comprises all other branches across
the United Kingdom.
•
The Financial Services BU led by Peter
Curran remains unchanged except to
reflect enhanced conveyancing revenue
from customers introduced by the
consultant network.
•
The Business to Business (B2B) BU led
by Paul Creffield brings together all our
lines of business which are delivered to
corporate clients. These include: Surveying
Services which now includes Hamptons
Valuations; Conveyancing Services; Estate
and Asset Management taken from the
Lettings and Estate Agency divisions;
Countrywide Residential Development
Solutions business (CWRDS – comprising
the former Countrywide Land & New Homes
and Hamptons Residential Development
& Investment businesses) from Estate Agency
and Hamptons; Property Auctions from
Estate Agency; and Lambert Smith Hampton.
Conveyancing, Countrywide Residential
Development Solutions, Asset Management
and Property Auctions all use the branch
network to deliver products and services
on behalf of our clients, therefore revenue
is paid across to the other BUs.
The segmental analysis opposite therefore 
includes a restatement of the 2014 results 
under the revised reporting structure. 
The Retail network combines estate agency 
and lettings operations. Estate agency 
generates commission earned on sales 
of residential and commercial property 
and Lettings earns fees from the letting 
and management of residential properties 
and fees for the management of leasehold 
properties. The London division revenue is 
earned from both estate agency commissions 
and lettings and management fees. The 
Financial Services division receives commission 
from the sale of insurance policies, mortgages 
and related products under contracts with 
financial service providers. Business to 
Business services comprise all lines of 
business which are delivered to corporate 
clients, including surveying services, 
conveyancing services and revenue from 
Lambert Smith Hampton. Surveying services 
generates surveying and valuation fees 
which are received primarily under contracts 
with financial institutions with some survey 
fees being earned from home buyers. 
Conveyancing services generates revenue 
from conveyancing work undertaken from 
customers buying or selling houses through 
our network. Lambert Smith Hampton’s 
revenue is earned from commercial property 
consultancy and advisory services, property 
management and valuation services. Other 
income generated by head office functions, 
relates primarily to sub-let rental income or 
other sundry fees.
The Executive Committee assesses the 
performance of the operating segments 
based on a measure of adjusted EBITDA. 
This measurement basis excludes the effects 
of exceptional items, share-based payment 
charges and related National Insurance 
contributions, contingent consideration and 
income from joint ventures. Finance income 
and costs are not allocated to the segments, 
as this type of activity is driven by the central 
treasury activities as part of managing the 
cash position of the Group.
The revenue from external parties reported 
to the Executive Committee is measured 
in a manner consistent with that in the 
income statement.
Revenue and other income from external 
customers arising from activities in the UK 
was £732,099,000 (2014: £701,710,000) 
and that arising from activities overseas was 
£1,637,000 (2014: £491,000).
The assets and liabilities for each 
operating segment represent those assets 
and liabilities arising directly from the 
operating activities of each division. Pension 
assets and liabilities and liabilities arising 
from the term loan and revolving credit 
facility are not allocated to operating 
segments, but allocated in full to ‘all other 
segments’ within the segmental analysis. 
Non-current assets attributable to the UK 
of £830,828,000 (2014: £766,956,000) 
are included in the total assets in the tables 
on the following pages. Non-current assets 
of £939,000 (2014: £18,000) are attributable 
to the overseas operations. The equity 
investment in joint venture is disclosed within 
‘all other segments’ and is £2,305,000 
(2014: £3,219,000).
The available-for-sale financial assets 
are disclosed within ‘all other segments’ 
£52,072,000 (2014: £30,957,000) and 
Retail £5,688,000 (2014: £2,333,000). Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 89
4. Segmental reporting continued
2015
Retail 
£’000
London 
£’000
Financial
Services
£’000 
B2B
£’000 
All other
segments
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 231,989 170,742 75,796 239,805 367 718,699
Other income 6,611 3,814 1,186 2,535 891 15,037
Total income 238,600 174,556 76,982 242,340 1,258 733,736
Inter-segment revenue 15,851 3,426 4,012 (23,289) — —
Total income from external customers 254,451 177,982 80,994 219,051 1,258 733,736
EBITDA before adjusting items 43,343 34,162 20,709 32,302 (17,539) 112,977
Contingent consideration* — (1,096) — (7,730) (121) (8,947)
Share-based payments (464) (123) (64) (250) (3,493) (4,394)
Depreciation and amortisation (13,252) (4,284) (6,009) (6,477) (1,336) (31,358)
Share of loss from joint venture — — — — (914) (914)
Exceptional income — — — — 2,534 2,534
Exceptional costs (844) (6,768) (393) (1,079) (7,049) (16,133)
Segment operating profit/(loss) 28,783 21,891 14,243 16,766 (27,918) 53,765
Finance income 321
Finance costs (6,376)
Profit before tax 47,710
Total assets 335,495 198,067 110,621 249,566 85,786 979,535
Total liabilities 407,453 151,581 225,612 273,232 (622,922) 434,956
Additions in the year
Goodwill 30,789 16,676 — 5,665 — 53,130
Intangible assets 7,821 5,619 349 11,170 742 25,701
Property, plant and equipment 9,551 4,741 1,875 1,373 3,877 21,417
2014
Retail 
£’000
London 
£’000
Financial
Services
£’000 
B2B
£’000 
All other
segments
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 243,413 166,590 71,476 203,615 — 685,094
Other income 5,845 3,164 1,269 1,668 5,161 17,107
Total income 249,258 169,754 72,745 205,283 5,161 702,201
Inter-segment revenue 16,393 2,881 3,694 (22,968) — —
Total income from external customers 265,651 172,635 76,439 182,315 5,161 702,201
EBITDA before adjusting items 58,621 37,107 18,586 21,363 (14,574) 121,103
Share-based payments (2,521) (344) (111) (512) (10,979) (14,467)
Depreciation and amortisation (9,106) (3,544) (5,444) (4,415) (1,850) (24,359)
Share of profit from joint venture — — — — 813 813
Exceptional income — — — — 17,098 17,098
Exceptional costs — (1,047) — (15,145) 951 (15,241)
Segment operating profit/(loss) 46,994 32,172 13,031 1,291 (8,541) 84,947
Finance income 285
Finance costs (5,584)
Profit before tax 79,648
Total assets 296,467 140,531 103,231 260,426 93,546 894,201
Total liabilities 55,405 21,960 (4,215) 11,493 277,990 362,633
Additions in the year
Goodwill 17,647 20,168 311 600 — 38,726
Intangible assets 9,025 3,231 343 3,176 1,418 17,193
Property, plant and equipment 7,422 5,912 1,588 1,728 7,650 20,300
*  As a result of an increasing number of acquisitions during 2015 that, for commercial reasons, comprise a significant element of contingent consideration which is deemed remuneration 
under IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’, we have decided to report these costs separately from underlying profits because the short term impact on the underlying businesses would be 
material and distort underlying business performance (see note 6). Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 90
Notes to the financial statements continued
5. Other income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Rent receivable 999 1,569
Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 325 1,395
Other operating income 13,713 14,143
15,037 17,107
Other operating income comprises a number of items, but principally relates to income arising from client accounting taxation services 
and commission earned on energy performance certification.
6. Employees and directors
(a) Employee costs for the Group during the year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 360,374 336,799
Contingent consideration deemed remuneration (note 29) 8,947 —
Share options granted to directors and employees (note 27) 3,372 12,860
Defined contribution pension cost (note 25) 6,687 5,637
Defined benefit scheme costs 193 105
Social security costs 39,010 37,393
418,583 392,794
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed: 
By business segment
2015
Number 
2014
Number 
Retail 4,734 4,791
London 2,014 1,886
Financial Services 968 998
B2B 2,613 2,451
Head office 219 203
10,548 10,329
(b) Key management compensation
The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Executive Committee including the executive directors.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 3,490 4,032
Short term non-monetary benefits 46 52
Share-based payments 1,605 9,427
Post-employment benefits 114 134
Termination costs 903 —
6,158 13,645 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 91
7. Other operating costs
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Rent 27,894 27,320
Advertising and marketing expenditure 19,932 19,698
Vehicles, plant and equipment hire 17,680 17,536
Other motoring costs 14,205 13,293
Repairs and maintenance 7,839 7,081
Trade receivables impairment 607 1,181
Profit on disposal of business — (2,133)
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (237) —
Profit on revaluation of investment property (400) (218)
Other 127,997 119,013
Total operating costs 215,517 202,771
Services provided by the Company’s auditor and network firms
During the year the Company (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor at costs 
as detailed below: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 135 135
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 471 421
– audit-related assurance services 44 44
– non-audit services 11 20
– tax advisory services 9 60
– services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed
to be entered into on behalf of the Company — 97
670 777
8. Finance costs
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest costs: 
Interest payable on borrowings 2 141
Interest payable on revolving credit facility (and previously term loan) 4,573 3,424
Interest arising from finance leases 665 581
Other interest paid 114 42
Cash payable interest 5,354 4,188
Amortisation of loan facility fee 868 1,160
Net interest costs arising on the pension scheme (note 25) 154 158
Other finance costs — 78
Non-cash payable interest 1,022 1,396
Finance costs 6,376 5,584
9. Finance income
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest income 321 285 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 92
Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Exceptional items
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before taxation:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Exceptional income
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets — 14,564
Deferred income amortisation arising from fair valuation of Zoopla shares crystallised upon the merger in May 2012 2,534 2,534
2,534 17,098
Exceptional costs
Strategic and restructuring costs
Redundancy costs (3,289) —
Recruitment costs (478) —
Consultancy costs (3,288) —
Profit on sale of leasehold property 836 —
Property closure costs (1,211) —
Impairment of brands (6,126) —
Other strategy-related costs (669) —
Total strategic and restructuring costs (14,225) —
Regulatory settlement costs (including legal fees) (826) —
Insurance claims and litigations — (15,241)
Acquisition expenses (1,082) —
Total exceptional costs (16,133) (15,241)
Net exceptional (costs)/income (13,599) 1,857
2015
Exceptional income
During 2015 there has been continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to Zoopla Property Group plc warrants which cease 
unwind at 31 December 2015 (see note 17(c)).
Exceptional costs
Strategic and restructuring costs
During the year the Group has undertaken the ‘Building our Future’ strategic review and incurred a number of exceptional, non-recurring costs 
in relation to the project and related restructuring costs. The principal elements are:
•
Following an initial period of organisational design work, a number of redundancies were made throughout the year as the leadership
structure evolved to meet the future needs of the Group. All redundancy costs directly related to this strategic review have been collated and
amounted to £3,289,000. This included the costs of redundancies which were communicated to the individuals prior to 31 December 2015,
and settlements agreed, but whose employment ceases during 2016.
•
The organisational redesign also resulted in the creation of a number of posts created to meet the revised needs of the Group. As a result,
recruitment costs of £478,000 were incurred during the year.
•
As part of the strategic review, external agencies have been involved where specialists skills have been required. Consultancy costs of £3,288,000
have been incurred in relation to a number of projects that include: strategic support and change management; IT transformation; organisational
redesign; talent development and leadership skills training; and internal communication in support of specific strategic objectives identified.
•
The Group decided to rationalise its property footprint in London to integrate the London and B2B teams into our existing commercial and
corporate rented property in Oxford Street. As a result, the Group sold its existing leasehold premises in Grosvenor Square generating a profit
on sale of £836,000 (net of legal costs). Offsetting this profit are costs in relation to exiting additional space in London that was surplus to
requirements. As a result, costs of £1,211,000 were incurred in relation to dilapidations costs, onerous lease provisions and the rental costs
of the additional Oxford Street space during the three-month period of refurbishment and relocation when costs were also being incurred in
the original sites.
•
Following the reorganisation of business units, a review of brands was undertaken and as a result of this rationalisation of intended future brand
use an impairment of £6,126,000 was identified (note 14).
Other costs directly related to the strategic review were collated, and whilst individually immaterial, these aggregate to a total cost of £669,000 
and principally relate to the costs of strategic sessions and leadership training.
Regulatory settlement costs
On 19 March 2015, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) concluded its investigation into an association of estate and lettings agents 
in Hampshire. Hamptons Estates Limited was one of three parties forming part of an association that admitted arrangements which had the object 
of reducing competitive pressure on estate agents and lettings agents’ fees in the local area in and around Fleet in Hampshire in a period 
prior to the Group’s ownership. The exceptional cost above reflects the penalty payable to the CMA and associated legal costs.
Acquisition expenses
The Group incurred acquisition expenses of £1,082,000 across a number of transactions undertaken during the year (note 29). Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 93
10. Exceptional items continued
2014
Exceptional income
During 2014 there was continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to Zoopla warrants which continue to unwind over the 
period to 31 December 2015.
In addition, the Group disposed of a significant proportion of its shareholding in Zoopla Property Group plc as part of the IPO process in June 2014 
and the associated profit is disclosed above.
Exceptional costs
As part of the year-end process in 2014, the Group performed a detailed review of the latest data and trends on professional indemnity 
(PI) costs and believed that it was prudent to increase the provision for PI claims accordingly. The key elements behind this charge were an 
unexpected level of claims brought about under common law outside of the primary statutory limitation period, rather than under contract 
law, together with a slight deterioration of claims previously notified and an increase in the average loss per claim. Further information can 
be found in note 3 – Critical accounting judgements.
11. Taxation
Analysis of charge in year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current tax on profits for the year 8,543 17,241
Adjustments in respect of prior years (82) (701)
Total current tax 8,461 16,540
Deferred tax on profits for the year
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,196 (3,747)
Impact of change in tax rate (3,483) (1,219)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (232) 138
Total deferred tax (note 24) (2,519) (4,828)
Income tax charge 5,942 11,712
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Tax on items charged to equity
Deferred tax adjustment arising on share-based payments (767) (369)
Tax on items (charged)/credited to other comprehensive income
Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities (650) 507
The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.49%). The differences are explained below: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 47,710 79,648
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.49%) 9,661 17,116
Effects of:
Profits from joint venture 185 (175)
Other expenses not deductible 1,892 1,459
Permanent difference relating to depreciation not deductible 907 231
Tax relief on purchased goodwill (152) (302)
Tax relief on share-based payments charged to equity (1,715) —
Rate change on deferred tax provision (3,510) (1,219)
Income not subject to tax due to availability of unprovided losses (1,128) (4,850)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (314) (563)
Overseas losses 116 15
Total taxation charge 5,942 11,712
The changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies announced in the Summer 2015 Budget were substantively enacted for 
financial reporting purposes in Finance (No 2) Act 2015 on 18 November 2015. The main rate of corporation tax will reduce to 19% from 
1 April 2017 and will reduce to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured using rates applicable to when the balances are expected to unwind.  Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 94
Notes to the financial statements continued
12. Dividends
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
– final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 10.0 pence (net) per share (2013: 6.0 pence (net) per share) 21,963 13,167
– interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 5.0 pence (net) per share (2014: 5.0 pence (net) per share) 10,981 10,972
– special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of nil pence (net) per share (2014: 9.0 pence (net) per share) — 19,750
Total 32,944 43,889
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 10.0 pence (net) per share, amounting to an estimated total dividend 
of £22.0 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 27 April 2016. In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the 
balance sheet date’, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares of Countrywide plc.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 41,351 67,477
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,447,386 218,811,538
Basic earnings per share (in pence per share) 18.93p 30.84p
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares arising from share options.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 41,351 67,477
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,447,386 218,811,538
Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable share options 1,264,900 6,047,243
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 219,712,286 224,858,781
Diluted earnings per share (in pence per share) 18.82p 30.01p
Adjusted earnings
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 41,351 67,477
Adjusted for the following items, net of taxation:
Amortisation arising on intangibles recognised through business combinations 4,542 5,990
Contingent consideration 8,947 —
Share-based payments charge 3,628 11,933
Exceptional income (2,534) (17,098)
Exceptional costs 14,309 11,966
Adjusted earnings, net of taxation 70,243 80,268
Adjusted basic earnings per share (in pence per share) 32.16p 36.68p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (in pence per share) 31.97p 35.70p Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 95
14. Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 835,852 797,190
Arising on acquisitions (note 29) 53,130 38,726
Disposals — (64)
At 31 December 888,982 835,852
Accumulated impairment (note 14(c))
At 1 January 417,356 417,356
Charge for the year — —
At 31 December 417,356 417,356
Net book amount
At 31 December 471,626 418,496
(b) Other intangible assets
2015
Computer 
software
 £’000
Brand 
names
£’000 
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Pipeline
£’000
Other
intangibles
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 — 396,904
Acquisitions through business combinations (see note 29) 3 4,446 15,287 534 — 20,270
Additions 5,431 — — — — 5,431
Disposals (15,521) — — — — (15,521)
At 31 December 52,661 223,185 125,545 5,693 — 407,084
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 — 159,908
Charge for the year 5,936 — 10,710 468 — 17,114
Impairment (note 14) — 6,126 — — — 6,126
On disposals (15,521) — — — — (15,521)
At 31 December 38,730 39,970 83,300 5,627 — 167,627
Net book amount
At 31 December 13,931 183,215 42,245 66 — 239,457
Computer software includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance lease 6,381 6,381
Accumulated depreciation (1,808) (532)
Net book amount 4,573 5,849 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 96
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets continued
(b) Other intangible assets continued
2014
Computer 
software
 £’000
Brand 
names
£’000 
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Pipeline
£’000
Other
intangibles
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195
Acquisitions through business combinations (see note 29) — 2,727 7,850 512 — 11,089
Additions 6,104 — — — — 6,104
Disposals (212) — — — (1,272) (1,484)
At 31 December 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 — 396,904
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783
Charge for the year 4,423 — 9,568 512 32 14,535
On disposals (191) — — — (219) (410)
At 31 December 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 — 159,908
Net book amount
At 31 December 14,433 184,895 37,668 — — 236,996
All amortisation and impairment charges are treated as an expense in the income statement. Brand names are treated as having an indefinite 
life, as a result of the fact that the Group will continue to operate these brands into perpetuity, and are therefore subject to annual, or more 
frequent, impairment reviews if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
A review of brands was undertaken following the reorganisation of the business units. Rationalisation of intended future brand use by the London 
business unit has resulted in an impairment charge of £6,126,000 (see note 10). All remaining brands have been reviewed with no further 
impairment identified. The carrying amounts of various brand names owned by the Group are disclosed below. 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Brand names
Bairstow Eves 17,173 17,173 
John D Wood 14,464 14,464 
Mann & Co 5,462 9,418 
Slater Hogg & Howison 9,709 9,709 
Taylors Estate Agents 10,071 10,071 
Hamptons International 58,774 58,774 
Blundell Property Services 6,494 6,494
Lambert Smith Hampton 28,377 28,377
150,524 154,480
Other brands 32,691 30,415
Net book value 183,215 184,895 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 97
14. Intangible assets continued
(c) Impairment
The reorganisation of the Group into four new business units has led to a change in the composition of the Group’s cash generating units
(CGUs), which represent the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from
other groups of assets. In accordance with internal management structures, the new CGUs comprise Retail, London and Financial Services,
with the B2B business unit being split further into Professional Services, Countrywide Residential Development Solutions and Commercial.
Management monitors goodwill and intangible assets at this CGU level. In many cases, the operations of the acquired businesses have been
fully integrated with the existing businesses and therefore it is not possible to identify separately the economic flows from those businesses.
Where necessary, assets have therefore been reallocated to the new CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in
which the goodwill or intangible asset arose as follows:
B2B CGUs
2015
Retail 
£’000 
London 
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Professional
Services
£’000
Countrywide
Residential
Development
Solutions
£’000
Commercial 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000
Goodwill 168,650 71,960 87,888 132,890 775 9,463 471,626
Indefinite life intangible assets 68,054 86,784 — — — 28,377 183,215
236,704 158,744 87,888 132,890 775 37,840 654,841
B2B CGUs
2014 
Retail 
£’000 
London 
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Professional
Services
£’000
Countrywide
Residential
Development
Solutions
£’000
Commercial 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000
Goodwill 137,861 55,284 87,888 132,890 — 4,573 418,496
Indefinite life intangible assets 68,054 88,464 — — — 28,377 184,895
205,915 143,748 87,888 132,890 — 32,950 603,391
Under IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group is required to:
•
review its intangible assets in the event of a significant change in circumstances that would indicate potential impairment; and
•
review and test its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually or in the event of a significant change in circumstances.
The 2015 impairment review was performed in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ by comparing the carrying amount of each 
CGU against its recoverable amount. Given the structural reorganisation during 2015, the impairment review was undertaken on both the 
old CGU basis and the new CGU structure.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value-in-use calculations that have been determined from cash flow projections derived 
from formally approved strategic budgets and forecasts covering the three-year period from 2016 to 2018 with nil growth for 2019 and 2020. 
Growth rates applied within the strategic plan are based on past experience, market data and expectation of future market outlook and 
development. For the purpose of the impairment review, to evaluate the recoverable amount of each division, a terminal value has been 
assumed from the fifth year and includes a growth rate in the cash flows of 0% into perpetuity. The discount rate used is based on the 
Group’s estimated cost of capital.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based comprise:
•
3% growth in UK housing volumes in 2016, 2% growth in 2017 and 2018, and 0% growth assumed for subsequent periods;
•
a pre-tax discount rate of 9%; and
•
the benefits of past restructuring changes which have been taken into account where there is appropriate certainty over cost reductions.
The 2015 goodwill impairment review concluded that the recoverable amount for each CGU to which goodwill is allocated exceeded the carrying 
value of each CGU under both the old and the new CGU structures, resulting in no indication of impairment (2014: £Nil).
A similar impairment review of indefinite life intangible assets identified an impairment of £6.1 million (2014: £Nil) against brands as a direct 
result of the decision to rationalise intended future brand use within the London business unit following the strategic review and resultant 
reorganisation of the Group (see note 10). The strategic review concluded that certain London brands will be abandoned, with the existing 
businesses rebranded to other London brand names held by the Group. The impairment review did not identify any further impairment of 
CGUs containing indefinite life intangible assets.
The 2014 impairment review was based on cash flows from the five-year approved strategic plan for the period from 2015 to 2019, with a terminal 
value from the fifth year and a growth rate of 0% into perpetuity. The discount rate used for the 2014 impairment review was 8%. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 98
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets continued
(c) Impairment continued
Cumulative impairments, including the brand impairment identified during the current year combined with previous impairments resulting from the
severe financial crisis that originated in 2008, amount to the following:
Goodwill
£’000
Brand 
names
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cash generating unit
Retail 217,319 33,844 — 251,163
London 45,961 6,126 — 52,087
Financial Services 114,076 — — 114,076
B2B – Professional Services 40,000 — 10,500 50,500
B2B – Countrywide Residential Development Solutions — — — —
B2B – Commercial — — — —
417,356 39,970 10,500 467,826
Sensitivity analysis
Management has undertaken sensitivity analyses to determine the effect of changes in assumptions on the outcome of the 2015 impairment 
reviews. The key assumptions driving the value-in-use calculations are the discrete growth rates underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each 
CGU across the Group, including housing market volumes, financial services transaction volumes and the effects of strategic acquisitions within 
each CGU. Management considered various scenarios which concluded that appropriate headroom existed between the recoverable values and 
the carrying values of each CGU. In line with the sensitivity analysis undertaken in 2014, an aggressive scenario was also modelled to determine 
the impact of applying nil growth rates in 2016 and beyond across all CGUs, but keeping all other cash flows such as capital investment in line 
with the strategic plan. This scenario resulted in goodwill allocated to the Retail CGU being impaired by £91 million. Management does not 
consider this impairment scenario to be likely; mitigating actions are available should the Group experience a market downturn. 
A similar sensitivity analysis conducted at the end of 2014, with nil growth in housing transaction volumes in 2015 and beyond, identified that 
goodwill allocated to the B2B Professional Services CGU would be impaired by £37 million largely as a result of increased professional indemnity 
liabilities. Management did not consider that impairment scenario to be a likely outcome due to the CGU having secured additional contracts and 
having plans in place for improved growth and efficiencies.
Sensitivity analysis has also been undertaken in respect of the discount rate applied within the value-in-use calculations. Significant headroom 
remained when different discount rates were applied, resulting in no identification of potential impairment.
15. Property, plant and equipment
2015 
Land and 
buildings 
 £’000
Leasehold
improvements
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
 £’000
Furniture
and
equipment
 £’000
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
 £’000
Total 
£’000 
Cost 
At 1 January 2,093 32,537 578 67,904 5,529 108,641
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) — 100 4 1,625 — 1,729
Additions at cost — 2,585 219 6,943 9,941 19,688
Disposals (167) (3,197) (2) (11,399) — (14,765)
Transfers — 9,439 — — (9,439) —
At 31 December 1,926 41,464 799 65,073 6,031 115,293
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 340 18,932 57 43,789 — 63,118
Charge for the year 22 4,038 120 10,064 — 14,244
Disposals (28) (644) (1) (11,370) — (12,043)
At 31 December 334 22,326 176 42,483 — 65,319
Net book amount
At 31 December 1,592 19,138 623 22,590 6,031 49,974
Assets in the course of construction with a value of £6,031,000 relate principally to branch refurbishments in progress for which no depreciation 
has been charged. Depreciation commences when the asset enters operational use and the asset is transferred to the operational asset category. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 99
15. Property, plant and equipment continued
2014
Land and 
buildings 
 £’000
Leasehold
improvements
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
 £’000
Furniture
and
equipment
 £’000
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
 £’000
Total 
£’000 
Cost 
At 1 January 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 — 86,418
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) — — 22 372 — 394
Additions at cost — 4,280 262 13,835 5,529 23,906
Disposals (99) (524) (150) (1,304) — (2,077)
At 31 December 2,093 32,537 578 67,904 5,529 108,641
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 341 16,767 14 37,823 — 54,945
Charge for the year 23 2,594 122 7,085 — 9,824
Disposals (24) (429) (79) (1,119) — (1,651)
At 31 December 340 18,932 57 43,789 — 63,118
Net book amount
At 31 December 1,753 13,605 521 24,115 5,529 45,523
Furniture and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of computer hardware where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance lease 9,683 12,062
Accumulated depreciation (5,404) (1,829)
Net book amount 4,279 10,233
The Group leases various assets, principally computer hardware and related costs, under finance lease agreements whose terms are between 
three and eight years.
Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred, relating to 2015 and the three subsequent years, 
is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 4,437 3,688
16. Investment property
£’000
At 1 January 2015 13,235
Capital expenditure 171
Change in fair value of investment property 400
Transfer to available-for-sale assets (see note 17(c)) (13,806)
At 31 December 2015 —
Investment property acquired, which is property held to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value. Gains arising from changes 
in the fair value of investment property are included in profits for the year to which they relate. On 23 October 2014, the investment property 
was transferred into a separate, unlisted, residential property fund, Albion PRS Investments Unit Trust, now renamed Vista UK Residential 
Real Estate Unit Trust. In exchange, the Group received units in the property fund. The full independent fund structure, effectively removing 
any exercise of control to an independent trustee, was not in operation at the 2014 year end. As a result, the assets were consolidated and 
reflected directly within investment property. However, this asset holding was transferred to available-for-sale financial assets on completion 
of the independent fund structure and loss of control of the structure in May 2015.
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December 2014 was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by CBRE Limited, 
independent valuers not connected with the Group. The valuation conforms to International Valuation Standards. The fair value was determined 
based on comparable market transactions on arm’s length terms and was based on the Market Rent valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy 
of the investment property has been deemed to be Level 2. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 100
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Investments
(a) Principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group
The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertakings,
most of which are incorporated in Great Britain, and whose operations are conducted in the United Kingdom. Principal subsidiary undertakings
of the Group at 31 December 2015 are presented below:
Subsidiary Nature of business
Country of
incorporation
Proportion of 
ordinary shares 
held by 
parent
%
Proportion of 
ordinary shares 
held by 
the Group
%
Countrywide Group plc Holding company UK — 100
Balanus Limited Holding company UK — 100
Retail
Countrywide Estate Agents Estate Agency and Lettings UK — 100
London 
Hamptons Group Limited Holding company UK — 100
Hamptons Estates Limited Estate Agency and Lettings Hong Kong — 100
B2B
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Property consultancy UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (N Ireland) Property consultancy UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (Ireland) Property consultancy Ireland — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited Property consultancy UK — 100
Countrywide Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK — 100
United Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK — 100
Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited Conveyancing Services UK — 100
TitleAbsolute Limited Conveyancing Services UK — 100
Financial Services
Countrywide Principal Services Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Intelligence Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Next Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Capital Private Finance Limited Financial Services UK — 51
Life and Easy Limited Financial Services UK — 100
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2015 is included within the Appendix. The appendix on pages 128 to 130 forms part of 
these financial statements. 
Following the liquidation of Countrywide Social Housing Limited during 2015, summary financial information for the remaining subsidiary that 
has non-controlling interests is presented below:
Capital Private Finance Limited
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current assets 138 470
Non-current assets 3 5
Current liabilities (228) (209)
Non-current liabilities (89) (103)
Net (liabilities)/assets (176) 163
Revenues 1,961 1,889
Net profit 716 490
Dividends paid 670 435
There is no other comprehensive income arising in the above subsidiary in either year.  Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 101
17. Investments continued
(b) Interests in joint venture
TM Group (UK) Limited
At 31 December 2015 the Group had a 33% (2014: 33%) interest in the ordinary share capital of TM Group (UK) Limited (TMG), a UK company.
TMG has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and is a private company with no quoted market price available for its shares. TMG
is one of the largest companies in the provision of searches to the property companies sector (measured by completed searches). It delivers
a range of property searches and data to land and property professionals in the UK, arranges for property searches directly with specific
suppliers on behalf of its own customers, and has also started to supply IT applications and products to UK mortgage lenders.
There are no outstanding commitments or contingent liabilities relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture. 
During the year, TMG was a joint venture company.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At 1 January:
– net assets excluding goodwill 1,739 1,433
– goodwill 1,480 1,480
3,219 2,913
Dividend received — (507)
Share of (losses)/profits retained (914) 813
At 31 December:
– net assets excluding goodwill 825 1,739
– goodwill 1,480 1,480
2,305 3,219
The summarised financial information of TM Group (UK) Limited, which is accounted for using the equity method, is presented below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and equivalents 7,465 5,715
Other current assets (excluding cash) 2,149 2,474
Total current assets 9,614 8,189
Non-current assets 806 712
Current liabilities (7,946) (3,684)
Net assets 2,474 5,217
Net assets adjusted for the percentage of ownership 825 1,739
Income 61,447 59,283
Depreciation (284) (166)
Expenses (excluding depreciation) (63,957) (56,726)
Interest income 52 48
Post-tax results (2,742) 2,439
Share of post-tax results (914) 813
There is no other comprehensive income arising in the joint venture in either year. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 102
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Investments continued
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At 1 January 33,290 42,877
Transferred from investment property (see note 16) 13,806 —
Zoopla shares purchased for cash 2,090 2,090
Zoopla shares acquired on crystallisation of warrants — 2,835
Disposal of Zoopla shares (383) (17,786)
Acquisition of shares in unlisted equity and debentures 348 96
Increase in fair value through income statement on the date of purchase 802 —
Movement in fair value 7,836 3,200
Amortisation (29) (22)
At 31 December 57,760 33,290
Available-for-sale financial assets, which are all Sterling denominated, include the following:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Listed equity securities: Zoopla Property Group plc 42,856 33,165
Unlisted residential property fund units 14,455 —
Unlisted equity 353 60
Wimbledon debentures (acquired and amortised over the life of the debenture) 96 65
At 31 December 57,760 33,290
In May 2012, Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group and as a result crystallised some warrants into shares which were due under an 
arm’s length commercial agreement. The fair value of these shares was assessed based on the most recent price paid for shares. As a result of 
acquiring the additional shares for a nominal price and the fact that these shares were issued to the Group as part of the commercial agreement 
signed in 2010 to list the Group’s properties for sale and rent on the Zoopla website, the excess in the assessed fair value of these shares on 
initial recognition over the nominal cost has been treated as deferred income and is being released over the period of the contract ended in 
2015. The amount released to the income statement is disclosed in note 10 and the amount held on the balance sheet as deferred income 
is identified in note 22.
In June 2014, Zoopla plc listed on the London Stock Exchange and as a result crystallised some additional warrants into shares which were 
due under a further commercial agreement signed in 2014 to extend the listing period on the Zoopla website. The excess in the assessed 
fair value of these shares on initial recognition, over the nominal cost, has been treated as deferred income (£2,835,000) and will be released 
over the three-year period of the contract from 2016 to 2018 (see note 22).
There was a transfer of investment property into available-for-sale financial assets during the year arising from the loss of control of the investment 
property fund as planned (see note 16). There was a change in valuation technique from that applied at 31 December 2014 and whilst the 
fair value of the investment within the investment property fund has remained at Level 2, this is now based on receipt of a net asset valuation 
statement from the trustees on a quarterly basis.
18. Trade and other receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables not past due 51,361 42,512
Trade receivables past due but not impaired 29,400 22,818
Trade receivables past due but impaired 3,124 4,165
Trade receivables 83,885 69,495
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (3,124) (4,165)
Trade receivables – net 80,761 65,330
Amounts due from customers for contract work 2,241 1,251
Other receivables 19,413 14,243
Prepayments and accrued income 21,017 17,820
123,432 98,644
Trade and other receivables are all current and any fair value difference is not material. Trade receivables are considered past due once they 
have passed their contracted due date. Significant trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due. All trade receivables are 
reviewed for impairment if they are past due beyond 90 days for individual customers or 180 days for commercial contracts. Further information 
in respect of financial assets, including credit risk, is provided in note 34. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 103
18. Trade and other receivables continued
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £29,400,000 (2014: £22,818,000) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number 
of customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Less than 3 months 18,417 15,647
Over 3 months 10,983 7,171
29,400 22,818
Trade and other receivables are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of £728,000 (2014: £252,000) which are receivable 
in Hong Kong Dollars and Euros.
A summary of the movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
At 1 January 4,165 3,848
Additional provisions (note 7) 607 1,181
Amounts utilised (1,648) (864)
At 31 December 3,124 4,165
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does 
not hold any collateral as security.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 21,246 16,578
Short term bank deposits 3,090 12,005
24,336 28,583
Of the short term bank deposits, a number were interest bearing within the following range: 2015: 0.5%–0.55% (2014: 0.5%–0.55%).
The following amounts were held in foreign currencies: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Hong Kong Dollars 126 134
Euros 325 —
Barbadian Dollars — 121
451 255
20. Trade and other payables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables 13,261 13,875
Other financial liabilities 2,700 2,560
Deferred consideration 7,987 5,103
23,948 21,538
Other tax and social security payable 31,577 26,988
Accruals and other payables 77,687 65,130
133,212 113,656
Trade and other payables due within one year 128,503 109,312
Trade and other payables due after one year 4,709 4,344
133,212 113,656
The principal components of trade and other payables due after one year are payments of £3,099,000 due under bonus awards (2014: £1,171,000) 
and accrued National Insurance share-based payment charges of £1,610,000 (2014: £613,000). Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 104
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Trade and other payables continued
At 31 December 2015, other financial liabilities include put options of £2,700,000 (2014: £2,560,000) to acquire the non-controlling 
interests in an entity acquired in 2011 (see note 17(a)). These financial liabilities are held at the present value of the expected redemption 
amount, which is based on management’s expectation of performance, consistent with operating plans approved.
These options are exercisable as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Exercisable in 2016 2,700 2,560
The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities. Financial liabilities are denominated in Pounds Sterling 
with the exception of £419,000 (2014: £135,000).
21. Borrowings
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current
Bank borrowings — 80,000
Other loans 1,000 1,000
Capitalised banking fees (1,872) (1,613)
Finance lease liabilities 5,458 7,563
4,586 86,950
Current
Bank borrowings 200,000 40,000
Finance lease liabilities 4,662 4,760
204,662 44,760
Total borrowings 209,248 131,710
Analysis of net debt 
At
1 January 
2015
£’000
Cash flow
£’000
Non-cash
changes
£’000
At
31 December 
2015
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 (4,247) — 24,336
Capitalised banking fees 1,613 1,127 (868) 1,872
Loan notes (1,000) — — (1,000)
Term loan due after one year (80,000) 80,000 — —
Term loan due within one year (20,000) 20,000 — —
Revolving credit facility due within one year (20,000) (180,000) — (200,000)
Finance leases due after one year (7,563) — 2,105 (5,458)
Finance leases due within one year (4,760) 5,363 (5,265) (4,662)
Total (103,127) (77,757) (4,028) (184,912)
Borrowings and other loans
On 6 February 2015 the Company entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to the term and revolving credit facility 
agreement, originally dated 20 March 2013, which is due to expire in March 2018. The facility is now a £250 million revolving credit facility 
(RCF), with no term loan elements, with any outstanding balance repayable in full on 20 March 2018. Interest is currently payable based on 
LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%. The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and the margin rate is reviewed twice a year (and can 
vary between 1.5% and 2.25%). The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge and leverage covenants and £80 million 
was drawn down during the period.
The unsecured loan notes are non-interest bearing, repayable in 2029, and arose on the purchase of Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 105
21. Borrowings continued
Finance lease liabilities
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
No later than one year 5,026 5,087
Later than one year and no later than five years 5,795 8,444
10,821 13,531
Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities (701) (1,208)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 10,120 12,323
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
No later than one year 4,662 4,760
Later than one year and no later than five years 5,458 7,563
10,120 12,323
22. Deferred income
Deferred income will unwind as follows:
2015 2014
Cash 
£’000
Non-cash
£’000
Total
£’000
Total
£’000
Within one year 3,166 945 4,111 5,708
After one year:
Between one and two years 3,077 945 4,022 4,021
Between two and three years — 945 945 1,995
Between three and four years — — — 945
3,077 1,890 4,967 6,961
6,243 2,835 9,078 12,669
The Group recognises deferred income as a result of cash received in advance in relation to certain sales distribution contracts and lease 
incentives relating to the Group’s operating leases. The cash received is amortised over the life of the contracts to which they relate.
Non-cash proportion of deferred income relates to unamortised income portion created on acquisition of shares in Zoopla Property Group plc. 
This deferred income is being amortised over the period of the commercial agreements which gave rise to these assets (refer to notes 10 and 17).
23. Provisions
2015
Onerous
contracts 
£’000 
Property
repairs 
£’000 
Clawback 
£’000 
Claims and
litigation 
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
At 1 January 1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492
Acquired in acquisition (note 29) — — — — 94 94
Utilised in the year (598) (1,248) (6,920) (10,760) (118) (19,644)
Charged to income statement 709 855 7,231 2,883 (391) 11,287
Unwind of discount rate 6 — — — — 6
At 31 December 1,262 3,477 3,735 28,909 1,852 39,235
Due within one year or less 83 1,092 2,478 18,146 537 22,336
Due after more than one year 1,179 2,385 1,257 10,763 1,315 16,899
1,262 3,477 3,735 28,909 1,852 39,235 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 106
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Provisions continued
2014
Onerous
contracts 
£’000 
Property
repairs 
£’000 
Clawback 
£’000 
Claims and
litigation 
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
At 1 January 1,943 4,276 2,857 32,909 3,130 45,115
Acquired in acquisition (note 29) — 202 — 75 — 277
Utilised in the year (863) (910) (5,685) (14,425) (863) (22,746)
Charged to income statement 18 302 6,252 18,227 — 24,799
Unwind of discount rate 47 — — — — 47
At 31 December 1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492
Due within one year or less 423 2,021 2,444 16,889 258 22,035
Due after more than one year 722 1,849 980 19,897 2,009 25,457
1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492
The provision for onerous contracts relates to property leases and represents the estimated unavoidable costs of leasehold properties which 
have become surplus to the Group’s requirements following the closure or relocation of operations. The provision is based on the present 
value of rentals and other unavoidable costs payable during the remaining lease period after taking into account rents receivable or expected 
to be receivable from sub-lessees, typically over a five-year period. Provisions are released when properties are assigned or sub-let. 
The provision for property repairs represents estimates of the cost to repair existing dilapidations under leasehold covenants, in accordance 
with IAS 37 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’ . The average unexpired lease length of properties against which a provision 
has been made is two years.
Clawback represents the provision required to meet the estimated cost of repaying indemnity commission income received on life assurance 
policies that may lapse in the two years following issue. 
Claims and litigation provisions comprise the amounts set aside to meet claims by customers below the level of any PI insurance excess, the 
estimation of IBNR claims and any amounts that might be payable as a result of any legal disputes. The provisions represent the directors’ best 
estimate of the Group’s liability having taken professional advice. 
In addition to the claims provisions recognised, the Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims (IBNR) for mortgage valuation 
reports and home buyer reports provided by the Surveying Services division. The basis for calculating this provision is outlined further in note 3. 
While there are many factors which determine the settlement date of any claims, the expected cash flows are estimated based on the average 
length of time it takes to settle claims in the past, which is around two years.
Other provisions mainly comprise items relating to operational reorganisation including some business closure costs and some IT transition 
expenses which are expected to be utilised over the next three years. 
24. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 18%–20% (2014: 20%).
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred tax liability at 1 January (28,643) (31,507)
Credited to income statement 2,519 4,828
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) (2,483) (2,089)
Disposed on disposal of subsidiary — (13)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income (650) 507
Charged to equity (767) (369)
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (30,024) (28,643)
Deferred tax asset 10,645 16,215
Deferred tax liability (40,669) (44,858)
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (30,024) (28,643)
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 43 1,694
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 10,602 14,521
10,645 16,215
Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year (1,826) (1,600)
Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year (38,843) (43,258)
(40,669) (44,858)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the 
extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits.  Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 107
24. Deferred tax continued
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) 
during the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there 
is an intention to settle the balances net. 
2015 
Asset/
(liability)
 £’000
(Charged)/
credited
to income
£’000
Charged to other
comprehensive
income/equity
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
Capital allowances 6,705 (787) —
Employee pension liabilities 83 (311) (650)
Share-based payments 1,516 (3,027) (767)
Trading losses 116 (590) —
Intangible assets (39,782) 6,882 —
Gain deferred by roll-over relief (887) — —
Other temporary and deductible differences 2,225 600 —
(30,024) 2,767 (1,417)
2014
Asset/
(liability)
 £’000
(Charged)/
credited
to income
£’000 
Credited to other
comprehensive
income/(charged 
to equity)
£’000  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 
Capital allowances 7,535 (1,395) —
Employee pension liabilities 1,043 (396) 507
Share-based payments 5,308 2,533 (369)
Trading losses 705 (787) —
Intangible assets (43,970) 4,123 —
Gain deferred by roll-over relief (887) — —
Other temporary and deductible differences 1,623 750 —
(28,643) 4,828 138
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused capital losses of £19,759,000 (2014: £24,375,000), in respect of non-trading 
loan relationships of £106,000 (2014: £629,000), and in respect of trading losses of £49,000 (2014: £248,000). There is no expiry date 
attributable to these unrecognised deferred tax assets, but no assets have been recognised as there are currently no expectations of offsetting 
income streams arising, with the exception of the value noted below where an identical liability would also be recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the tax impact of the unrealised capital gain of £7,473,000 (2014: £5,966,000) 
arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets because the unrecognised losses above would offset any future gain.
25. Post-employment benefits
The Group offers membership of the Countrywide plc Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) to eligible employees, the only pension arrangements 
operated by the Group. The Scheme has two sections of membership: defined contribution and defined benefit. 
Defined contribution pension arrangements
The pensions cost for the defined contribution scheme in the year was £6,687,000 (2014: £5,637,000).
Defined benefit pension arrangements
In the past the Group offered a defined benefit pension arrangement; however, this was closed to new entrants in 1988 and subsequently 
closed to further service accrual at the end of 2003. Members of the defined benefit arrangements earned benefits linked to final pensionable 
salary and service at the date of retirement or date of leaving the scheme if earlier. The average duration of the defined benefit pension 
scheme is 16 years.
The defined benefit pension arrangements provide pension benefits to its members based on earnings at the date of leaving the scheme. 
Pensions in payment are updated in line with the minimum of 4% or retail price index (RPI) inflation. The Scheme is established and administered 
in the UK and ultimately overseen by the Pensions Ombudsman. The regulatory framework requires the Group to fund the scheme every three 
years and for the Group to agree the valuation with the trustees. As such, the funding arrangements were reviewed as part of the recent valuation 
(as at 5 April 2015). The Group is responsible for ensuring that pension arrangements are adequately funded and the directors have agreed 
a funding programme to bring down the deficit in the defined benefit scheme over the next three years. During the year, the Group paid £1.9 million 
(2014: £1.9 million) to the defined benefit scheme. During the year which commenced on 1 January 2016, the employer is expected to pay 
contributions of £1.9 million (2015: £1.9 million). Further contributions of £1.9 million will be made in each of the next three years. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 108
Notes to the financial statements continued
25. Post-employment benefits continued
Defined benefit pension arrangements continued
The Group’s obligations under the pension arrangements are subject to inherent estimation uncertainty. While the trustees and actuary assess 
the value of the scheme assets, and the extent of the liabilities, they are obliged to make a number of assumptions, sensitivities to which are 
detailed later on. Furthermore, the scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed to risks in the equities and bond 
markets and similarly the liabilities can fluctuate according to gilt or corporate bond rate.
The Scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension 
liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the Scheme’s beneficiaries and they take 
independent advice when deliberating matters relating to the Scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme under defined pension arrangements are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be 
paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method, which is an accrued benefits valuation method. 
The defined benefit liabilities set out in this note have been calculated by an independent actuary based on the results of the most recent full 
actuarial valuation at 5 April 2015, updated to 31 December 2015. The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are shown below.
The Group immediately recognises the actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income as shown in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Present value of funded obligations (47,850) (50,740)
Fair value of plan assets 47,435 45,524
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (415) (5,216)
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
Present value of
obligation
£’000
Fair value of
plan assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2015 (50,740) 45,524 (5,216)
Expected return on scheme assets — 1,579 1,579
Actuarial gain — 1,121 1,121
Employer contributions — 1,900 1,900
Service cost (193) — (193)
Interest cost (1,733) — (1,733)
Actuarial gain from changes in financial assumptions 1,700 — 1,700
Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,029 — 1,029
Actuarial loss from changes in experience adjustments (602) — (602)
Benefits paid 2,496 (2,496) —
Expenses 193 (193) —
At 31 December 2015 (47,850) 47,435 (415)
Present value of
obligation
£’000
Fair value of
plan assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 (43,581) 39,143 (4,438)
Expected return on scheme assets — 1,771 1,771
Actuarial gain — 4,252 4,252
Employer contributions — 1,900 1,900
Service cost (105) — (105)
Interest cost (1,929) — (1,929)
Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions (6,667) — (6,667)
Benefits paid 1,437 (1,437) —
Expenses 105 (105) —
At 31 December 2014 (50,740) 45,524 (5,216) Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 109
25. Post-employment benefits continued
Defined benefit pension arrangements continued
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are:
2015
%
2014
%
Cash 1 1
UK equities 5 5
Overseas equities 6 5
UK fixed interest gilts 11 12
Corporate bonds 46 47
Other – GARS 11 10
Other – insured pensioners 20 20
100 100
Insured pensioners and cash constitute unquoted investments. All other investments are managed funds either quoted directly or comprising 
quoted investments. The Group does not have any of its own transferable instruments, property occupied or other assets used held as plan assets.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current service cost 193 105
Net interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (within finance costs) 154 158
Total charge to the income statement 347 263
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Actuarial gain on scheme assets 1,121 4,252
Actuarial gain/(loss) on scheme liabilities:
Actuarial gain/(loss) from changes in financial assumptions 1,700 (6,667)
Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,029 —
Changes due to experience adjustments (602) —
Other comprehensive income 3,248 (2,415)
Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities (650) 507
2,598 (1,908)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (after tax) (4,529) (7,127)
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 
2015 2014
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions
– On benefits earned prior to 1 December 1999 4.20% 4.15%
– On benefits earned after 1 December 1999 3.10% 2.80%
Discount rate 3.70% 3.50%
RPI inflation 2.20% 2.85%
CPI inflation 1.20% 1.85%
Expected net return on plan assets 3.50% 3.50%
Cash commutation 20% 20%
Life expectancy at age 65 (years)
– Male pensioner member 22.8 22.8
– Female pensioner member 24.7 25.0
– Male pensioner non-member (age 45 now) 24.5 24.6
– Female pensioner non-member (age 45 now) 26.6 26.9
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio 
is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on 
the target assets allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.  Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 110
Notes to the financial statements continued
25. Post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used. The defined benefit obligation position revealed by IAS 19 calculations 
must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of the assets (with a significant exposure to equities) is being compared 
with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields. However, the Group has taken steps to mitigate these risks of asset volatility, 
including insuring some of the pensioners (as illustrated by the asset portfolio).
The sensitivity analyses (below) are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely 
to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity 
analysis did not change compared to those disclosed in the Listing Prospectus.
Defined
benefit obligation
£’000
Fair value
of assets
£’000
Deficit
£’000
Change from
disclosed deficit
£’000
Defined benefit obligation 47,850 47,435 415 —
Discount rate less 0.25% 49,594 47,660 1,934 1,519
RPI and linked assumptions plus 0.25% 48,042 47,444 598 183
Members living one year longer than assumed 49,955 47,974 1,981 1,566
Defined benefit obligation trends: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Scheme assets 47,435 45,524 39,143 37,906 38,071
Scheme liabilities (47,850) (50,740) (43,581) (44,518) (44,534)
Scheme deficit (415) (5,216) (4,438) (6,612) (6,463)
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities (602) — 84 1,156 (24)
Gain from changes in the demographic assumptions for value 
of scheme liabilities 1,029 — 1,015 644 —
Gain/(loss) from changes in the assumptions for value of scheme liabilities 1,700 (6,667) 28 (1,150) (4,237)
Experience gain/(loss) adjustments on assets 1,121 4,252 (474) (513) 1,660
Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits at 31 December 2015:
Less than 
one year
£’000
Between one
and two years
£’000
Between two
and five years
£’000
Over 
five years
£’000
Total
£’000
Undiscounted pension benefits 2,003 2,012 6,495 77,901 88,411
26. Share capital
Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each
Number £’000
At 1 January 2015 219,444,961 2,194
Share capital issued 196,873 2
At 31 December 2015 219,641,834 2,196
The Company acquired 1,465,000 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout January and February 2015. 
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £6,773,000. The shares were held as ‘treasury shares’ with those purchased in 2014. The 
Company then reissued all of these shares in March 2015 in respect of the IPO option vesting. All shares issued by the Company were fully 
paid. An additional 196,873 shares were issued at nominal value to complete the satisfaction of the IPO options crystallising in March 2015.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled or reissued. At the year end, 449,172 shares (2014: 225,151 shares), costing £2,241,000 (2014: £1,254,000), were held in 
relation to matching shares of the SIP scheme. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 111
27. Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes for executive directors and other employees. The Group has no legal or 
constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash. The total cost recognised in the income statement was £3,372,000 
in the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £12,860,000), comprising £3,226,000 of equity-settled share-based payments, and £146,000 
in respect of cash-settled share-based payments for the dividend accrual associated with those options. Employer’s NI is being accrued, where 
applicable, at the rate of 13.8% which management expects to be the prevailing rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the 
share price at the reporting date. The total NI charge for the year was £1,022,000 (2014: £1,607,000).
The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding:
Outstanding at 31 December
2015 2014 
Charge
£’000
Number 
of options
(thousands) 
Charge
£’000
Number 
of options
(thousands) 
IPO plan 3,288 1,221 10,560 7,185
Long term incentive plan (510) 2,033 2,097 1,550
Deferred share bonus plan 78 59 — —
Share incentive plan 516 449 203 225
3,372 3,762 12,860 8,960
A summary of the main features of each scheme is given below. The schemes have been split into two categories: executive schemes 
and other schemes. For further details on executive schemes, see the remuneration report on pages 54 to 66.
Executive schemes
IPO plan
At the time of the flotation in March 2013, the Company granted nil-cost share options to executive directors and designated senior management 
as one-off awards in recognition of the loss of rights under a management incentive package that terminated prior to, and as a result of, the flotation.
50% of the IPO options granted to the executive directors became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO 
option; the remaining 50% of the IPO options become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option. IPO options 
granted to other participants became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option. The number of options 
that vested in March 2015 was subject to the performance criterion based on EBITDA for 2014 as well as continued service and the vesting 
level achieved was 83%. The same criterion applies to the options that will vest in March 2016.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
The LTIP is open to executive directors and designated senior management, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee. Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria and vest over a three-year period.
Deferred share bonus plan (DSBP)
The Group operates a DSBP for executive directors and other senior employees whose bonus awards are settled partly in cash and partly in 
nil-cost share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The number of options that will vest is subject to market performance 
criteria over a three-year period and continued service. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 112
Notes to the financial statements continued
27. Share-based payments continued
Other schemes
Share incentive plan (SIP)
An HMRC approved share incentive plan was introduced in October 2013. Under the SIP, eligible employees are invited to make regular 
monthly contributions into a scheme operated by Capita. Ordinary shares in the Company are purchased at the current market price and 
an award of one matching share is made for every two shares acquired by an employee, subject to a vesting period of three years from 
the date of each monthly grant.
The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group is shown below:
2015 2014
Executive schemes* Other schemes Executive schemes* Other schemes
IPO 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
LTIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
DSBP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
S I P * 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
IPO 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
LTIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
DSBP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
S I P * 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
At 1 January 7,185 1,550 — 225 7,185 758 — 26
Granted — 1,130 59 228 — 792 — 199
Exercised (4,579) — — — — — — —
Lapsed (1,385) (647) — (4) — — — —
At 31 December 1,221 2,033 59 449 7,185 1,550 — 225
* Executive schemes are granted at £Nil consideration and SIP matching shares are granted at £Nil consideration.
The IPO options that became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO were the only scheme exercisable at the 
year end.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date (and all have £Nil exercise prices):
Exercise price
Share options (thousands)
Grant – vest Expiry date pence 2015 2014
IPO plan
18 March 2013–18 March 2015/2016 18 March 2021 — 1,221 7,185
LTIP grants
6 September 2013–6 September 2016 6 September 2023 — 561 758
21 March 2014–21 March 2017 21 March 2024 — 363 546
8 September 2014–8 September 2017 8 September 2024 — 246 246
16 March 2015–16 March 2018 16 March 2025 — 730 —
31 March 2015–31 March 2018 31 March 2025 — 24 —
21 September 2015–21 September 2018 21 September 2025 — 109 —
DSBP
22 May 2015–22 May 2018 22 May 2025 — 59 —
SIP
Monthly rolling grants and vesting three years later — 449 225
3,762 8,960
The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted during the year under the schemes:
IPO 
plan
LTIP 
(TSR condition)
LTIP 
(EPS condition) DSBP
Share 
incentive plan
Option pricing model Binomial Lattice Monte Carlo/
Stochastic
Black Scholes Fair value  
at grant date
Fair value  
at grant date
Weighted average share price at grant date 350p 494p–664p 494p–664p 576p 531p
Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p
Weighted average contractual life 2.2 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 1.5% 1.0–3.04% 1.0–2.56% 2.6% n/a
Risk-free interest rate 1.8% 0.5–0.9% n/a n/a n/a
Volatility n/a Statistical analysis 
of three years’ 
share price data
n/a n/a n/a Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 113
28. Other reserves
The following table provides a breakdown of ‘other reserves’ shown on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Capital
reorganisation
reserve
£’000
Foreign
exchange 
reserve
£’000
Available-for-sale
financial assets 
reserve
£’000
Treasury 
share
reserve
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 92,820 (56) 28,428 (226) 120,966
Currency translation differences — (117) — — (117)
Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — (11,076) — (11,076)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — 3,200 — 3,200
Treasury shares — — — (14,290) (14,290)
Balance at 1 January 2015 92,820 (173) 20,552 (14,516) 98,683
Currency translation differences — (255) — — (255)
Realisation of capital reorganisation reserve  
on liquidation of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd (92,820) — — — (92,820)
Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — (237) — (237)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — 7,836 — 7,836
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options — — — 20,035 20,035
Purchase of treasury shares — — — (7,760) (7,760)
Balance at 31 December 2015 — (428) 28,151 (2,241) 25,482
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders’ equity: 
Share premium 
The amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value less any costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares.
Capital reorganisation reserve
The capital reorganisation reserve represents the difference between the share capital of the Company and the share capital, share premium 
and capital redemption reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at the point of the exchange of equity interests on 19 March 2013.
Treasury share reserve
The treasury share reserve represents the consideration paid when the Company acquires its own shares and holds them as treasury shares 
as well as when the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital, until the shares are reissued. See note 26 for full 
details of treasury shares held.
Foreign exchange reserve
The foreign exchange reserve represents the difference arising from the changes to foreign exchange rates upon assets and liabilities 
of overseas subsidiaries.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve
The available-for-sale financial assets reserve represents the unrealised gain arising on the revaluation of these assets. 
Retained earnings
Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Group income statement and pension scheme gains and losses, movement in fair value 
of available-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 114
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Acquisitions during the year
During 2015, the Retail business unit acquired 27 operations as part of the targeted acquisition strategy to increase the Group’s footprint in 
certain under-represented geographical areas. The total consideration in respect of these acquisitions was £38.3 million, the most significant 
of which were on 10 November 2015, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Sutton Kersh, and on 6 November 2015, 
when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of John Francis for the consideration noted in the table below. The London business 
unit acquired five businesses as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand in certain under-represented geographical areas for a total 
consideration of £23.0 million, the most significant of which was on 7 May 2015, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital 
of The Greene Corporation Limited and five subsidiary companies for the consideration noted below. In accordance with the strategy to increase 
the Group’s commercial footprint and non-cyclical revenue streams, the B2B business unit also acquired four businesses for a total consideration 
of £15.0 million, the most significant of which was on 10 March 2015, when the Group acquired the trade and assets of Edward Symmons Group 
for the consideration noted below.
Greene & Co
£’000
ES Group
£’000
John Francis
£’000
Sutton Kersh
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
Intangible assets 5,110 4,843 231 635 9,451 20,270
Property, plant and equipment 1,132 204 96 172 125 1,729
Trade and other receivables 4,021 — 444 647 2,640 7,752
Cash at bank — — 985 1,237 3,212 5,434
Trade and other payables (3,791) — (659) (730) (2,894) (8,074)
Corporation tax (310) — (171) (186) (701) (1,368)
Deferred tax (1,022) — (63) (127) (1,271) (2,483)
Provisions (94) — — — — (94)
Net assets 5,046 5,047 863 1,648 10,562 23,166
Goodwill 11,214 5,143 4,162 3,002 29,609 53,130
Consideration 16,260 10,190 5,025 4,650 40,171 76,296
Settled by:
Initial consideration 16,260 4,239 4,850 4,500 38,460 68,309
Deferred consideration — 5,951 175 150 1,711 7,987
16,260 10,190 5,025 4,650 40,171 76,296
Cash paid 16,260 4,239 4,850 4,500 38,460 68,309
Cash at bank — — (985) (1,237) (3,212) (5,434)
Net cash flow arising from acquisitions 16,260 4,239 3,865 3,263 35,248 62,875
Revenue post-acquisition 8,372 16,425 833 774 11,324 37,728
Profit post-acquisition 1,141 2,705 197 181 3,620 7,844
Proforma revenue to 31 December 2015 12,445 20,336 4,521 4,502 25,586 67,390
Proforma profit to 31 December 2015 1,542 3,016 595 762 6,884 12,799
The acquired receivables for all acquired businesses are all current and their fair value is not materially different. There are no contractual cash 
flows that are not expected to be collected. The goodwill recognised by the Group upon acquisition has no impact on tax deductions. No other 
contingent liabilities, not included in the net assets above, have been identified on these acquisitions. 
The goodwill of £53.1 million arises from a number of factors including expected synergies, including cost reductions from purchasing and 
processing efficiencies, and unrecognised assets such as the assembled workforces.
The deferred consideration noted above is payable over a period of up to six years as fixed payments at specified times in line with the 
purchase agreements. In addition, contingent consideration arrangements arising on four of the acquisitions made during the year require 
the Group to pay in cash a potential undiscounted maximum aggregate amount of £6.9 million.
Each of these contingent consideration arrangements require the vendors to remain in employment and as such have been treated as a 
post-combination employment expense, excluded from consideration noted above, and are being accrued over the relevant periods of one 
to three years specific to each of the agreements. £2.3 million of this contingent consideration is also subject to performance conditions being 
satisfied. These are target EBITDA levels which must be achieved in order to realise the full payment, with a reduced payment made if targets 
are not fully met. The accrual has been made on the assumption that each target will be fully met and the £2.3 million will be payable over the 
earn-out period. Accruals for contingent consideration will be reviewed at each period end as future earn-out assumptions are revisited and 
any credits to the income statement in respect of downward revisions to estimates will be treated in the same way.
The costs of these acquisitions amounted to £1.1 million (2014: £0.8 million) and have been written off to profit and loss. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 115
30. Acquisitions during the prior year
During the prior year the Group acquired 36 businesses. The total consideration paid was £48.9 million and goodwill recognised was 
£38.7 million. The proforma revenue and EBITDA generated by these businesses in 2014 was £31.0 million and £9.5 million respectively.
31. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows:
2015 2014
Property 
£’000 
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment 
£’000 
Property 
£’000 
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment 
£’000 
Within one year 24,432 14,218 21,444 13,621
Later than one year and less than five years 51,723 22,717 46,654 16,706
After five years 47,292 2 24,001 —
123,447 36,937 92,099 30,327
At 31 December 2015, the Group had sub-leased a number of surplus premises and was entitled to receive rents under non-cancellable 
leases as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Sub-leases
Within one year 528 823
Later than one year and less than five years 769 842
After five years 205 142
1,502 1,807
32. Client monies
At 31 December 2015, client monies held by subsidiaries in approved bank and building society accounts amounted to £257,454,000 
(2014: £315,389,000). Neither the cash asset nor any corresponding obligation has been recognised by the Group.
33. Financial instruments
Financial instruments by category
31 December 2015
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Available 
for sale
£’000
Total
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets — 57,760 57,760
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 102,415 — 102,415
Cash and cash equivalents 24,336 — 24,336
126,751 57,760 184,511
31 December 2015
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at
fair value through
profit and loss
£’000
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) — 199,128 199,128
Finance lease liabilities — 10,120 10,120
Put options 2,700 — 2,700
Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities — 96,627 96,627
2,700 305,875 308,575 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 116
Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Financial instruments continued
Financial instruments by category continued
31 December 2014
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Available
for sale
£’000
Total
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets — 33,290 33,290
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 80,824 — 80,824
Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 — 28,583
109,407 33,290 142,697
31 December 2014
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at
fair value through
profit and loss
£’000
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) — 119,387 119,387
Finance lease liabilities — 12,323 12,323
Put options 2,560 — 2,560
Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities — 83,127 83,127
2,560 214,837 217,397
34. Financial risk management
Financial risk factors
The Group is exposed through its operations to one or more of the following financial risks: 
•
cash flow and fair value interest rate risk;
•
liquidity risk;
•
counterparty credit risk; and
•
price risk.
The policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the chief financial officer. Certain risks are managed 
centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre. The policy for each of the above risks is 
described in more detail below. 
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate 
risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The interest profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Floating rate assets 21,246 16,578
Fixed rate assets 3,090 12,005
Interest-free assets 160,175 114,114
Total financial assets 184,511 142,697
Floating rate liabilities 198,128 118,387
Fixed rate liabilities 10,120 12,323
Interest-free liabilities 100,327 86,687
Total financial liabilities 308,575 217,397
The average rate at which the fixed rate liabilities were fixed in 2015 was 5.53% (2014: 3.59%) and the average period for which the 
liabilities were fixed was 365 days (2014: 365 days). 
There is no material difference between the book and the fair values of the financial assets and liabilities. 
The interest payable on the revolving credit facility is at variable rates. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 117
34. Financial risk management continued
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk continued
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s liabilities secured on a floating basis which 
are managed centrally. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the portion of 
liabilities exposed to the floating rates. 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Increase in basis points 100 100
Effect on profit before tax (£’000) (2,000) (1,200)
Decrease in basis points (50) (50)
Effect on profit before tax (£’000) 1,000 600
Liquidity risk 
The liquidity risk of each Group entity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function which monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s 
liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn 
committed borrowing facilities. 
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations and acquisition strategy. Acquisitions are carefully 
selected with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods as applied as part of the investment appraisal 
process. The Group is also cash generative as demonstrated by the cash from operations. The requirement to pay creditors is managed 
through future cash generation and, if required, revolving credit facility. 
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by daily cash reporting. This reporting considers maturity of both its financial investments 
and financial assets (e.g. trade receivables and other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s objective is to 
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility for potential acquisitions. 
All surplus cash held by the operating entities is transferred to Group treasury and managed centrally to maximise the returns on deposits 
through economies of scale. The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Group’s forecast cash requirements. 
The Group maintains an overdraft facility with a major banking corporation to manage any unexpected short term cash shortfalls. 
The Group has a £250 million revolving credit facility which incurs interest payments on defined one, three or six month periods. 
The Group’s discounted financial liabilities at the year end were as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables 13,261 13,875
Other financial liabilities 2,700 2,560
Deferred consideration 7,987 5,103
Borrowings 199,128 119,387
Finance lease liabilities 10,120 12,323
Accruals and other payables 75,379 64,149
308,575 217,397
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet 
date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
In less than one year 299,018 125,678
In more than one year but not more than two years 2,599 33,073
In more than two years but less than three years 4,991 57,303
In more than three years but not more than four years 967 1,991
In more than four years but less than five years — 980
Over five years 1,000 1,000
308,575 220,025 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 118
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk 
The Group’s financial assets at the year end were as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 24,336 28,583
Trade receivables 80,761 65,330
Amounts due from customers for contract work 2,241 1,251
Other receivables 19,413 14,243
126,751 109,407
As stated in note 18, trade and other receivables are current assets and expected to convert to cash over the next twelve months.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The Group is exposed to credit risk from credit sales. It is Group policy, 
implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of major new customers before entering contracts. The majority of customers use the Group’s 
services as part of a housing transaction and consequently the sales are paid from the proceeds of the house sale. The majority of the 
commercial customers and the major lenders, customers of the surveying and asset management businesses, are large financial institutions 
and as such the credit risk is not expected to be significant. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by 
the carrying value as at the balance sheet date. The following table presents a breakdown of the gross trade receivables between the three 
main types of customer:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Individual customers 28,525 26,888
Major lenders 13,381 9,985
Other commercial customers 41,979 32,622
83,885 69,495
The Group treasury function manages the Group’s cash balances and seeks to achieve reasonable rates of interest, but preservation of the capital 
is the overriding priority. A list of accepted deposit institutions is maintained and their credit ratings are kept under review. The following table 
presents a breakdown of cash at bank and short term deposits (the rest of ‘cash and cash equivalents’ is cash in hand):
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
A1 3,390 6,249
A2 5,986 6,225
A3 14,960 837
BA1 — 15,272
24,336 28,583
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as 
available-for-sale amounting to £57,760,000 (2014: £33,290,000). If the price used in the 2015 year-end valuation had decreased by 5% 
the carrying value of the investment and the unrealised gain recorded within the statement of comprehensive income would have reduced 
by £2.1 million. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 119
34. Financial risk management continued
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of debt (subject to certain restrictions under the term loan 
facility), adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
The Group defines capital as the total of equity shareholders’ funds and long term borrowings net of available cash balances:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Borrowings (note 21) 209,248 131,710
Cash and cash equivalents (note 19) (24,336) (28,583)
Net debt 184,912 103,127
Shareholders’ equity 544,476 531,378
Total capital 729,388 634,505
Gearing ratio 25% 16%
During the year, the Group has complied with any capital restrictions and covenant requirements in respect of leverage and interest cover 
ratios associated with the term loan facility.
Fair value estimation 
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined, in accordance 
with IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’, as follows:
•
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
•
inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly
(that is, derived from prices) (Level 2); and
•
inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2015:
Level 1 
 £’000
Level 2
 £’000
Level 3
 £’000
Total
 £’000
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets 42,856 14,455 449 57,760
Liabilities
Put options — — 2,700 2,700
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014:
Level 1 
 £’000
Level 2
 £’000
Level 3
 £’000
Total
 £’000
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets 33,165 — 125 33,290
Investment property — 13,235 — 13,235
Liabilities
Put options — — 2,560 2,560
There was a transfer of investment property into available-for-sale financial assets during the year arising from the loss of control of the investment 
property fund as planned (see note 16). There was a change in valuation technique from that applied at 31 December 2014 and whilst the 
fair value of the investment within the investment property fund has remained at Level 2, this is now based on receipt of a net asset valuation 
statement from the trustees on a quarterly basis. 
The fair value of the investment property fund at 31 December was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by CBRE Limited, 
independent valuers not connected with the Group. The valuation conforms to International Valuation Standards. The fair value was determined 
based on comparable market transactions on arm’s length terms and was based on the Market Rent valuation technique. 
Level 1 financial assets comprise quoted equity instruments in Zoopla Property Group plc (‘Zoopla shares’). Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 120
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Financial risk management continued
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) and valuation processes
The following changes were made in Level 3 instruments for the years under review:
2015 2014
Available-for-sale
financial assets
 £’000
Liabilities
 £’000
Available-for-sale
financial assets
 £’000
Liabilities 
 £’000
Opening balance at 1 January 125 2,560 42,877 4,955
Acquisitions 324 — 5,021 (780)
Disposals — — (17,786) —
Transfers from Level 3 to Level 1 — — (38,990) —
Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss — 140 (22) (1,615)
Gains and losses recognised in total comprehensive income — — 9,025 —
Closing balance at 31 December 449 2,700 125 2,560
As noted in note 20, the fair value of put options is undertaken using a discounted cash flow based on management’s expectation of performance 
of the underlying entities, consistent with operating plans approved. This method continues to be based on unobservable market data, and therefore 
there have been no changes in valuation techniques adopted in the year and no changes in fair value hierarchies in respect of these liabilities.
The Group’s finance department performs the valuations of financial instruments measured at fair value required for financial reporting 
purposes, including Level 3 fair values. This team reports directly to the CFO and Audit Committee.
The fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities approximates to their carrying value.
35. Related party transactions
Key management compensation is given in note 6(b). Other related party transactions are as follows:
Trading transactions 
Transaction amount Balance (owing)/owed
Related party relationship Transaction type
2015 
 £’000
2014 
 £’000
2015
 £’000
2014
 £’000
Joint venture Purchases by Group (2,567) (2,539) (192) (193)
Joint venture Rebate received/receivable 2,792 394 1,441 23
Joint venture Dividend received — 507 — —
Oaktree Capital Management Director’s fee paid 40 40 10 —
The joint venture rebate for 2015 reflects the rebate against both 2014 and 2015 purchases. The rebate accrued at 31 December 2014 
reflected agreed rebate positions in respect of 2014 purchases, with a further retrospective rebate in respect of 2014 purchases being agreed 
and settled during 2015. At 31 December 2015 the value accrued is in respect of 2015 purchases, following agreement with the joint venture 
prior to the year end.
The Company has not made any provision for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party debtors nor has any guarantee been given 
during 2015 regarding related party transactions.
36. Events after the reporting period
On 15 February 2016, Countrywide plc sold 8,659,302 ordinary shares in Zoopla Property Group plc (‘Zoopla’), representing 2.1% of 
Zoopla’s ordinary share capital, for a price of 220 pence per share. Following the disposal, the Group continues to hold 9,234,473 Zoopla 
ordinary shares, representing 2.2% of Zoopla’s ordinary shares. 
During the first few weeks of the year the Group has acquired two businesses and made a strategic investment amounting to £4.3 million. 
At the time of preparing these financial statements, management is in the process of assessing the impact of these acquisitions on the Group.
The Group debt facility, to which the Company is a party, has also been restructured in February 2016, resulting in an increase in the revolving 
credit facility from £250 million to £340 million and a £60 million accordion facility. For further details please refer to the Group financial 
review within the strategic report of the consolidated financial statements. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 121
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Countrywide plc
Report on the parent company financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Countrywide plc’s parent company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”):
•
give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s affairs
as at 31 December 2015;
•
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements
of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
•
the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015; and
•
the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs 
(UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
•
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial
statements; or
•
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course
of performing our audit; or
•
otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•
we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
•
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
•
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 122
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Countrywide plc continued
Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit continued
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An 
audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
•
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed;
•
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
by the directors; and
•
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements 
of Countrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Christopher Burns (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
25 February 2016 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 123
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015
Note
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Fixed assets
Investments 4 386,372 147,657
Current assets
Debtors 5 260,810 265,003
Cash at bank and in hand 3,369 6,028
264,179 271,031
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (200,180) (44,292)
Net current assets 63,999 226,739
Total assets less current liabilities 450,371 374,396
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 — (78,387)
Net assets 450,371 296,009
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 2,196 2,194
Share premium account 9 211,839 211,841
Treasury reserve 9 (2,241) (14,516)
Profit and loss account 9 238,577 96,490
Total shareholders’ funds 10 450,371 296,009
The notes on pages 124 to 127 form an integral part of the parent company (registration number: 08340090) financial statements.
These financial statements on pages 123 to 127 were approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
25 February 2016 Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 124
Notes to the Company financial statements
1. General information
and accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of
Countrywide plc (‘the Company’) are presented
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
They have been prepared on a going concern
basis under the historical cost convention
and in accordance with the Companies Act
2006 and applicable accounting standards
in the United Kingdom. The principal accounting
policies are set out below and have been
applied consistently throughout the year.
As permitted under section 408 of the Act 
the Company has elected not to present its 
own profit and loss account for the year. The 
profit for the financial year was £191,840,000 
(2014: loss of £8,176,000). The results of 
the parent company are disclosed in the 
reserves reconciliation in note 9.
The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption in FRS 101, and has not disclosed 
information required by the standard as the 
consolidated financial statements, in which 
the Company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 
‘Financial instruments: disclosures’.
The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption available under FRS 101 and not 
disclosed related party transactions with 
wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
(b) Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have
a reasonable expectation that the Company
has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in the
financial statements.
(c) Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are held at
historical cost less provision for impairment.
The carrying values of investments are
reviewed for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable.
(d) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year
presented comprises current and deferred
tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss
except to the extent that it relates to items
recognised directly in equity, in which case
it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on 
the taxable income for the year, using tax 
rates enacted or substantially enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for 
taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based 
on the expected manner or realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
the related tax benefit will be realised.
(e) Share-based payments
The cost of granting share options and other
share-based remuneration to employees and
directors is recognised through the profit and
loss account. These are equity settled and
therefore the fair value is measured at the
grant date. Where the share awards have
non-market related performance criteria the
Company has used the Binomial Lattice and
Black Scholes option valuation models to
establish the relevant fair values. Where the
share awards have a TSR market-related
performance criteria the Company has used
the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model
to establish the relevant fair values. The resulting
values are amortised through the income
statement over the vesting period of the
options and other grants. For awards with
non-market related criteria, the charge is
reversed if it appears probable that the
performance criteria will not be met.
The social security contributions payable in 
connection with the grant of the share options 
is considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a 
cash-settled transaction.
(f) Dividend income
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings
is recognised at the point the dividend has
been declared.
(g) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair
value, net of transaction costs incurred. Such
interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method, which ensures that any
interest expense over the period to repayment
is at a constant rate on the balance of the
liability carried in the balance sheet.
(h) Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s
shareholders is recognised as a liability in the
Company’s financial statements in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the
Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends
are recognised when paid.
(i) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the
issue of new shares are shown in share
premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases
the Company’s equity share capital (treasury
shares), the consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental costs, is
deducted from equity attributable to the
Company’s equity holders until the shares
are cancelled or reissued. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 125
2. Employee costs
The only employees of Countrywide plc are the executive and non-executive directors. Details of the employee costs associated with the 
directors are included in the directors’ remuneration report and summarised below.
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Wages and salaries 1,863 1,791
Share-based payments 2,086 4,453
Social security costs 270 247
Post-employment benefits – defined contribution and salary supplement 140 112
4,359 6,603
The information disclosed in the Group’s consolidated financial statements under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ is within note 27, providing 
further information regarding the Company’s equity-settled share-based payment arrangements.
3. Dividends
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
– final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 10.0 pence (net) per share
(2014: 6.0 pence (net) per share) 21,963 13,167
– interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 5.0 pence (net) per share
(2014: 5.0 pence (net) per share) 10,981 10,972
– special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of nil pence (net) per share (2014: 9.0 pence (net) per share) — 19,750
Total 32,944 43,889
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 10.0 pence (net) per share, amounting to an estimated total dividend of 
£22.0 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 27 April 2016. In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance 
sheet date’, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
4. Investments
2015
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 147,657
Increase in investment by exchange of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd debt for underlying investment in Countrywide Group plc 238,715
At 31 December 2015 386,372
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2015 and at 31 December 2015 —
Net book amount 386,372
In 2014, the Company owned directly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertaking, Countrywide 
Holdings, Ltd, a company registered in the Cayman Islands whose principal activity was that of investment holding company. Countrywide 
Holdings, Ltd was liquidated during October 2015 and the increase in investment has occurred by exchange of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd 
debt for underlying investment in Countrywide Group plc as part of the restructuring prior to liquidation of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd. 
At 31 December 2015, the Company owned directly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertaking, 
Countrywide Group plc, a company registered in the UK whose principal activity was that of investment holding company.
Interests in Group undertakings, held indirectly by the Company, are detailed within the Appendix of the consolidated financial statements, 
which form part of these financial statements. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 126
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
5. Debtors
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 257,202 261,699
Group relief receivable 2,432 1,896
Deferred tax asset 1,138 1,350
Prepayments and accrued income 36 58
Other debtors 2 —
260,810 265,003
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are unsecured and payable on demand. Interest is received at base rate plus 2.25% per annum.
6. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Trade creditors 14 —
Bank loans 200,000 40,000
Capitalised banking fees (1,872) —
Other creditors 2,038 4,292
200,180 44,292
7. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Bank loans — 80,000
Capitalised banking fees — (1,613)
— 78,387
On 6 February 2015 the Company entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to the term and revolving credit facility 
agreement, originally dated 20 March 2013, which is due to expire in March 2018. The facility is now a £250 million revolving credit facility 
(RCF), with no term loan elements, with any outstanding balance repayable in full on 20 March 2018. Interest is currently payable based on 
LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%. The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and the margin rate is reviewed twice a year (and can 
vary between 1.5% and 2.25%). The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge and leverage covenants and £80 million 
was drawn down during the year (see note 21 of the consolidated financial statements).
8. Called up share capital
Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each
Number £’000
At 1 January 2015 219,444,961 2,194
Share capital issued 196,873 2
At 31 December 2015 219,641,834 2,196
The Company acquired 1,465,000 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout January and February 2015. 
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £6,773,000. The shares were held as ‘treasury shares’ with those purchased in 2014. The 
Company then reissued all of these shares in March 2015 in respect of the IPO option vesting. All shares issued by the Company were fully 
paid. An additional 196,873 shares were issued at nominal value to complete the satisfaction of the IPO options crystallising in March 2015.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled or reissued. At the year end, 449,172 shares (2014: 225,151 shares), costing £2,241,000 (2014: £1,254,000), were held in relation 
to matching shares of the SIP scheme. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 127
9. Reserves
Called up
share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
account
£’000
Profit 
and loss
account
£’000
Treasury 
share reserve
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 31 December 2014 2,194 211,841 96,490 (14,516) 296,009
Profit for the year — — 191,840 — 191,840
Issue of shares in satisfaction of IPO options 2 (2) — — —
Share-based payment transactions — — 3,226 — 3,226
Purchase of treasury shares — — — (7,760) (7,760)
Utilisation of treasury shares in satisfaction of IPO options — — (20,035) 20,035 —
Dividends paid — — (32,944) — (32,944)
Balance at 31 December 2015 2,196 211,839 238,577 (2,241) 450,371
10. Reconciliation of movements in total shareholders’ funds
2015
£’000
2014 
£’000
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 191,840 (8,176)
Purchase of treasury shares (7,760) (14,290)
Dividends paid (32,944) (43,889)
Share-based payment transactions 3,226 11,364
Net increase/(decrease) in shareholders’ funds 154,362 (54,991)
Opening shareholders’ funds 296,009 351,000
Closing shareholders’ funds 450,371 296,009
For full details on dividends proposed since the year end refer to note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Auditor’s remuneration
The auditor’s remuneration for the audit of the Company is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Fees paid to the 
auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed in the Company’s financial statements because consolidated 
financial statements are prepared which disclose such fees.
12. Post balance sheet events
The Group debt facility, to which the Company is a party, has also been restructured in February 2016, resulting in an increase in the revolving 
credit facility from £250 million to £340 million and a £60 million accordion facility. For further details please refer to the Group financial 
review within the strategic report of the consolidated financial statements. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 128
Company name
Country 
of 
incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
CHK (Esher) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Cliftons International Limited UK 100% Indirect
Connell Wilson Limited UK 100% Indirect
Copleys of York Limited UK 100% Indirect
Cosec Management Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Conveyancing Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Corporate Property 
Services Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Dorset Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents (South) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents FS Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents 
Nominees Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Financial Services 
(South) Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Home Movers Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Mortgage Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide North Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Part Exchange 
Solutions Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Principal Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Property Auctions Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Property Care 
Solutions Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Relocation Solutions Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Repossession 
Solutions Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Residential Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Surveyors Limited UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide UK Limited UK 100% Indirect
CRL Company Directors Limited UK 100% Indirect
CRL Company Secretaries Limited UK 100% Indirect
Curtis and Bains Limited UK 100% Indirect
Dickinson Harrison Limited UK 100% Indirect
Duck & Hedges Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
Duck & Hedges Limited UK 100% Indirect
Edinburgh Property Letting Limited UK 100% Indirect
Elite Property (Berks) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Entwistle Green Limited UK 100% Indirect
Executive Property Services 
Residential Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Faron Sutaria & Company Limited UK 100% Indirect
Fitz-Gibbon Limited UK 100% Indirect
Ford Property Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Frank Innes Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Freeman Forman Letting Limited UK 100% Indirect
Freeman Forman Limited UK 100% Indirect
Fulfords Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Gascoigne Pees Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Gatlink Limited UK 100% Indirect
Geering & Colyer (Kent) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Company name
Country 
of 
incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Countrywide Group plc UK 100% Direct 
A3 Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Abbotts Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Accord Properties Limited UK 100% Indirect
Acornsrl Limited UK 100% Indirect
Advanced Lettings (Ashford) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Aeromind Limited UK 100% Indirect
AgencyPro Limited UK 100% Indirect
Alan de Maid Limited UK 100% Indirect
Alan Harvey Property Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Anderson Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
APW Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Cobham) Limited UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Esher) Limited UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Sunninghill) Limited UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Weybridge) Limited UK 100% Indirect
APW Management Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Ashton Burkinshaw (Franchising) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Ashton Burkinshaw Limited UK 100% Indirect
Associated Employers Limited UK 100% Indirect
Austin & Wyatt Limited UK 100% Indirect
Avon Property (Wilts) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Bairstow Eves Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Bairstow Eves Limited UK 100% Indirect
Baker Harris Saunders Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
Balanus Limited UK 100% Indirect
Barrys (Surrey) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Beresford Adams Limited UK 100% Indirect
Berry Bros & Legge Limited UK 100% Indirect
Blundells Property Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Bridgfords Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Bridgfords Limited UK 100% Indirect
Buckell & Ballard Limited UK 100% Indirect
Bullock and Lees (Christchurch) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Bureau Properties Limited UK 100% Indirect
CAG Overseas Investments Limited UK 100% Indirect
Capital Fine Homes Limited UK 100% Indirect
Capital Private Finance Limited UK 51% Indirect
Capital Private Wealth Limited UK 100% Indirect
Cardinal Mortgage Service Limited (The) UK 100% Indirect
Carol Whyte Property 
Management Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Carson & Company Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Castle Moat at Taunton Limited UK 100% Indirect
Cathedral Lettings and Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
CEA Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Chamberlains Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Chamberlains SGS Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Chappell & Matthews Limited UK 100% Indirect
Chattings Limited UK 100% Indirect
CHK (Cobham) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Appendix
Related undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2015 Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 129
Company name
Country 
of 
incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
JP & Brimelow (Lettings & Property 
Management) Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Kean Kennedy Limited. UK 100% Indirect
Kilroy Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
King & Chasemore Limited UK 100% Indirect
Knights of Bath Limited UK 100% Indirect
Knightsbridge Estate Agents and 
Valuers Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Labyrinth Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton (City) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton (N Ireland) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Group 
(Overseas) Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (Ireland) Ireland 100% Indirect
Lampons Residential Limited UK 100% Indirect
Land and New Homes Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Leasehold Legal Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Leasemanco Limited UK 100% Indirect
Let Lucas Rental Specialists Limited UK 100% Indirect
Let Verde Limited UK 100% Indirect
Letmore Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
Letmore Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Letmore Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lets – Cover Limited UK 100% Indirect
Letters of Distinction Limited UK 100% Indirect
Life and Easy Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lifestyle Management (York) Co. Limited UK 100% Indirect
Lighthouse Property Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
London & Country Property Auctions Limited UK 100% Indirect
Loyalstone Limited UK 100% Indirect
LS1 Limited UK 100% Indirect
Maitland Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mann & Co (Kent) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mann & Co. Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mann Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Executive Properties Limited UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings (Ayrshire) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings (Edinburgh) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings (Paisley) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Maintenance Limited UK 100% Indirect
Michael Rhodes Property 
Management Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Mid Cornwall Letting Limited UK 100% Indirect
Miller Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Milton Ashbury (Property Agents) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Modernmode Limited UK 100% Indirect
Morris Dibben Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Intelligence Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Next Limited UK 100% Indirect
Company name
Country 
of 
incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Gertingpet Limited UK 100% Indirect
Gilpro Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
GR2 Limited UK 100% Indirect
Greene & Co Maintenance Limited UK 100% Indirect
Griffiths & Charles Limited UK 100% Indirect
Grosvenor Private Clients Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Estates (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius 100% Indirect
Hamptons Estates Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Franchising Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons International 
(Hong Kong) Limited
Hong Kong 100% Indirect
Hamptons International (India) 
Private Limited
India 100% Indirect
Hamptons International Mortgages Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Professional Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Property Consultancy Limited Barbados 100% Indirect
Harecastle Limited UK 100% Indirect
Harvey Donaldson & Gibson Limited UK 100% Indirect
HCW Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
HCW Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
HCW Insurance Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Herring Baker Harris East Anglia Limited UK 100% Indirect
Herring Baker Harris Europe Limited UK 100% Indirect
Herring Baker Harris Nominees Limited UK 100% Indirect
Hetheringtons UK 100% Indirect
Hetheringtons Countrywide UK 100% Indirect
Hetheringtons Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Holland Mitchell Limited UK 100% Indirect
Holmes Pearman Limited UK 100% Indirect
Home From Home Limited UK 100% Indirect
Housemans Management Company Limited UK 100% Indirect
Housemans Management Secretarial Limited UK 100% Indirect
Howunalis Limited UK 100% Indirect
Howuncea UK 100% Indirect
Howunsay UK 100% Indirect
Hurst Independent Financial 
Services Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Ian Peat Property Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Ikon Consultancy Limited UK 100% Indirect
Interlet Property Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
IPCS Group Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Isite.UK.Com Limited UK 100% Indirect
J M Property Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
JK Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
John Curtis Lettings & Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
John Curtis Limited UK 100% Indirect
John D Wood & Co. (Residential 
& Agricultural) Limited
UK 100% Indirect
John D Wood & Co. Plc UK 100% Indirect
John Frances Limited UK 100% Indirect
John Francis (Wales) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Joustroute Limited UK 100% Indirect Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 130
Company name
Country 
of 
incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Sundale Properties Limited UK 100% Indirect
SurveyingPro.co.uk Limited UK 100% Indirect
Sutton Kersh & Sales Limited UK 100% Indirect
Tablesign Limited UK 100% Indirect
Taylors Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
The Butler Club Limited UK 100% Indirect
The Flat Managers Limited UK 100% Indirect
The Greene Corporation Limited UK 100% Indirect
The Letting Store Limited UK 100% Indirect
The London Residential Agency Limited UK 100% Indirect
The Property Sales & Rentals 
Company Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Thomas James Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Thomson & Moulton Limited UK 100% Indirect
Tingleys Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
TitleAbsolute Limited UK 100% Indirect
TLS Wilts. Limited UK 100% Indirect
TM Group (UK) Limited UK 33% Indirect
Town & County Residential Limited UK 100% Indirect
Tucker Gardner Residential Limited UK 100% Indirect
Umberman Limited UK 100% Indirect
United Surveyors Limited UK 100% Indirect
Vanet Property Asset Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Investment 1 (GP) LLP UK 50% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Investment 1 
Limited Partnership
UK 50% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Real Estate (GP) LLP UK 50% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Real Estate 
Limited Partnership
UK 50% Indirect
Waferprime Limited UK 100% Indirect
Wallhead Gray & Coates UK 100% Indirect
Watson Bull & Porter Limited UK 100% Indirect
Watts Regeneration Limited UK 100% Indirect
Westcountry Property Auctions Limited UK 100% Indirect
Wildabout Properties Limited UK 100% Indirect
Wilson Peacock Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Woods Block Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
WSB Property Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Wyse Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Young & Butt Limited UK 100% Indirect
Young Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Company name
Country 
of 
incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Mortgage Next Network Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Next Packaging Limited UK 100% Indirect
Mountford Limited UK 100% Indirect
Nest Lettings & Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
New Homes Mortgage Solutions Limited UK 100% Indirect
New Space (Derby) Limited UK 100% Indirect
New Space Margate Limited UK 100% Indirect
Ohmes Limited UK 100% Indirect
Palmer Snell Limited UK 100% Indirect
Pebble Property Management 
and Lettings Limited 
UK 100% Indirect
Personal Homefinders Limited UK 100% Indirect
Phillips Brown Limited UK 100% Indirect
PKL Group Limited UK 100% Indirect
PKL Limited UK 100% Indirect
PKL Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Plaza Letting Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Poolman Harlow Limited UK 100% Indirect
Portfolio Letting Agents 
& Consultants Limited.
UK 100% Indirect
Potteries Property Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
Preston Bennett Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Preston Bennett Limited UK 100% Indirect
Project Second JG Limited UK 100% Indirect
Property Management (North East) Limited UK 100% Indirect
Propertywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
PSP Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
R.A. Bennett & Partners Limited. UK 100% Indirect
Realty Property Solutions Limited UK 100% Indirect
Regal Lettings and Property 
Management Kent Limited
UK 100% Indirect
Relocation Solutions Countrywide Limited UK 100% Indirect
Rentons Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Resi Capital Investments Limited UK 100% Indirect
Resi Capital Limited UK 100% Indirect
Resi Capital Member Limited UK 100% Indirect
Richard Dolton Limited UK 100% Indirect
Richard Trowbridge Estate & Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
RPT Management Services Plc UK 100% Indirect
Russells Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Saville Home Management Limited UK 100% Indirect
Securemove Property Services 2005 Limited UK 100% Indirect
Securemove Property Services Limited UK 100% Indirect
ServPro Limited UK 100% Indirect
Slater Hogg & Howison Limited UK 100% Indirect
Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited UK 100% Indirect
Snape Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Spencers Estate Agents Limited UK 100% Indirect
Spencers Surveyors Limited UK 100% Indirect
Statehold Limited UK 100% Indirect
Stoberry Lettings Limited UK 100% Indirect
Stratton Creber Limited UK 100% Indirect
Appendix continued Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 131
Contacts
Chief executive officer
Alison Platt
Chief financial officer
Jim Clarke
Company secretary
Gareth Williams
Website
www.countrywide.co.uk
Registered office
County House 
Ground Floor 
100 New London Road 
Chelmsford 
Essex CM2 0RG
Registered in England
08340090
Corporate headquarters
Countrywide House
88–103 Caldecotte Lake Drive 
Caldecotte 
Milton Keynes MK7 8JT
Registrar
Capita Asset Services*
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
Corporate advisors
Independent auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Lloyds Bank plc 
HSBC Bank plc 
Abbey National Treasury Services plc 
Barclays Bank Plc 
AIB Group (UK) plc
Broker
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
Company information
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 24 March 2016
Record date for final dividend 29 March 2016
AGM 27 April 2016
Payment date for final dividend 5 May 2016
Interim results 28 July 2016
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 8 September 2016 
Record date for interim dividend 9 September 2016
Interim dividend paid 7 October 2016
*Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrar is Capita Asset Services. They will be pleased
to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividends.
Please notify them of your change of address or other personal
information. Their address details are above.
Capita Asset Services is a trading name of Capita Asset Services Limited.
Capita shareholder helpline:  0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence
per minute plus network extras) 
(Overseas: +44 02 8639 3399)
Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Share portal: www.capitashareportal.com
Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and 
facilities included electronic communications, account enquiries, 
amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions. Financial statements
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 132
Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements can be identified 
by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘may’, ‘will’ or ‘should’ or, 
in each case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not 
historical facts. They appear in a number of places throughout this report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current 
expectations concerning, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies, the industry 
in which we operate and potential acquisitions. We derive many of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, 
which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult 
to predict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. 
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to us on the date of this report. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that 
may or may not occur in the future. We caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that our 
actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, the development of the industry in which we operate and the effect of acquisitions 
on us may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. In addition, even if 
our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which we operate are consistent with the 
forward-looking statements contained in this report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in 
subsequent periods. Important factors that could cause those differences include, but are not limited to: 
•
a decline in the number of transactions, prices or commission levels in the UK residential property market, whether due to the impact
of macro-economic factors or otherwise;
•
increased or reduced competition in the industry in which we operate;
•
changes in, or our failure or inability to comply with, Government laws or regulations;
•
the loss of any of our important commercial relationships; and
•
any increase in our professional liabilities or any adverse development in the litigation or other disputes to which we are a party.
We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. We urge you 
to read the operating and financial review for a more complete discussion of the factors that could affect our future performance and the industry 
in which we operate. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events described in this report may not occur. 
We undertake no obligation, and do not expect, to publicly update or publicly revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on 
our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above and contained elsewhere in this report. Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 133
Awards 
The British Mortgage 
Awards 2015
The Times and The Sunday Times Awards 2015
The ESTAS 2015
Mortgage Strategy 
Awards 2015
The Negotiator Awards 2015
• 
Mortgage Strategy Awards  
– Winner
• 
The British Mortgage 
Awards 2015  – Winner
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% 
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 
100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, 
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product is 
bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
Countrywide plc commissioned 
photography: Baz Seal  
www.reporterpix.com
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.  C ou nt r y w id e p lc Annual Report 2015
Countrywide plc
Countrywide House 
88–103 Caldecotte Lake Drive 
Caldecotte 
Milton Keynes MK7 8JT
+44 (0)1908 961000 
investor@countrywide.co.uk 
www.countrywide.co.uk
