 The UK’s largest and 
most successful property 
services Group
COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Tremendous growth
in a challenging market
Countrywide is the UK’s leading property 
services group, including the largest 
estate agency and lettings network.
Through our unique combination of national 
scale and local reach, Countrywide aims to 
be the most trusted provider of integrated 
property services in the UK. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 01
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Total income (£m)
702.2
+20%
2013 584.8
13 14
Operating profit (£m)
84.9
+52%
2013 56.0
13 14
Highlights
Financial highlights
Operational highlights
• 
Strong financial result underpinned by market leadership in our core businesses 
and breadth of our Group offering (by geography and business line) 
• 
Continued diversification of the Group with circa 40% of profits generated from 
business streams not directly related to the housing transaction cycle
• 
Group adjusted EBITDA margin now at highest ever level of 17% (2013: 15%)
• 
Appropriate capital structure now in place to maximise future growth opportunities:
• 
net debt remains modest at £103.1 million (2013: £48.4 million); and
• 
access to additional funding if required (revised £250 million revolving credit 
facility agreed in February 2015)
• 
Final dividend proposed of 10.0 pence per share payable on 7 May 2015 (total 
dividend 24.0 pence, including special dividend of 9.0p per share) representing 
an increase of 200% on 2013
• 
The Board announces an extension to the existing share repurchase programme 
with plans to spend up to an additional £20 million, subject to market conditions
Visit our website:
www.countrywide.co.uk
2014 proved to be a progressive and successful 
year for Countrywide plc, marking our first full 
year as a public company and continuing our 
track record of delivering strong financial results.
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m)
 121.1
+40%
2013 86.6
13 14
Adjusted basic EPS
2
 (p)
36.7
+50%
2013 24.4
13 14
1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items, management fee, share-based payments 
and share of profits from joint venture, referred to hereafter as ‘EBITDA’.
2  Adjusted earnings is calculated on profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles 
and share-based payments (net of taxation impact).
Overview 
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Breadth of offering
06 Geographical reach
Strategic report 
08 Chief executive’s review
10 Our markets
12 Our business model
14 What sets us apart?
16 Strategy
18  Risk and risk management
20 Segmental review:
 20 Estate Agency
 22 London & Premier
 24 Lettings
 26 Financial Services
 28 Surveying Services
 30 Conveyancing Services
 32 Lambert Smith Hampton
34 Group financial review
38 Corporate responsibility
Corporate governance 
41 Letter from the chairman
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance statement 
46 Report of the Nomination Committee
48 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
54 Directors’ remuneration report
68 Directors’ report
71 Directors’ responsibilities statement
Financial statements 
73 Independent auditor’s report
77 Consolidated income statement
78 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
79 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
80 Consolidated balance sheet
81 Consolidated cash flow statement 
82 Notes to the financial statements
118 Independent auditor’s report
119 Company balance sheet
120 Notes to the Company financial statements
Shareholder information
123 Company information
124 Forward-looking statements
125 Awards OVERVIEW
02 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Our broad geographical 
reach and diversified 
operations enabled us 
to deliver income growth 
across all divisions.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
In my first term as chairman of the Group 
I am pleased to report record financial results 
from Countrywide plc in 2014 against the 
background of a sluggish UK housing market 
which emerged during the second half of 2014. 
Income grew by 20% to £702.2 million and 
adjusted EBITDA increased by 40% to reach 
£121.1 million. 
2014 was definitely a year of two halves: the 
first six months saw the UK housing market 
grow strongly compared to 2013, but demand 
declined in the second half primarily at the 
top end of the London market. However, 
the strategic acquisitions and developments 
we have made over the past six years, 
underpinning our broad geographical reach 
and diversified operations, enabled us to 
deliver income growth across all divisions.
Strategic investment continued throughout 
2014: we acquired 38 businesses at a cost 
of £48.9 million and invested £13.3 million 
of seed capital in a residential property fund 
aimed at the Private Rental Sector (PRS), 
which we have launched in conjunction 
with Hermes Investment Management, one 
of the UK’s leading property fund managers. 
Our fledgling investment in Zoopla Property 
Group from 2010 reaped rewards for our 
shareholders, by way of a subsequent return 
of cash when the Company floated on the 
London Stock Exchange in June 2014. 
Following partial disposal of our shareholding 
for proceeds of £20 million, which was returned 
to shareholders via a 9.0 pence per share 
special dividend, our residual investment 
was worth £33.2 million at the year end.
Return of capital and dividend policy
In July 2014 we announced that our ordinary 
dividend policy would target a return of 35% 
to 45% of the annual reported Group profits 
after tax but before amortisation. In addition, 
we declared that, in the absence of a major 
acquisition and assuming continued recovery 
in the residential housing market, the Board 
anticipated that starting in 2015 the combined 
value of the ordinary dividend and any 
supplemental return of cash would be between 
60% and 70% of reported Group profits after 
tax but before any amortisation, which would 
be further augmented by the realisation of 
value from our remaining Zoopla shareholding. 
Our stated intention was that supplemental 
return of cash would be by way of a special 
dividend or a share repurchase programme 
depending on prevailing market conditions 
and views of our shareholders. Accordingly, 
we returned the £20 million proceeds from 
the partial disposal of our Zoopla shareholding 
by paying a special dividend of 9.0 pence 
per share in September 2014 and then 
accelerated our capital return policy by 
commencing a share buyback programme 
in October 2014, purchasing 2.9 million 
shares at a cost of £13.3 million before 
the year end.
The Board announces an extension to the 
existing share repurchase programme with 
plans to spend up to an additional £20 million, 
subject to market conditions.
On the basis of our strong results, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share, giving a total 2014 dividend, 
including the special dividend, of 24.0 pence 
per share (2013: 8.0 pence per share). 
Subject to approval at the AGM to be held 
on 29 April 2015 the dividend will be paid 
on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 27 March 2015.
In summary
2014 has been a record year 
for Countrywide: 
• 
Strategic investment continued 
throughout 2014: acquiring 
38 businesses at a cost of 
£48.9 million and investing 
£13.3 million of seed capital 
in a residential property fund
• 
Total income increased by 
20% to £702.2 million and 
EBITDA increased by 40% 
to £121.1 million, reflected 
in an adjusted basic earnings  
per share of 36.7 pence
For more analysis on markets 
see page 10
Chairman’s statement ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 03
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
...the Group is fostering an 
environment of innovation 
and progress...
Professional indemnity provision
In 2012, the Group established an exceptional 
provision to cover the estimated cost of claims 
arising in our Surveying and Valuation division 
relating to surveys carried out in the years 
2004 to 2007. The second half of 2014 was 
always seen as a key period in assessing this 
issue as the six year primary statutory limitation 
period came to an end. It is disappointing 
to see that high levels of claims continue 
to be an issue across the industry.
We have performed a detailed review of the 
latest data and trends on professional indemnity 
and, consequently believe it is prudent to 
increase our provision which has resulted in 
an exceptional charge in the 2014 financial 
results of £15.2 million, consistent with the 
expected charge noted in our trading update 
on 22 January 2015. The principal reason 
behind this charge is an unexpected level 
of claims brought about under common law, 
outside of the primary statutory limitation 
period rather than under contract law, together 
with a slight deterioration of claims previously 
notified and an increase in the average loss 
per claim.
Board update 
I was delighted to welcome Alison Platt 
as chief executive officer from 1 September 
2014, at which point I assumed the role of 
non-executive chairman, ensuring continuity, 
and David Watson became deputy chairman 
and senior independent director. Alison brings 
a wealth of experience and renewed energy 
to the Board.
During 2014 we also welcomed Jane Lighting, 
Richard Adam and Rupert Gavin as independent 
non-executive directors, with Richard taking 
the role of chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. We also accepted the resignation 
of Sandra Turner who we thank for her support 
to the Board during our first year as a listed 
company. The process of refreshing the Board 
allowed for further evaluation of the balance 
of skills, experience, capabilities and diversity 
within our new appointments, ensuring that 
the Board has the complementary cumulative 
experience to provide effective leadership 
and strategic direction to the Group. 
Corporate governance
One of the Board’s responsibilities is ensuring 
that the Group applies good corporate 
governance to facilitate effective management 
of the Company. As the Company’s chairman 
I am pleased to note that the Group is fostering 
an environment of innovation and progress 
in a framework of strong governance and 
risk management. A detailed statement on 
corporate governance can be found in the 
Chairman’s governance introduction and 
the corporate governance statement.
Outlook
As noted in our January 2015 Trading Update, 
the slowdown in residential property market 
growth in the second half of the year, recent 
negative trends in mortgage approvals and 
potential uncertainty regarding the general 
election in May are likely to create some 
sluggishness in market trends over the first 
half of 2015. However, the resilience we 
derive from our broad-based business, our 
low leverage and our proven ability to deliver 
growth in a challenging market position us 
well to take advantage of sustainable growth 
in our Lettings and Commercial businesses 
and capitalise quickly on the upturn as the 
residential sales market recovers in the 
medium to long term. Notwithstanding the 
market challenges evident going into 2015, 
I am confident the Group is in a strong 
position to meet the Board’s expectations.
Our success this year would not have been 
possible without the passion and commitment 
of our outstanding employees. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank everyone across 
the Group for their contribution in making 
this a record breaking year for Countrywide.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
26 February 2015
For more details on our Board 
see pages 42 to 43 OVERVIEW
04 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Commercial property consultancy
With 26 offices and 861 employees, 
Lambert Smith Hampton is one of the largest 
commercial property consultancies in the UK 
and Ireland, working with investors, developers 
and occupiers in both the public and 
private sector.
Residential property fund
We have partnered with Hermes Investment 
Management to create the pre-eminent 
residential property fund. Established with an 
initial £95 million of seed equity, we are using 
our unique platform and presence to deliver 
strong and stable returns to Institutional 
Investors in the UK residential private 
rental sector. 
London & Premier
Created during 2013, the London & Premier 
division incorporates a number of key 
Countrywide brands including Hamptons 
International, John D Wood & Co. and 
Faron Sutaria.
Lettings
As the UK’s largest letting agent we have a 
network of over 400 branches throughout 
England, Scotland and Wales. We offer a vast 
range of services available for tenants and 
landlords and have over 2,000 applicants 
looking to rent or let a home register with 
us each week.
Auctions
As one of the country’s leading property 
auctioneers we sell residential, commercial, 
industrial, agricultural properties and land 
by auction in London, Manchester, Sheffield 
and Exeter.
Estate management
We offer an array of specialist property services 
to clients and their individual needs. With 
unrivalled market knowledge and a national 
footprint we strive to provide practical 
management solutions.
We cover all areas 
of the property market
Breadth of offering ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 05
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Land & New Homes
We are the UK’s largest land and new homes 
agency selling over 4,100 new home units in 
2014. We work with the UK’s leading developers 
to provide an end-to-end solution to enable the 
smooth running of their businesses.
Asset management
We manage the sale of over 5,000 residential 
properties on behalf of corporate clients, such 
as lenders, house builders, other corporate 
companies, probate, local authorities and 
housing associations. 
Financial Services
As the UK’s third largest mortgage distributor we 
arranged 1 in 20 of all mortgages arranged in 
the UK in 2014. Our mortgage consultants 
provide an advice and recommendation service 
on all aspects of mortgages available, buildings 
and contents insurance and personal protection 
for our customers and their families.
Surveying Services
We are one of the UK’s largest employers of 
residential surveyors and valuers in the UK and 
an appointed valuer to all major lenders. We have 
designed innovative tablet PC technology and 
surveying software, which has revolutionised our 
service offering, boosting productivity and client 
response times.
Estate Agency 
We are an award-winning estate agent with 
815 associated branches operating throughout 
the UK under 31 well known high street brands. 
Our network of estate agents helps more people 
move home than any other business in the UK. 
Conveyancing Services
We are one of the UK’s largest transactional 
conveyancers and work with some of the largest 
conveyancers in the UK. We create best practice 
policies and lead the industry on innovation, 
which has led to reduced processing times. OVERVIEW
06 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
We operate across the UK residential and commercial 
property market and focus on having the right brand in 
the right location to target customers across all price bands. 
Our 48 well-known brands range from local or national 
market presence to internationally recognised brands.
Our brands:
Student and Professional Lettings
Geographical reach ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 07
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
We agree a house 
sale every 
1.6 minutes*
We let a  
property every 
4 minutes*
We helped over 
120,000 
households move 
home in 2014
We sold  
£18.6 billion worth 
of property in 2014
We complete 150 
survey / valuations 
every hour*
We have the 3rd 
largest car fleet in 
the UK
We completed  
£10.3 billion worth of 
mortgages in 2014, which 
make us the largest single 
mortgage broker in the 
UK and the third largest 
UK mortgage distributor
Location of our brands
*  Based on our opening hours. 08 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 proved to be a progressive and 
successful year for Countrywide plc, marking 
our first full year as a public company and 
continuing our track record of delivering 
strong financial results.
As the chairman has already mentioned, the 
market for house sales during 2014 can be 
split into two distinct halves: a strong first half 
continued the recovery started in late 2013, 
indicating that total market volumes were on 
a trajectory back towards pre-2008 levels; 
a challenging latter half of 2014 highlighted 
the sensitivity of consumers to changes in 
the lending environment, concern about 
interest rate rises and uncertainty in fiscal 
changes impacting the cost of house moves.
The slowdown in house sales transactions 
was particularly acute in central London as 
the impact of consistently escalating prices 
over the last few years began to rebalance 
to a more sustainable level. By contrast to 
housing sales, 2014 was another strong 
year for the residential lettings market.
The breadth of our business, built over the 
last few years, has paid significant dividends 
despite a market that has housing transactions 
below the long term average. The continued 
strong growth in our private residential lettings 
business coupled with our wide geographic 
base has enabled us to deliver not only strong 
revenue growth but another year of margin 
improvement. The fact that circa 40% of our 
profit is now generated from non-cyclical 
activities which are not directly related to 
the residential transactions market is a strong 
endorsement of the progress made in our 
strategy to diversify revenues, and we believe 
there is significant scope to grow these 
non-cyclical businesses further. 
Investment in broadening the business 
continued in 2014 and saw significant 
investment in the residential lettings business, 
as well as Lambert Smith Hampton’s 
acquisition of BTW Shiells in Northern Ireland. 
The continued programme of growth in the 
Lettings business, which now accounts for 
circa 19% of total revenues, has enabled 
us to build a robust model for integrating 
acquired businesses, whilst generating strong 
recurring revenues. Our ability to achieve 
consistently improved margins through the 
adoption of improved back office processes 
has been particularly pleasing this year and 
further validates our business model.
During 2014 we continued to focus on 
finding innovative ways to combine our core 
capabilities and bring new propositions to 
the market. The best example of this was our 
residential property fund in partnership with 
Hermes Investment Management (‘Hermes’), 
one of the UK’ s leading property fund managers 
which from a standing start already has around 
£14 million of assets under management. 
The fund is focused on owning and managing 
residential properties across the country for 
the UK’s growing private rented sector and 
sees us combining Hermes’ ability to bring 
capital with our expertise in utilising our 
data and property management capability. 
The evolving market
The aspiration towards home ownership 
remains a core part of the UK consumer 
landscape, and the market is evolving 
to reflect the changing priorities of the 
generations. 2014 was another strong year 
for first time buyers entering the market, 
although the average age of those buyers 
crossed the 30 year old barrier for the first 
time. This dynamic is also evident in the 
growth of the private rented housing market 
in the UK. While the growth of the private 
rented sector has slowed in recent years, 
a product of better access to finance, it still 
seems likely that 100,000 more people (net) 
will become tenants in 2015. This rate 
of growth will continue to place upward 
pressure on rents for the foreseeable future. 
It is important to recognise that for many 
people, renting is now a choice, rather than 
a necessity, with a much improved selection 
of product available to them, together 
with the flexibility that renting offers over 
home ownership. 
Chief executive’s review
During 2014 we continued to focus 
on finding innovative ways to combine 
our core capabilities and bring new 
propositions to the market.
Alison Platt
Group chief executive officer
Access to credit also remains a key driver 
and the introduction of the Mortgage Market 
Review in April 2014 undoubtedly slowed 
demand in the housing sales market. Whilst 
the changes placed significant demand on 
the market, requiring considerable changes 
to the way a customer accesses mortgage 
credit, we welcome the change. We believe 
the underlying robustness of stress testing 
affordability and evidencing with customers, 
which supports the selection of the most 
appropriate choice of product and lender 
for them, underpins a strong and more 
secure future for the housing market going 
forward. Every one of our 600 plus mortgage 
consultants is trained and fully qualified 
to the FCA’s required standard and our 
commitment to a robust quality and compliance 
framework remains resolute.
Consumers remained sensitive to wider 
economic conditions in 2014 and sensitivity 
to potential rate rises coupled with worries 
about fiscal changes, was a feature of slowing 
demand in the second half. The changes to 
Stamp Duty and Land Tax in both Scotland, 
and then latterly England and Wales impacted 
sales more acutely at the high end of the 
market where the impact was punitive – slowing 
sales in London being a particular outcome.
Our customers
Our emphasis on best in class service provision, 
sector expertise and efforts on behalf of our 
customers as well as our approach to investing 
in our employees, were recognised again 
in 2014 with our external awards reaching 
record levels. We received the following 
awards during the period:
• 
 Lettings Agency of the Year – 
Countrywide (RESI Awards 2014); 
• 
 Best Large Chain (ESTAS 2014: Estate 
Agent Awards and Letting Agent Awards);
• 
 Large Lettings Agency of the Year 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014);
• 
 Property Management Company of the Year 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014);
• 
 Employer of the Year – Countrywide 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014); ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 09
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
  Channels to market
To optimise market share and maximise 
profitability while ensuring that our cost 
base remains flexible
• 
 National Estate Agency of the Year Gold 
Award (The Sunday Times Award 2014); and
• 
 Best Surveyor/Valuer – Panel Managers 
(Mortgage Strategy Awards 2014).
Our people
2014 was another strong year for the 
performance of Countrywide’s people. 
We invested in the creation of 1,400 jobs 
across our network and placed increased 
emphasis on bringing in young people 
starting their careers in the property sector. 
In our professional services businesses, 
we continued our commitment to training 
92 new surveyors, with ages ranging from 
24 to 55, who achieved a 93% qualification 
rate. Our conveyancing business took 34 
graduates into its academy who are due to 
take their assessments during 2015. The 
success of our Hamptons Academy proved 
the value of creating fast track careers for 
school leavers and graduates and we will 
seek to widen these initiatives across the 
network in coming years.
External partners
Throughout the year we remained focused on 
building strong relationships with our partners 
in the interests of our mutual customers. 
We remained resolutely focused on working 
with the leading banks and financial services 
brands in the UK to bring improved products 
and services to the market. 2014 marked a 
milestone, with HSBC choosing Countrywide 
as its first ever intermediary partner for 
mortgage distribution in the UK – further 
underlining the importance of our ability to offer 
ready access to skilled and qualified advisors.
On behalf of Britain’s top mortgage lenders, 
our 400 strong professional surveying team 
delivered over 300,000 valuations on homes 
across the UK, representing a substantial 
percentage of all valuations undertaken in 
the UK and our life and general insurance 
business, in partnership with AXA and 
Friends Life delivered insurance products 
to in excess of 150,000 customers for 
their personal protection needs.
Strategic opportunities
Throughout the year we have built on 
Countrywide’s position as the clear market 
leader in all of its core UK businesses and 
been successful in delivering the strategy 
set out at the time of the Company’s IPO. 
Of particular note is the significant progress 
we have made diversifying our revenue 
streams into more property activities that 
are independent of the housing transaction 
cycle and this trend remains a key tenet of 
our vision of how the business will continue 
to grow. Countrywide is already a highly 
integrated player, but there is a clear opportunity 
to expand further by fully leveraging the 
expertise and customer base of our substantial 
network of regional offices to offer our 
customers multiple services. 
We will also continue to grow our lettings 
business, both through property management 
and by increasing our investment in the 
private rented sector. I believe that these 
activities, together with the escalation of our 
commercial real estate activities, where there 
are also many opportunities to grow recurring 
revenue streams, position us well to achieve 
our aim of building a business that can 
perform well and deliver robust shareholder 
returns throughout the market cycle.
As well as delivering strong growth in a 
challenging market, we have launched the 
‘Building Our Future’ programme which is 
aimed at defining our ambitions for the future 
and establishing the ways in which we can 
become the stand out player in all of the 
markets and sectors in which we operate.
I look forward to leading the Group through 
the next chapter of growth for the benefit of 
our customers, employees and shareholders.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
26 February 2015
The Group’s strategy
1
2
3
4
  Our products and services
Designed to meet their expectations and 
optimising profitability for the Group
  Our people
The most dynamic, talented and 
professional people in the industry
  Our infrastructure
A reliable, economic and scalable 
infrastructure enabling delivery of shared 
services to support all Group businesses
Read more about our strategy 
see pages 16 to 17
We aim to help more people move 
home in the UK than any other 
business and will focus on growing 
profitable market share.
Strategic report
08 Chief executive’s review
10 Our markets
12 Our business model
14 What sets us apart?
16 Strategy
18  Risk and risk management
20 Segmental review:
 20 Estate Agency
 22 London & Premier
 24 Lettings
 26 Financial Services
 28 Surveying Services
 30 Conveyancing Services
 32 Lambert Smith Hampton
34 Group financial review
38 Corporate responsibility
This strategic report was approved by the 
Board of directors on 26 February 2015  
and signed on its behalf by:
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer 10 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our markets
UK housing transactions
Building on the momentum of the second half 
of 2013 the housing market was buoyant 
in the first few months of 2014. However, 
following the introduction of new mortgage 
application procedures, as part of the 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) the number 
of transactions started to decline as the 
deals took longer to complete. Furthermore, 
the number of properties on the market 
plunged, most notably in London, where 
a lack of new stock for sale placed upward 
pressure on house price. In the first few 
months of 2014, one in three properties 
in the capital went for more than the 
asking price. 
While the Land Registry reported that house 
prices rose 7% in the year, 2014 was also a 
year which saw the number of sales increase 
substantially, some 16% as at October 2014. 
However, Bank of England mortgage approvals 
for new homes reported a much lower 
rise year on year, only 5%, indicating an 
increasing proportion of cash only house 
purchases. Regionally, London suffered the 
most significant fall in growth in transactions 
followed by Scotland and the South East 
which are proportionally the largest regions. 
Countrywide’s regional footprint has 
benefited from the recovery outside of 
London as our branch network is weighted 
towards the South East, East Anglia, the 
North and South West; all of these regions 
have continued to grow in 2014.
Price bracket, rather than location has been 
the primary driver of transaction levels. Post 
downturn it was the highest value markets 
which bounced back most strongly. For the 
first time after the downturn, the latter half 
of 2013 and 2014 saw the number of sales 
in lower value markets grew faster than in 
higher value ones. With 94% (2013: 93%) 
of properties sold through Countrywide 
agents sold for less than £500,000, a 
continued recovery in lower value markets 
in 2015 will see transactions inch closer 
to pre-2008 levels. 
The stamp duty changes recently introduced 
benefit all purchasers paying between 
£125,000 and £937,500. While this is not 
necessarily a large amount in the context 
of the value of a purchase, stamp duty 
cannot be added to a mortgage, and therefore 
represents a cost which has to be found by 
the purchaser directly. While this will impact 
the £1 million plus market, the effect will 
not be significant for Countrywide as over 
99% of house exchanges arranged by us 
in 2014 were below this threshold.
Mortgage lending
The introduction of MMR in April served 
to place a degree of short term pressure 
on lender capacity and hence transaction 
numbers. It has also, however, had the 
effect of pushing borrowers in the direction 
of brokers. In the last three months, 62% 
of all mortgage applications were made 
through a broker, as borrowers increasingly 
sought professional advice on the best way 
of presenting themselves to a lender. For 
Countrywide, this presents an opportunity 
to offer other Group services to a growing 
pool of borrowers. Nevertheless, the 
protracted application process and stronger 
lending criteria contributed to a slowdown 
in mortgages for new homes. The remortgage 
market continued to grow throughout the 
first half of 2014 but fell back after the summer 
finishing 2% below 2013 levels. This 
background made business tougher for our 
Financial Services and Surveying divisions.
The private rented sector
While the downturn undoubtedly served as 
a catalyst for private rented sector growth, 
its expansion both pre and post-dates the 
downturn. Increased accessibility to finance 
for first time buyers will probably mean that 
official figures show that growth of the private 
rented sector slowed over the course of 
2014; affordability constraints will continue 
to bite for new buyers. With would-be first 
time buyers spending longer periods of time 
in the private rented sector, the structural 
growth of the sector looks set to continue 
into 2015.
Rental growth picked up in the second half 
of the year, rising from an average of 3.7% 
during the first six months, to 4.2% in the 
second, as the sales market showed signed 
of cooling. This growth in rents coincides 
with the continued growth of the rental sector, 
which in England is expanding by an average 
of 100,000 households annually. While the 
Buoyant growth in the first half of 2014 
tailed off in the second half
sector’s structural growth has slowed as the 
sales market has recovered, this growth looks 
set to underpin rents into 2015 and beyond. 
In England, the number of moves into or 
within the private rented sector has grown 
from 790,000 in 2003 to 1.4 million in 2013. 
Letting agents are responsible for the vast 
majority of these moves. We recognise that 
this sector presents a big opportunity for 
Countrywide to lead the way and we have 
purchased 100 lettings businesses over 
the past five years (29 in 2014) increasing 
our share of the market from 5.4 to 6.8%. 
This meant that in 2014, Countrywide let 
11% more properties than it did in 2013, 
a product of both increased activity in existing 
offices and new acquisitions. Even stripping 
out the effect of new acquisitions, the number 
of lets made by existing offices rose 6%.
Commercial property –  
the return of the regions
2014 was an outstanding year for the UK 
investment market, with around £60 billion 
of assets already known to have changed 
hands. However, for the first time since 
2010, the regions made up more than half 
total of volume. This reflects the resurgence 
of domestic institutions in the market, buoyed 
by improving economic sentiment outside 
the capital. Investment in the regions has 
been underpinned by improving activity 
in the occupier markets. Indeed, many of 
the UK’s key regional offices markets have 
recorded their best year of take-up since 
2007, reflecting expansion in headcounts 
and confidence to relocate. This has put 
dwindling Grade A supply under the 
spotlight, and is expected to push headline 
rental levels forward over the medium term. 
This positive momentum is highly pertinent 
to Lambert Smith Hampton. Improving activity 
in the regions among both investors and 
occupiers therefore bodes well for future 
prospects, given the firm’s unrivalled network 
of offices throughout the UK. In addition, 
the firm should gain from its recognised 
agency strength in the industrial and offices 
sectors, which are the main beneficiaries 
of the recent recovery among the core 
sectors. Prospects of returning development 
outside of London will also provide a wider 
opportunity for consultancy advice. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 11
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Outlook for 2015 and 2016
Uncertainty about the election, mansion 
tax and the pace of economic recovery 
will all dampen the prospects for the housing 
market in the first half of 2015. Some of this 
will be neutralised at the beginning of the 
year, however, as the reform of stamp duty 
provides an incentive to move sooner before 
price growth erodes the benefit of the tax 
cut. Further ahead we expect conditions 
to improve in 2016 as economic recovery 
becomes more established. While the 
prospect of interest rates remaining low 
until at least the autumn of 2015 has 
pulled mortgage rates down (making 
some affordability tests easier to pass), 
a Bank of England of credit conditions 
survey suggests lenders remain cautious. 
Impact on the Countrywide Group
Overall we expect house price and 
transactions growth to be fairly modest 
for the next twelve months. We are forecasting 
a modest rise in transactions in 2015, which 
from an overall market health and estate 
agency perspective is more important than 
house price growth. With first time buyers 
accounting for much of this growth, there 
is additional opportunity to generate value 
from the take up of other group services. 
Modest price growth, particularly in regions 
outside London, will also see the remortgage 
market grow, as the number of borrowers 
unable to obtain mortgage finance declines. 
As the UK’s largest mortgage broker, 
Countrywide is well placed to identify 
these new borrowers.
 
UK housing transactions
UK transactions
Proportion of total transactions (%)
Growth 2013/14 (%)
Countrywide transactions Regional growth
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
LondonE Anglia S East S West WalesW Mids E Mids Yorks &
Hum
N West N East Scotland
Proportion of Countrywide house sales
2013
(%)
2014
0.0
10.0
20.0
30.0
40.0
50.0
Under £125k £125k to 250k £250k to £500k £1m to 2m £500k to £1m£2m
Commercial investment
(£ billion)
0.0
10.0
20.0
30.0
40.0
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
London Rest of UK
Proportion of households renting privately
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2003
2002
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
(%)
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0 12 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
We create value from a scalable, diversified 
business with significant recurring revenues 
through our national scale and local reach
Your trusted 
property partner
Strategic partnerships Complementary products
Estate agency
Lettings
Mortgages and insurance
Conveyancing
Mortgage lending and distribution
Asset management
Surveying and valuation
Land and new homes development
National scale
People Insight Central support
Local expertise
Branches Brands Online
Moving more people than anyone else in the UK
Our customers Our business partners
Our business model ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 13
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Complementary products
Our business-to-consumer customers including vendors, purchasers 
and landlords access our complementary suite of services through 
our branches. We optimise revenue streams through appropriate 
cross-divisional referral of services. We underpin our products with 
a customer-focused approach to service
Strategic partnerships
Our business-to-business customers including financial institutions 
and national developers benefit from our scale and view our 
extensive network as an attractive route to market for their 
products. In return, we have access to exclusive deals and 
competitive rates, a mutually beneficial arrangement for all partners
Utilising our breadth of expertise for the benefit 
of our customers
Optimising our assets
Our people
We invest in talented and motivated teams 
who understand their local markets and the 
needs of our customers to ensure the 
delivery of high levels of customer service
Market insight and innovation
Access to and analysis of data leads to 
the development of products and services 
to meet our customers’ needs and provides 
a basis for commentary on the market
Centralised support services
Support services are centralised to reduce 
duplication and waste while improving 
standards of service and enabling us 
to deliver cost efficiencies through 
economies of scale
Branches
Our national branch network is the 
foundation of the Group’s operating 
model. We identify and target local 
markets to invest in with additional 
or enhanced branches
Brands
Through our multiple brand strategy we can 
focus on specific sectors of both regional 
and national housing markets and tailor 
products appropriately
Online
Our online presence through portals and 
our own website, www.propertywide.co.uk, 
ensures our clients have access to the 
latest properties and our mobile apps are 
popular with people on the move
Capitalising on our scale and diverse offering
What makes us different?
Our breadth of offering
pages 04 to 05
See our case studies within 
the segmental review
pages 20 to 33
Income 
£’m
 Estate Agency 210.5
 London and Premier 118.9
 Lettings 134.6
 Financial Services 73.7
 Lambert Smith Hampton 72.8
 Surveying Services 58.0
 Conveyancing Services 28.6
 Central services 5.2
1. Our breadth of offering and expertise
2. Our people and their commitment
3.  Our diversified revenue and profit base providing growth 
and resilience in challenging markets 14 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our scale and 
diverse offering 
makes us stronger
Our risk-mitigated business is diverse 
by geography and business line. We fully 
understand the importance of our local 
expertise, local brands and the local 
communities they serve. Whilst we are 
the UK’s largest property services group, 
we understand that big is not always best 
and so our aim is to be better than our 
peers, through our ability to outperform  
the market relying on our experience, 
capability, power and value.
• 
Broadening of our base to capitalise on 
our nationwide network and increasing 
our business volumes through high quality, 
value adding acquisitions. As part of our 
targeted acquisition programme, we invested 
a record £48.9 million in acquiring key 
businesses and opening new branches 
in strategic locations we identified, further 
increasing our footprint and creating 
significant value to our bottom line.
• 
Launching the UK’s pre-eminent residential 
property fund with Hermes Investment 
Management, with an initial seed equity 
of £95 million, giving investment capacity 
of well in excess of £100 million 
including debt.
Strong growth 
in a challenging market 
with diversified revenues 
from non-cyclical 
businesses
The diversified nature of our business and 
our market coverage outside of London, 
coupled with our acquisitions programme, 
puts us in a strong position to capitalise 
further on any future market recovery. 
40% of our profit is now generated from 
non-cyclical activities which are not 
directly related to the residential 
transactions market.
• 
Record profits in 2014 validate our 
strategy of building a diverse business 
by geography and business line. Our 
business divisions are independent of 
cycles and deliver intangible benefits 
to each other.
• 
Implementation of centralised support 
services to offer a quality, full service 
provision and create a continuous 
customer relationship by optimising 
value from each transaction.
Our multi-brand 
approach and nationwide 
representation is 
supported by scalable, 
diversified infrastructure 
and expertise designed 
to deliver complementary 
services to each of our 
customers that meet 
their property needs.
Description
Our progress in 2014
What sets us apart?
Multi-brand approach with an  
all-market nationwide representation ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 15
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Our innovation 
drives efficiency and 
growth in key markets
We are innovative and strive to deliver 
a consistent service whilst constantly 
improving and investing in the experience 
that we provide our customers and 
employees. Significant investment continues 
to be made in transforming our technology 
infrastructure through our partnership with 
CGI, including the implementation of common 
platforms and a centralised VoIP system.
• 
Launching of a unique property search 
platform called ‘Traveltime’ on our 
propertywide.co.uk and estate agency 
branded websites. ‘Traveltime’ enables 
people to find the property they want, 
by the time they’re prepared to commute. 
Searching by Traveltime is boosting the 
conversion rates from our Propertywide 
website by 300%.
• 
Introducing Launchpad. This market-leading 
tablet technology makes the process of 
bringing a property to market quicker and 
easier than ever before, putting the customer 
at the centre of the process. 
Our important 
relationships as a 
trusted property partner 
to all our customers
It is vital to recognise and acknowledge 
each and every customer as being an integral 
part of a true partnership by exhibiting a 
sustained sense of purpose and duty to 
them and their customers. Whilst we offer 
an unparalleled network of unique insight, 
resources, expertise, experience and support 
to assist customers, these are all combined 
with a dedication to making a real contribution 
to local communities throughout the UK.
• 
We consistently outperform the market, 
delivering more services and 
better options to ensure that we are 
the first choice for our customers. The 
strength of these partnerships has been 
demonstrated over the last twelve months 
with the retention of all of our existing 
contracts with key corporate clients, 
the winning of significant new contracts, 
such as our partnership with HSBC to sell 
mortgages in the UK intermediary market, 
and new valuations contracts with Barclays 
and Santander, which has ensured we finish 
the year as market leaders in the valuation 
and asset management markets.
Our exceptional people 
understand their local 
markets and the needs 
of their customers
People are the key to the future of our 
business and therefore will always be the 
most important aspect of our business. 
Our focus is on putting our employees 
first and recruiting and retaining the best 
talent. We continue to invest significantly 
in graduate and trainee schemes as well 
as apprenticeships across the Group to 
continue building our future and ensure 
we recruit the best people.
• 
Continuing to develop the needs of our 
existing people by addressing the themes 
they feel most passionate about. Utilising 
learning and development tools, such 
as i-learn, and launching a Group-wide 
employee recognition scheme.
• 
Continuing to improve engagement in our 
MyCountrywide Survey with employee 
engagement up to 71%, a 4% increase 
on 2013. 16 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
Transforming our business 
Three years ago the Countrywide Board set out its second three year 
‘Distribution Strategy’ covering the period 2012–2014. During the final 
quarter of 2014, the Board has commenced a strategic review which 
will drive objectives for the next five years.
During this period of development, we continue to report against 
the existing objectives as follows:
• 
A further 28 strategic Lettings acquisitions were completed 
during 2014, continuing to strengthen revenue resilience 
and geographic footprint
• 
Launch of residential investment property fund with Hermes 
Investment Management with initial seed equity of £95 million 
(comprising £20 million from the Group of which £13.3 million 
has been drawn)
• 
Surveying Services secured major contracts with Barclays 
and Santander, further strengthening its position in the market
Our channels to market Our products and services
Performance in 2014 Performance in 2014
• 
Continue targeted strategic acquisitions
• 
Further development of online solutions for Group products  
and services
We continue to build on our physical and online 
distribution capability in order to optimise market share.
Over the past six years we have invested significantly in lettings 
businesses through acquisitions and the new starts programme 
to build a scalable business with sustainable revenue streams. 
Other major acquisitions include Hamptons International (2010) 
and Lambert Smith Hampton (2013) as well as investment in the 
financial intermediary market.
• 
Continue to focus on appropriate referrals between divisions
• 
Further development of strategic partnerships aimed at specific 
markets or customer segmentation
We strive to provide customers with market-leading 
products and services designed to meet their expectations.
Tailoring our products and services to our customer base is key to 
meeting their needs. Where we identify opportunities in the market 
we invest and innovate to develop our product offering and provide 
complementary services to simplify the transactional process.
• 
Acquisition of BTW Shiells in June 2014 to further expand our 
commercial property offering
• 
Development of products with strategic partners aimed at specific 
market sectors, e.g. partnership with HSBC during the year to offer 
mortgages in the UK intermediary market
• 
Launch of our unique property search platform ‘Traveltime’ 
to facilitate customer searches and improve conversion rates
Branches (Estate Agency and Lettings) (number)
 1,372
+2%
2014 1,372
2013 1,344
Cross-sales (%)
 54
+0%
2014 54
2013 54
1 2
Going forward Going forward
Strategy ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 17
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Performance in 2014 Performance in 2014
Our people Our infrastructure
• 
Continue to address key themes arising from employee 
engagement surveys to further improve our people’s experience. 
Announcement of appointment of Group HR director to drive 
forward our people agenda
• 
Leverage existing successful practice in recruitment and induction 
training across the Group
We recruit, develop and retain the most dynamic, 
talented and professional people in the industry.
Our employees are our key resource. We are a people business 
and high levels of customer service are delivered by a motivated 
and talented team. Common to the industry we face high levels 
of staff turnover; reducing attrition levels will improve customer 
service levels and resultant profitability.
We run training programmes throughout the Group. The Lettings 
division has i-learn for their front office staff and AgencyPro is 
a market leading training and complaints handling system with 
City and Guilds accreditation. Through our talent management and 
leadership programme we are developing our future senior managers.
• 
Improved engagement in our My Countrywide employee survey, 
with engagement levels up to 71%, a 4% increase on 2013
• 
Successful completion of qualifications in surveying and conveyancing 
from our first graduate cohorts
• 
Roll-out of HR systems to wider Group, improving consistency 
of approach and visibility of management information
• 
Completion of IT transformation programme in partnership 
with CGI during the first half of 2015
• 
Implementation of Group-wide finance platform to improve 
visibility and opportunities for cost savings
We ensure our people have access to a reliable, 
economic and scalable infrastructure.
Since 2007 the Group has permanently removed £60 million 
in infrastructure costs. Further cost reductions will be achieved 
through investment in technology and shared services capability 
in order that the Group has a robust scalable infrastructure to 
support growth.
Underpinning this strategy is the significant task of transforming 
the Group’s IT Infrastructure, which evolved over the years through 
bolt-on acquisitions and local development. We are nearing 
completion of IT our transformation programme.
• 
Significant progress in our IT transformation programme following 
implementation of common platforms and VOIP telephony systems
• 
Mobile technology implemented in Estate Agency with the 
introduction of Launchpad, our tablet technology, improving 
customer service
• 
Completion of over 120 branch refurbishments by our centralised 
team, ensuring improved customer and employee experience 
through managed cost base
Employee turnover (%)
36
+0%
2014 36
2013 36
Fixed cost ratio (%)
63
+0%
2014 63
2013 63
3 4
Going forward Going forward 18 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
 Risk and impact Mitigation Commentary Change
The Group is exposed to a number of risks and uncertainties which could have a material 
impact on its long term development and performance and management of these risks is an 
integral part of the management of the Group. The table below sets out the principal risks faced 
by the Group and examples of relevant key controls and mitigating factors. The Board considers 
these to be the most significant risks faced by the Group. They do not comprise all the risks 
associated with the Group and they are not set out in any order of priority. 
The successful management of risk is essential to enable us to deliver on its strategic priorities. 
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the foundation of 
effective day-to-day management of risk is in the way we do business and the culture of our team. 
Our flat organisational structure ensures close involvement of senior management in all 
significant decisions.
 Risk and risk management
Market risk
The UK housing market is highly cyclical and 
historically has been central to the strength 
of the UK economy. Changes in volumes and 
price are immediately realised in the results 
of the business, within both the Estate Agency 
division and also sales of complementary 
services throughout other areas of the Group.
Increases in interest rates typically have 
a negative impact on the UK residential 
property market. 
We carry out continual high level reviews 
of our markets to ensure we understand the 
opportunities they offer and review our products 
and services diversity and differentiation as part 
of our distribution strategy. For example, we 
continue to strengthen the Lettings division 
which,by its nature, is more stable and 
counter-cyclical to the housing market. 
During 2014 we have continued to acquire 
accretive residential lettings businesses, 
a further commercial consultancy business 
and jointly established a residential 
property investment fund with Hermes. 
These developments continue to increase 
resilience of revenue streams and diversity  
of our offerings. An ongoing programme  
of acquisitions is planned for the  
forthcoming year.
Availability of mortgage financing
The parts of our business that do not relate to 
the prestige property market are particularly 
exposed to the level of mortgage approvals. 
The number of mortgage approvals can be 
affected by macro-economic factors; new 
regulatory requirements; and changes in 
lenders’ approval policies.
We continue to review trends in market 
volumes and determine whether actions such 
as cost base reduction measures are required.
The recent negative trend in mortgage 
approvals will impact transaction levels  
in the first half of 2015 which, together with 
the potential uncertainty over the outcome  
of the general election in May, is likely to 
create some sluggishness in market trends  
in the first half of 2015.
Loss of a major business partner or outsourcing partner
There are a number of important commercial 
relationships which affect more than one area 
of the business. Loss of key customers or 
contracts, or significant reduction in volumes 
combined with pressure on fees, would have a 
significant impact on our profitability. The 
failure of a significant supplier could impair our 
ability to operate effectively.
We centralised the team responsible for 
liaising with key customers and developing 
new contracts. The operating divisions  
carry out regular reviews with key customers.  
We carry out regular reviews with key suppliers 
and operate appropriate contingency measures 
in the event of supplier collapse.
We continue to benefit from our strong 
relationships with our corporate partners and 
we have retained, as well as won, a number 
of contracts with key clients. We have been 
selected by Santander as one of its formal 
valuation partners from 1 January 2015. This 
comes following our appointment earlier in 
2014 as a key business partner on valuations 
for Barclays.
IT infrastructure and information security
Dependence on efficient systems for 
operational performance and financial 
information would be impacted by significant 
failures or interruptions to IT services. 
In addition, data security is also essential 
to the secure processing, storage and 
transmission of routine personal, 
confidential and proprietary information,  
failure of which could lead to financial  
and reputational damage.
There has been significant continual investment 
to support operational expansion and as part  
of the planned transformation and maintenance 
of operational systems and infrastructure. Routine 
penetration testing is also conducted  
in respect of data security.
The transition of our IT infrastructure via 
outsourcing to CGI has continued at pace 
and in accordance with plan throughout 
2014 and into the first quarter of 2015. 
The Information Security Steering  
Committee has met regularly throughout 
the year in order to co-ordinate Information 
Security best practice and to ensure 
continuing accreditation within  
business-to-business operations.
Change in the year Increased risk Decreased risk No change ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 19
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 Risk and impact Mitigation Commentary Change
Countrywide plc Board of directors
Governance and Performance Board
Divisional Boards
Information Security 
Steering Committee
Group Risk & 
Compliance Committee
Directors and employees
(Includes sales, operations, finance, procurement, IT, HR, etc.)
Group Audit and Risk 
Committee
Group internal 
audit manager
Compliance officers and FS Internal 
Audit Committee
Group information 
security and risk manager
First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence
Professional indemnity
The previous downturn in the UK housing 
market and impact of sub-prime lending 
exposed the group to a higher level of 
professional insurance claims within the 
Surveying Services division.
Monitoring arrangements include operational 
controls implemented for review of surveyor 
outputs and targeted use of Automated Valuation 
Models in perceived higher risk cases, as well as 
maintenance of risk management arrangements. 
In respect of legacy issues, we continue to review 
the judgements and estimates underpinning 
the existing professional indemnity provision.
Our year-end review resulted in an exceptional 
charge of £15.2 million principally due to an 
unexpected level of claims brought about 
under common law outside of the primary 
statutory limitation period together with a slight 
deterioration of claims previously notified and 
an increase in the average loss per claim (in 
line with industry trends). We continue to 
monitor developments in claims reporting.
Financial misstatement and fraud risk
Financial misstatement may arise due to error or 
fraud, in the form of fraudulent financial reporting 
or misappropriation of assets. Reputational 
damage, and inappropriate decision making 
data availability to management, may arise from 
non-fraudulent misstatement in financial reports 
and financial loss to the Group may occur as a 
result of misappropriations.
Embedded financial controls, incorporating 
appropriate segregation of duties, operate within 
the businesses to ensure robust preventative  
and detective controls are in place. Independent 
financial reviews are undertaken within the 
operational divisions as an additional, high-level, 
detective control. These reviews are also 
supplemented by centralised monitoring of financial 
performance against budgets and operating targets.
Misappropriation of funds is mitigated by centralised 
treasury monitoring of all bank accounts, with 
embedded operational controls ensuring 
appropriate delegation of authority, restricted access 
to accounts and appropriate segregation of duties 
and mandated dual authorisation controls.
Whilst the profile of inaccurate financial 
reporting has been raised recently, we have 
continued to monitor embedded controls 
and independent management reviews 
across our divisions. We ensure that 
where best practice developments emerge 
these are shared within the Group and 
implementation plans are developed 
accordingly. In addition, we adopt 
recommendations arising from internal 
and external reviews.
Regulatory compliance
Failure to comply with legislation and 
regulatory requirements could result in 
reputational and financial damage, including 
withdrawal of authorisation/licences for the 
conduct of business streams. 
Expertise within the operational divisions is also 
supported by centralised legal and compliance 
teams who closely monitor existing business 
practices and any reform proposals. Employees 
receive appropriate training. Managers attend 
industry forums and government consultations. 
Robust complaints management systems are in 
place across all operating divisions.
The new FCA regime and Mortgage Market 
Review have been assimilated within the 
business in accordance with plans. We continue 
to monitor regulatory developments across 
our divisions and develop implementation 
plans accordingly and adopt recommendations 
arising from external reviews.
Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people
Our success depends on the services provided 
by, and experience of, our employees. There  
is also substantial competition for qualified 
employees in an industry characterised by 
high levels of employee turnover.
Remuneration policies are regularly reviewed to 
ensure employees are appropriately incentivised. 
Succession planning and development of key 
employees are also considered by the Board. 
Management reviews trends, including the 
views of leavers in exit interviews, and the views 
of employees which are expressed in our annual 
employee engagement surveys to develop action 
plans accordingly.
We have continued to strengthen our 
leadership and development programme, 
scrutiny of people-related KPIs and related 
action plans to address these. The second 
‘My Countrywide’ survey has been 
concluded during 2014, with a 69% 
response rate and a 4% increase in 
employee engagement levels (to 71%). 20 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
210.5
+9%
2014 210.5
2013 193.0
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
28.2
+75%
2014 28.2
2013 16.1
13 14
House exchanges (number)
66,022
+1 1%
2014 66,022
2013 59,471
13 14
The Estate Agency division is the UK’s largest by market 
share, operating 31 brands across 815 branches. As well 
as providing estate agency services it plays a key role in 
driving revenue of other Countrywide divisions.
Operating review
The Estate Agency division saw a 9% increase 
in income to £210 million. With a relatively 
small increase in operating costs, the 
additional income contributed to growth 
in EBITDA of 75%. 
2014 saw continued growth in the UK housing 
market with market transactions at their 
highest level for seven years. The second half 
of the year did see a slowdown in growth 
with uncertainty caused by the Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR), as well as the timing 
and scale of interest rate rises. Estate Agency 
house exchange volumes increased by 
11% over the previous year, comprising 
20% growth in the first half of the year 
and 4% in the second half of 2014.
Transactional growth was seen across the 
country with all our regional businesses 
experiencing a higher level of exchange 
volumes than the previous year. Growth rates 
were marginally higher in the South (11%) 
than the North (9%). Despite increased 
competition in the Estate Agency market, 
the division saw a modest increase in the 
average fee generated per exchange.
Performance on cross-sales into other 
divisions remained strong in 2014 with 
penetration rates into our Conveyancing, 
Financial Services and Surveying divisions 
remaining stable in 2014. The most significant 
area of growth came in our high value 
conveyancing service where instruction 
levels increased 63% versus the prior year. 
We achieved further consolidation of our 
back office functions during the year with 
administrative support for our Auctions and 
Land & New Homes business moving to our 
National Sales Support Centre in Cheadle, 
Greater Manchester. This continues to provide 
the division with significant cost savings 
compared to our previous model of branch 
and regionally based administration, 
as well as improvements in the quality 
and consistency of processing. This has 
ultimately provided a better service for 
our customers. The centre also assisted 
our branch network in a number of customer 
support functions. This has included handling 
call overflow from our branches, dealing 
with complaints, handling leads from portals 
and assisting in the progression of sales 
through to exchange. As well as supporting 
the Estate Agency division the centre also 
generated a number of appointments for 
our branch-based mortgage consultants. 
Estate Agency
Highlights
• 
EBITDA growth 75%
• 
9% income growth
• 
8% increase in average house prices
• 
Continued growth in our Land & New Homes business 
• 
Awarded Sunday Times Best National Estate Agency of the Year
Segmental review ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 21
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Focus on:
Barry Lee
With the increase in divisional exchange 
volumes of 11%, the greatest area of 
investment was in our employees, with 
average headcount increasing by 5%. The 
efficiencies offered by the National Sales 
Support Centre are illustrated by headcount 
in our branch network increasing by only 
3%. Careful management of our cost base 
ensured that 69% of the additional income 
generated by the division dropped through 
to bottom line profit. 
Branch numbers in the division increased 
by eleven in the year to 815. This included 
new office openings, new co-located 
offices with our Lettings colleagues and the 
successful integration post-acquisition of 
Tucker Gardner in Cambridgeshire and 
Lampons in East Sussex. Tucker Gardner 
in particular has enjoyed a successful first 
year of operation, exceeding sales and 
profits targets set as well as achieving 
some of the best sales rates per office 
seen across the division.
Market challenges
The improving transaction volumes bring 
new entrants to the market and increased 
competition for new instructions and pressure 
on fees, particularly from low-cost ‘no frills’ 
agents. The Estate Agency division did, 
however, experience improving fee rates 
on new instructions in the second half 
of the year as the market began to tighten. 
The rate at which the pipeline of sales agreed 
converted to income also slowed in the year, 
as larger, more complex chains of housing 
transactions became more difficult to 
convert in the year. 
The stamp duty changes announced 
during the Government’s autumn budget 
statement will mean that less stamp duty 
will be paid by purchasers on the vast 
majority of house sales handled within 
the Estate Agency division.
The year also saw the emergence of a 
new funded-by-agents property portal, 
OnTheMarket.com. Inclusion on this 
portal requires the agent to move away 
from either Rightmove or Zoopla, 
something Countrywide believes is not 
in the best interest of the vendor. 
Land & New Homes
Income in our Land & New Homes division 
increased 8% in 2014. With improved market 
conditions the division has seen a shift 
towards SME developers and away from 
the larger PLCs who sell more plots ahead 
of build and without assistance from estate 
agents during periods of higher demand. 
With the lack of housing still an issue in the 
UK, 2014 was the third year of substantial 
investment in this area of the business with 
headcount growing 9% in the year and 
further increases planned in 2015. 
Asset management 
Despite repossession volumes estimated to 
fall by 25% in 2014, our Asset Management 
business, Countrywide Corporate Property 
Services (CCPS), saw an increase in the 
number of repossession mandates it 
received in the year. During the year the 
division managed to secure a significant 
new contract with Lloyds Banking Group 
as well as retaining contracts with RBS and 
Santander. In Q3 2014 CCPS handled one 
in every five of all repossessions in the market. 
Barry Lee previously worked 
in retail, but decided to move into 
Estate Agency with an office-based 
job with more reasonable hours. 
Barry joined Taylors and worked his way 
up to branch manager in two years, and 
then to senior branch manager. After his 
success in estate agency, Barry decided 
to learn the financial services side of 
the business and became a mortgage 
consultant. Barry enjoyed the financial 
aspect of the role, broadening his skill 
set and adding yet another feather to 
his hat. 
Outside of work, Barry is involved in 
youth projects and training including 
life skills, interview techniques and 
motivational speaking. In February 2014, 
Barry was asked to become a trainer 
for Countrywide. Barry jumped into 
the role, using his troubleshooting 
skills to identify development issues 
and provide strategies or solutions. 
A great example of Barry’s success is 
when he helped a branch in Edgware 
double their number of houses taken 
on. Barry’s experience of both the 
Estate Agency and Financial Services 
businesses enable him to empathise 
with the colleagues he trains. We’re 
delighted that Barry’s enjoying his role 
as a trainer and whatever he decides 
to do next – we’re sure he’ll be great 
at that too. 22 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
118.8
+3%
2014 118.8
2013 115.6
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
23.3
-4%
2014 23.3
2013 24.2
13 14
House exchanges (number)
6,383
+1%
2014 6,383
2013 6,338
13 14
Operating review
In spite of overall revenue growth and 
geographic expansion, 2014 was a 
challenging year for London & Premier. 
The strong first half of the year, was followed 
by a slower second half as segments of the 
London property market cooled in particular 
at the top end of the prime central London 
market. Whilst the surprise December stamp 
duty changes led to a flurry of exchanges 
on the day of announcement, this did not 
inject enough momentum into the end of 
the year to offset the general slower market 
sentiment of the second half of 2014.
Annual revenues across the division were 
3% higher than in 2013 supported by the 
acquisition programme undertaken during 
the year. Preston Bennett, Humphreys Skitt 
and the lettings portfolio of Humberts were 
all acquired in 2014, alongside several 
smaller lettings portfolios. These acquisitions 
performed well and were successfully 
integrated into the division and Group. 
Removing the impact of the acquisitions, 
like-for-like estate agency exchanges were 
virtually identical year on year.
As a consequence of a slower prime central 
London market and relative growth in our 
country and outer London branches (where 
the margins are lower), overall EBITDA margin 
dropped from 21% to 20%. It remains our 
medium term aim to improve this and take 
it beyond 25%.
The slowing of the London prime markets 
also impacted our average fee, contributing 
to the overall reduction in estate agency 
income streams of 3%. This decline in revenue 
was in spite of the expansion of the division’s 
geographic footprint. This expansion saw 
us move into the markets of Stanmore 
(Preston Bennett), Greenwich and Blackheath 
(Humphreys Skitt) via acquisitions and new 
branch openings in Salisbury, Sherborne 
and Taunton (supported by the Humberts 
lettings acquisition). With the exception 
of Preston Bennett, all of these new and 
acquired branches were branded under 
the Hamptons International banner. During 
2014 our average fee dropped from 1.41% 
in 2013 to 1.37% due to the increased 
weighting of transactions outside London.
Our transactional volumes outside of prime 
central London increased by 5% year on year 
which, while diluting out the cash average 
fee from £12,689 to £12,203, also provided 
valuable protection to our revenues in 2014 
following the decline of central London sales. 
Average house prices for the division in both 
years remained flat at just under £900,000. 
The reality of these statistics is that we saw 
transactional and house price growth in outer 
London and our country markets, with the 
opposite being true in the capital. Many 
London homeowners elected to ‘cash in’ 
on their home and move out of the capital 
to acquire a larger property, accepting a 
longer commute at the same time.
Highlights
• 
Successful acquisition of Preston Bennett, Humphreys Skitt and the Humberts 
lettings portfolio
• 
Lettings revenue growth up 8% on 2013
• 
Largest Land & New Homes pipeline ever
• 
Sales revenue growth (excluding prime London area) of 9%
London & Premier aims to be the foremost  
agency in its markets providing an unrivalled  
customer service.
London & Premier
Segmental review continued Focus on:
Pooja Kandola
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 23
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Lettings and management revenues grew 
by 6% due to Hamptons International’s 
branch expansion, a robust lettings market 
in London and an ever growing portfolio 
of managed units. Further expansion of our 
lettings business into the residential agency 
branch network remains an ongoing priority. 
London & Premier’s New Homes division 
was bolstered significantly by the acquisition 
of Preston Bennett in Stanmore, a business 
with a considerable new homes operation 
and pipeline. Combining the Hamptons 
International and Preston Bennett offerings 
in this area across north London and beyond 
remains one of the most exciting opportunities 
in 2015.
Our International department grew further 
with strategic partnerships now established 
in the USA, the Caribbean, France, Italy, Spain, 
Portugal, Cyprus, Switzerland, South Africa, 
Dubai and Oman. We represent in excess of 
100,000 international listings and consistently 
identify international opportunities from our 
network of UK offices. 2015 will see the 
extension of the Hamptons ‘International’ 
model into other Group brands starting 
with John D Wood and Co. The weakening 
Euro is likely to create increased interest 
from British second home buyers this year.
During the year we decided to dispose of 
our Sotheby’s International Realty franchise 
business as part of a strategic refocus on 
our wholly owned branded estate. Looking 
forward to 2015, we expect to see a quiet 
start to the year with the general election 
looming large on the horizon in May. 
History tells us that activity levels running 
up to general elections of the past have 
cooled, to be followed by an increase in 
market transactions for the rest of the year. 
Pooja Kandola always knew that she 
wanted to practice law, but she had 
learnt that law firms appreciate 
graduates who study a more diverse 
degree as they bring a different 
perspective to the firm. With this 
in mind Pooja graduated from the 
University of Westminster with a 
degree in criminology and psychology 
in July 2007.
Pooja then went on to complete a graduate 
diploma in law at the College of Law and 
in July 2010 she completed a legal practice 
course. Pooja joined Hamptons International 
in October 2010 as maternity cover in a 
combined legal and customer care role. 
Pooja wanted to gain more experience 
and when the legal manager went on 
maternity leave in January 2011, Pooja 
was given the opportunity to cover that 
role. Pooja enjoyed the challenge and 
Hamptons International had just been 
acquired by Countrywide, so she was 
delighted to have support from the 
Countrywide Legal team too. 
Gareth Williams, head of legal and Group 
company secretary, alongside Hamptons 
International HR, encouraged Pooja to 
research the Solicitors Regulation Authority 
to discover how we, as an organisation, 
could become a training establishment. 
Pooja investigated what the Company 
needed and what she as a trainee would 
be required to do. Pooja proposed a 
training plan, received sign off, and set 
up the training course to commence in 
September 2013. Another colleague has 
now also enrolled on this programme and 
will begin their journey later this year.
Pooja’s dedication to the whole Countrywide 
Group is impressive. As part of her training, 
Pooja has moved around the Group in 
six month placements, working for not 
only Hamptons International, but also for 
Countrywide Legal, Lambert Smith Hampton 
and Countrywide Conveyancing Services, 
when she relocated to Cardiff. Pooja will 
complete her last training placement 
with an external law firm to give her 
experience in commercial litigation. 
At the end of September 2015, Pooja will 
have completed her training, becoming 
a fully qualified solicitor. Pooja hopes to 
stay at Countrywide and we hope she 
does too. Her familiarity with the Group 
and the skills and experience she has 
gained in her time here really add value 
to the Countrywide Group.  24 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
134.6
+20%
2014 134.6
2013 112.5
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
39.3
+37%
2014 39.3
2013 28.6
13 14
Retail properties under 
management (number)
65,334
+25%
2014 65,334
2013 52,181
13 14
Summary and market
The Lettings market remained stable 
throughout 2014 with continued demand 
for renting with Countrywide registered 
490,000 applicants and agreed 49,000 lets, 
a record number for the business. Retail 
properties under management increased 
by 25% to 65,334 at the end of the year.
Although demand continued to grow, this 
was not matched by the growth of available 
properties in the market. Supply has been 
constrained by limited levels of new build 
activity and mortgage financing for Buy-to-Let 
properties. The Countrywide Rental Price 
Index that we publish monthly has shown 
that the rent for new lets in 2014 has 
increased at 3.8% per annum as a result 
of demand exceeding supply. However, 
the overall rent paid by existing tenants 
increased below inflation at 1.8% with over 
70% of renewals not seeing any increase 
to their rent.
Our customers
We continue to look for ways to enhance 
the experience of our customers, whether 
they are landlords or tenants, making 
dealing with us simpler and more satisfying. 
Improved online systems for landlords, 
extended opening hours and call overflow 
supported by our support teams all go 
towards these goals which continue to 
be our ongoing priority. 
Working with other parts of the Group means 
we can help our customers with any of their 
property needs. This could include referring 
them to our Financial Services division in 
relation to re-mortgages or our sales division 
if a landlord wished to buy or a tenant wishes 
to enter the property ladder. The reverse 
is also true with our Estate Agency and 
Financial Services divisions which are able 
to refer their own Buy-to-Let customers for 
us to help them with their letting needs.
People development
We recognise that committed and engaged 
people will provide great customer service 
and we have worked hard to help our people 
deliver for our customers. We provide 
a fantastic range of training opportunities 
led through our innovative online learning 
management system, ‘i-learn’ which we 
have continued to update throughout the 
year. We made available 95 courses during 
2014 and our employee network of 2,435 
employees completed 37,000 training 
courses. This includes mandatory training 
for all new employees as part of their 
induction to ensure that Countrywide 
delivers an industry leading standard 
with fully trained employees. 
The Countrywide graduate programme is now 
entering its fourth year with the first set of 
graduates fully integrated throughout the 
business in various roles. The business also 
offers a senior management programme 
for the next generation of senior managers 
with both internal and external training to 
support our succession strategy. 
Highlights
• 
Record revenue – £134.6 million – up 20% on 2013
• 
Record EBITDA – £39.3 million – up 37% on 2013
• 
Continued selective acquisitions – 28 deals for consideration of £37.6 million
• 
Multiple award winning – including best National Letting Agent 
• 
New Starts Programme continues to mature to profit
2014 was another record year of growth in the Lettings 
business. Continued investment in all areas of the business 
delivered results.
Lettings
Segmental review continued ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 25
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Our commitment to our people has been 
recognised by winning the Employer of 
the Year award at the prestigious industry 
Negotiator Awards 2014.
Growing our network
Balancing the strong organic growth through 
our New Start and New Opening programmes, 
we have continued to selectively acquire 
businesses that add value to our network 
and can be readily integrated to the wider 
business without affecting the ongoing 
customer relationships that these businesses 
have built up over years. During 2014 we 
acquired 28 businesses including some 
larger businesses and brands such as 
Tucker Gardner in Cambridge and the 
upper market businesses of CHK Mountford 
and APW in Surrey. Most acquisitions are, 
however, small single branch businesses 
which are quickly integrated and adopt 
the trading name of the most appropriate 
Group business. As businesses are integrated 
they benefit from the systems, services and 
scale economies that we can deliver whilst 
still retaining the things their customers value. 
Our core business model often means that 
new revenue streams, for example, insurance 
sales and cross referrals, can be delivered.
Our New Opening programme continued 
our expansion into the rental market 
across the UK by opening a further eleven 
branches. The number of new branches that 
Countrywide has opened over the last 
four years now stands at 168. All branches 
opened as part of our New Starts programme 
in 2010–2012 are now fully integrated into 
the business and contributed £19 million 
of revenue through organic growth.
Supporting the business
We continue to invest in systems and 
processes that support our customers and 
the business. The Landlord Portal continues 
to be developed and is being increasingly 
used by our customers as a valuable tool 
to access key information. We will continue 
to develop this over the coming years.
Our support teams continually review 
processes and ways to ensure that 
engagement with customers is seamless – 
the introduction of new a national phone 
system has meant that customers receive a 
more immediate and better quality service. 
Awards
As previously mentioned, we are delighted 
that the hard work and dedication of our 
wonderful people has been recognised by 
winning 18 awards during 2014 including:
• 
Lettings Agency of the Year – 
Countrywide (RESI Awards 2014); 
• 
Best Large Chain (ESTAS 2014);
• 
Large Lettings Agency of the Year 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014);
• 
Property Management Company of the Year 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014); and
• 
Employer of the Year – Countrywide 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014).
Focus on:
Katy Flay
Katy Flay grew up in Leeds with 
nine siblings and left school with 
no GCSEs, joining Countrywide 
as a Negotiator in April 2007. 
Katy quickly demonstrated 
excellent sales skills and continued 
to develop, rapidly progressing 
and becoming branch manager.
When we opened our Bridgfords flagship 
branch at the Haçienda in Manchester, 
Katy was a natural choice to head the 
new branch. With a brilliant knowledge 
of the fast paced market that exists in 
city centres, particularly in Manchester. 
Katy also understands the motivation 
and demands of a city centre customer; 
both landlords and tenants.
Katy led her team to expand the 
Manchester city office from managing 
just 56 units, to producing over £1 million 
in revenue a year, sitting comfortably 
as one of the top players in Manchester 
city centre’s letting market. Katy also 
worked on the Curtis & Bains acquisition, 
taking responsibility for three city 
centre businesses.
Katy is now a business development 
manager, working closely with our Land 
& New Homes division, bringing new 
business into the Haçienda. 
Katy takes pride in giving back to the 
community through charitable work. 
Her advice is to ‘be passionate about 
what you do’ – a great lesson which she 
lives and breathes. We hope Katy enjoys 
her new role and continues to excel.  26 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
73.7
+14%
2014 73.7
2013 64.9
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
16.4
+34%
2014 16.4
2013 12.2
13 14
Total mortgages arranged (number)
70,529
+16%
2014 70,529
2013 60,640
13 14
Mortgage value (£bn)
10.3
+24%
2014 10.3
2013 8.3
13 14
Operating review
Market conditions in the first four months 
of 2014 were very encouraging, with signs 
of UK economic recovery gathering pace 
and the Government’s ‘Help To Buy 2’ (HTB2) 
initiative for First Time Buyers fully deployed 
across most lenders. This contributed to 
strong consumer optimism, making it easier 
for borrowers to access mortgages and 
enabling more First Time Buyers to enter 
the housing market. Implementation of the 
Mortgage Market Review regulations in late 
April slowed consumer sentiment, with some 
concerns about affordability of borrowing, 
although the regulatory changes have 
generally been well deployed. Across 
the industry both lenders and mortgage 
advisors alike have taken time to become 
accustomed to the changes in requirements, 
and mortgage productivity has slowed in the 
second half of 2014 as a result of embedding 
these regulatory changes. Despite this, 
2014 Group mortgage advances completed 
totalled £10.3 billion; a 24% increase on 
the prior year.
In October we launched a new partnership 
with HSBC; the first time they have entered 
the Intermediary Broker market, where they 
delivered a range of exclusive mortgage 
products to the Countrywide Estate Agency 
customers. This new relationship reflects 
the confidence of our lender partners in the 
Group’s ability to reach customers and the 
growing importance of distribution of 
mortgage products through the intermediary 
channel. Consumers are increasingly selecting 
brokers because of the choice, convenience 
and advice they get from the channel, 
particularly when discussing the affordability 
of their mortgage.
This year we have achieved exceptional 
results in partnership with our chosen 
general insurance providers – delivering 
both high quality insurance products for 
our customers as well as 18% growth in our 
insurance income. An element of the 
increased profitability has been attributed 
to the stable weather conditions experienced 
in the UK in 2014, coupled with the finalisation 
of profit share payments relating to prior 
periods. This enabled the profit share for 
household insurance sales to be £2.7 million 
higher than expected; a situation that is not 
expected to be repeated in 2015. 
Overall, despite the weakening market 
sentiment in the second half of 2014, our 
income is 14% higher than last year and we 
have been able to utilise our infrastructure 
to deliver a strong profit performance in 
2014 with 34% EBITDA growth. 
Market ‘mix’
The Estate Agency distribution was 
unsurprisingly oriented around home movers 
and First Time Buyers and benefited more 
from HTB2 and 95% lending than some other 
brokers. A large element of our Estate Agency 
Highlights
• 
EBITDA growth 34%
• 
18% increase in general insurance income
• 
14% increase in life insurance exchanged annual premium equivalent (APE)
• 
Strong growth from Capital Private Finance, our London brokerage, where 
profits grew over 63% and our Mortgage Intelligence network which also 
had an excellent year
• 
Productivity per Countrywide Estate Agency mortgage consultant has increased 
by 4% year on year
Segmental review continued
The Financial Services division is the third largest mortgage 
distributor in the UK, with just over 5% of the total £205 billion 
UK mortgage market. 
Financial Services ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 27
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Focus on:
Phillipa Legg
growth has been seen in second-hand house 
transactions, with Mortgage Intelligence 
benefiting more from remortgages and 
buy-to-let opportunities. As outlined earlier, 
this was driven as a result of positive housing 
market sentiment in the first half of the year. 
Recruitment
The significant investment made in retaining 
and growing the Estate Agency mortgage 
consultant sales force during the second half 
of 2013 and the first half of 2014 assisted 
our revenue growth as the market gained 
momentum in early 2014. Total mortgage 
consultant headcount closed the year at 
681; an increase in headcount of 70 in 
comparison to the end of December 2013 
(headcount of 611). Due to the extensive 
training and mortgage lead times, new 
recruits take up to six months to become 
revenue generating, so it is satisfying to see 
that that this investment is starting to pay 
dividends. We enter 2015 with a sufficient 
workforce to be able to service our customer 
requirements in the current climate and 
have no plans to increase further. 
Mortgage market
The recent Bank of England decision to 
hold base interest rates steady provides 
borrowers with shelter from interest rate 
instability in the near to medium term and 
will not lead to any dramatic increase in 
remortgaging activity. This coupled with the 
backdrop of the upcoming general election, 
the uncertain consumer sentiment, and 
elevated Quarter 1 2014 activity pre MMR 
and HTB2 will dampen comparable 
mortgage activity in the first half of 2015. 
The regulatory environment continues to 
evolve and we will continue to invest strongly 
in our infrastructure, resourcing and systems 
in order to maintain our high quality service, 
and ensuring we offer expert advice and 
positive outcomes for all our customers. 
Despite the inherent uncertainty in the market, 
the Financial Services division is seeing 
positive momentum in 2015, with an average 
loan value 7% higher than last year.
Phillipa Legg lives in Henton, 
Oxfordshire with her parents. 
She spends most of her spare 
time walking her dog, caring 
for her horse and competing 
in dressage, show jumping 
and cross country.
Phillipa developed an interest in marketing 
when she studied business studies at 
A level. She considered going to university, 
but in September 2011, Phillipa began an 
apprenticeship where she could develop 
her interest and work towards a Chartered 
Institute of Marketing (CIM) Professional 
Certificate in Marketing. 
In January 2012, the company that Phillipa 
had started her apprenticeship with went 
into administration, and Phillipa joined 
Countrywide Financial Services as a CRM 
marketing assistant. We continued to 
support Phillipa’s CIM qualification and 
further development, and within a year, 
Phillipa attained the qualification and was 
promoted to marketing executive, giving 
her more managerial responsibilities 
which she enjoyed. 
In April 2013, Phillipa became a business 
development executive, a broader role 
that catered to Phillipa’s strength of being 
a people person. Phillipa worked closely 
with Claire Limon, Group insurance director, 
to create a group insurance plan to 
centralise our insurance costs, supplier 
management and processes. The purpose 
of the plan is to improve our customers’ 
experience, so they know exactly what 
they are getting and where it is from, no 
matter which part of the Countrywide Group 
they interact with. In November 2014, 
Phillipa became our Group insurance 
manager, working on the Group insurance 
plan in full force. Phillipa’s role is about 
bringing people together to ensure we’re 
all going in the same direction. She has 
built good relationships and isn’t afraid to 
ask questions and look for facts when she 
doesn’t have the answer. Phillipa’s career 
journey has been rapid, and in just three 
years she has proven herself a valuable 
member of the team with a bright future 
ahead of her. 28 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
58.0
+8%
2014 58.0
2013 53.6
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
13.6
+15%
2014 13.6
2013 11.8
13 14
Operating review
2014 saw further growth for the Surveying 
division; mainly delivered by the investments 
made in our industry-leading trainee 
programme, started at the end of 2013. 
The results have provided significant 
growth in our in-house surveyor capacity 
(+26%). This increased scale has been 
underpinned by a growing customer base 
of blue chip lenders with targeted contracts 
being successfully won in the year and 
also impressive growth in work derived 
from B2C customers.
We saw a 15% increase in our trading 
EBITDA to £13.6 million. This was achieved 
via income growth of £4.4 million above 
2013 levels, undertaking ten thousand more 
surveys whilst also importantly improving 
our average fee by 8%. The growth in 
headcount and investment in the trainee 
programme increased our cost base by 
10%. The trainee programme costs in the 
region of £1.5 million, in line with expectations, 
with the first six months of the year having 
no associated income assigned to this cost. 
The unquestionable success of the scheme 
has enabled us to already pay back the 
investment and puts Countrywide Surveyors 
on a strong platform to head into 2015 
and beyond. 
The market
The division started the year very strongly 
with the market exceeding expectations in 
H1 2014, and saw us fully utilise our in-house 
workforce whilst also fully optimising use of 
our consultant network through Countrywide’s 
ownership of United Surveyors. During this 
time, we continued to ensure our customers’ 
needs were met with communication and 
flexibility of service being key focus areas 
of excellence. In H2, market growth slowed 
and, despite attractive products being 
released by many lenders, very little growth 
in the re-mortgage market was experienced.
Risk management
Our focus on risk management is unrelenting 
and we have invested heavily over the last 
couple of years across all aspects of this area 
with technology improvements, increased 
training, bonus elements linked to quality, 
and increases to staffing all playing their 
role in protecting the business going forward. 
The Group established an exceptional 
provision in 2012 to cover the estimated 
cost of claims arising in the division relating 
to the period 2004 to 2007. In 2012 we 
estimated the likely impact of future claims 
to be received as well as the cost of claims 
already in the system. The second half of 
2014 was always seen as a key period in 
Highlights
• 
Further year-on-year income growth of 8% delivering an EBITDA result 15% 
above prior year
• 
Extension of the division’s impressive client base with a successful contract 
win introducing Barclays as a key partner and improved allocations from 
other key lenders
• 
Excellent results from the division’s trainee programme delivering a material 
increase in the Surveying division’s capacity going forward
Segmental review continued
The Surveying Services division is a leading provider of residential 
valuations, surveys and panel management services in the UK with 
over 400 employed qualified surveyors covering most of the UK.
Surveying Services
Total valuations and surveys 
completed (number)
332,290
+1%
2014 332,290
2013 330,121
13 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 29
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
assessing this issue as the six year primary 
statutory limitation period came to an end. 
High levels of claims continue to be an issue 
across the industry. As announced on 
22 January 2015, we have performed a 
detailed review of the latest data and trends 
on PI and as a result we believe it is prudent 
to increase our provision, which has resulted 
in an exceptional charge in the 2014 financial 
results of £15.2 million. The key elements 
behind this charge are an unexpected level 
of claims brought about under common law 
outside of the primary statutory limitation 
period, rather than under contract law 
together with a slight deterioration of claims 
previously notified, and an increase in the 
average loss per claim.
Customers and service
We move into 2015 with a balanced portfolio 
of key customers, following the successful 
award of contracts with Barclays and 
Santander as two of the major success 
stories of 2014. Continued growth in the 
B2C market has also been impressive with 
Countrywide continuing to benefit from 
working closer together as a Group and 
ensuring all our customers’ property needs 
are met. 
Countrywide Surveyors continues to place 
customer service at the heart of its operation 
and always working with our customers 
and our technology partners has, and 
will continue to drive improvements.
The Surveying team
With a rapidly growing workforce, we have 
also placed a further emphasis on the 
support and development of all of our 
remote surveyors. Many of the initiatives 
rolled out in 2014 come from the front line 
and we continue to benefit from a hugely 
experienced and committed workforce. 
Focus on:
Rory Fitzpatrick
Rory Fitzpatrick from Glasgow 
always wanted to be a surveyor. 
In his youth, Rory met people who 
worked as surveyors and saw that 
they were doing well, so he decided 
to complete a building surveying 
degree at Glasgow Caledonian 
University. Rory graduated in 2008 
and worked for a surveying firm both 
during and after completing his 
degree until the market downturn in 
2009, when he was made redundant. 
In March 2009, Rory met Jim Gibson, 
managing director of Harvey, Donaldson 
& Gibson (HDG). This meeting changed 
Rory’s perceptions about the current state 
of the surveying market, giving him the 
insight into life working as a residential 
surveyor. Rory decided this was the role 
for him; he wanted to be out in the field 
90% of the time, rather than sat behind 
a desk. Rory was not a chartered surveyor 
and due to the market, there were no 
opportunities available for a trainee in 
March 2009. Rory was offered a job with 
another firm in June 2009, but turned 
it down to pursue his goal of working for 
HDG and becoming a residential surveyor. 
During this time Rory worked hard, finding 
any paying job to tie him over including 
working as a waiter, bartender and even 
as a curry delivery man. Jim and the team 
at HDG put Rory into a talent pool and 
in August 2009 they were able to offer 
him a role.
Rory has gone from strength to strength 
in his role as a residential surveyor, he 
passed his AssocRICS in October 2010 
and in October 2014, Rory became a 
chartered surveyor. Rory explained that 
this qualification gives him a new sense 
of determination and direction, with a 
willingness to progress and establish 
himself within the organisation. We’re 
looking forward to seeing what the 
future brings for Rory. 30 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
28.6
+1 1%
2014 28.6
2013 25.7
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
9.3
+10%
2014 9.3
2013 8.4
13 14
Conveyances completed* (number)
36,441
+9%
2014 36,441
2013 33,285
13 14
Operating review
2014 was a year of growth for Countrywide 
Conveyancing Services with the division 
delivering an EBITDA of £9.3 million (10% 
above 2013). This result was delivered 
through an 11% increase in income, mainly 
driven by an enhanced focus on the level of 
referrals from our Estate Agency colleagues. 
This facilitated our ability to manage an 
additional 3,156 instructions above 2013 
levels whilst also ensuring optimisation of 
the panel of lawyers we also manage.
Whilst we have a variety of important income 
streams, concentrating on Countrywide’s 
core business is very much at the centre 
of our strategy. This not only represents 
an exciting area for further growth, but 
is also our biggest area where we can be 
instrumental in supporting and caring for 
customers throughout the house buying 
process. Throughout 2014 there have 
been significant investments in technology, 
process improvements and the training 
of teams in both the Conveyancing and 
the Estate Agency Divisions to ensure 
we maximise this opportunity.
Investments made in trainee programmes 
at the end of 2013 have been vital in growing 
the internal capacity of the business with 
the division ending 2014 with 17% of its 
lawyer workforce being home-grown. 
Three separate trainee programmes have 
been run throughout 2013/14 with each 
one having been a success, producing 
fee earners who are trained to the highest 
standard and focussed on delivering 
exceptional customer service. The training 
programme achieved external accreditation 
this year from the Chartered Institute of 
Legal Executives (CILEx).
Sustained growth has enabled us to acquire 
our third legal centre in February 2014 
with the acquisition of Runnett and Co in 
Bridgend. This strategic investment expanded 
Countrywide’s legal headcount by 11% 
and importantly secured further capacity 
to support the growth plans of the business. 
2014 was a year of transition for the Bridgend 
team and progress has been made throughout 
the whole division to align working practices 
and systems to ensure the centre has a great 
platform to grow in 2015 and beyond.
2014 saw a strong start for the division, mainly 
driven by completions from a decent 
opening pipeline carried over from the prior 
year. In a similar way to the overall market, 
instructions in Q1 and Q2 were above or 
in-line with expectation although instructions 
in Q3 and Q4 slowed and were below 
expectation. Whilst much of the story of our 
instructions was driven by the movements 
in the overall market, there were (and are) 
still large opportunities for the Group to 
outperform the market through improved 
sales penetration rates within our Estate 
Agency division.
 
Highlights
• 
A focus on service and working together with the Group’s estate agent 
colleagues have ensured the division has managed over 25,000 home moves 
• 
Increased lawyer capacity through the successful acquisition of a law centre in 
Bridgend and successful results from the trainee programme launched in 2013
• 
Significant investments in technology providing an exciting platform for the 
division and its customers for 2015 and beyond
The Conveyancing Services division has had a year of solid 
year-on-year growth for the division with in-house lawyers 
helping 18% more customers to move into their homes.
* Excluding third party.
Conveyancing Services
Segmental review continued ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 31
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Customer focus
Whilst we pride ourselves on being one of 
the biggest conveyancing practices in the 
industry, great customer service for each 
and every individual is a critical focus area. 
We employ a customer experience team 
whose role is to constantly monitor feedback 
and drive improvements into the business. 
Legal excellence
Supporting and safeguarding the business 
and its customers is, and always will be, 
fundamental to our success. We have a 
strong and established team leading this 
area, who pride themselves on ensuring 
compliance and professionalism is engrained 
into the business whilst also looking at new 
ways of driving improvements for the business 
and the industry. The claims record of the 
division is very good and the regulator 
commended the robust risk and compliance 
governance in place following a successful 
inspection in August 2014. 
Focus on:
Natalie McGuinness
Natalie McGuinness, a mother of 
two from Old Trafford previously 
worked in debt recovery. With a 
young child and a full time job on 
her hands, Natalie also followed her 
passion and went back to college to 
become a qualified beauty therapist. 
Natalie joined Countrywide in September 
2009 as a case progressor, keeping our 
clients and colleagues in Estate Agency 
and Mortgage Services updated with the 
Conveyancing process. Natalie settled 
into the role very quickly with her natural 
flair for customer service and gained a 
promotion to senior case progressor in 
October 2010. 
We always strive to increase capacity, 
helping us to move as many customers 
as we can while providing the best service 
possible. In 2013, we recognised that 
we were best placed to impact the whole 
property sector and decided to continue 
our commitment in driving more capacity 
into the conveyancing workforce. We had 
already established a very good in-house 
training course, and the job market was 
awash with students leaving university, 
looking for career development. We adopted 
a new approach to training and created a 
training academy-style learning environment 
which would develop individuals into 
property lawyers over a period of 
12 to 18 months. To support this, we 
invested in a senior manager and a legal 
skills trainer.
24 people joined the academy beginning 
in January 2014. Our trainees are a mix 
of external candidates and existing 
employees from our Conveyancing sites 
in Cardiff and Manchester. Despite not 
having a legal qualification under her belt, 
Natalie’s determination and passion for the 
opportunity shone through at interview, 
earning her a place on the training academy.
Natalie has gone from strength to strength 
since her move to the academy. She has 
dealt with ‘live’ files and received some 
excellent feedback from her clients, who 
scored Natalie 100% for her customer 
service. Natalie has produced over 100 
contract exchanges and completions in 
her time as a trainee property lawyer. 
To crown her achievements this year 
she won the Countrywide prize for the 
student with the most potential.
Natalie’s natural customer service ethos 
and passion to become a property lawyer 
has enabled her to succeed and flourish 
with the dedicated support provided by 
the training academy. 
We’re delighted with Natalie’s achievements 
to date and we’re sure there will be more 
to come. Natalie said that she’s looking 
forward to gaining experience in all different 
types of properties – firstly on the residential 
side but eventually looking at commercial. 
The training academy is a three-year 
investment with our next cohort joining 
us around summer 2015. 32 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
KPIs
Total income (£m)
72.8
2014 72.8
2013* 16.6
13 14
EBITDA (£m)
8.4
2014 8.4
2013* 2.3
13 14
Operating review
2014 was the first full year for Lambert 
Smith Hampton as part of the Countrywide 
Group. Buoyed by strong commercial market 
fundamentals, both in London and across our 
regional footprint, Lambert Smith Hampton 
saw an increase of 118% in EBITDA from 
£3.8 million for the same period last year 
to £8.4 million. The favourable variance 
was achieved from a solid income 
performance which finished at a six year 
high of £72.8 million. Although overall 
direct costs increased year on year, these 
were somewhat offset by much lower 
costs in other areas. The increase in direct 
costs were directly attributable to tactical 
investment in key growth areas for our 
business; in particular Property Management 
and Public Sector divisions in London where 
year on year head count has increased 
following new contract wins. We expect 
income from these contracts to flow 
into 2015.
While there has been improvement this year 
in the UK transactional commercial markets, 
we are also pleased to report income growth 
in our consulting specialisms which now 
account for 60% of our overall revenue 
in 2014 and grew by £5.6 million during 
the year. Most notable performance was 
from the Valuation division where turnover 
increased year on year by £1.7 million/20%.
The agency side of our business had a solid 
year reporting increases of £2.7 million in 
income year on year, with some significant 
office agency and industrial agency deals 
contributing to this performance. 
Our Capital Markets business performed 
well again this year achieving success in 
advising on non-performing loan portfolios, 
with Lambert Smith Hampton having 
advised on over €38 billion of distressed 
debt portfolios to date. 
In terms of geographies, we saw growth 
across most of our office network but in 
particular significant levels of growth came 
from our key hubs, namely London where 
income grew by £2.7 million/13% year on 
year. East of England where income increased 
year on year by £0.9 million/11%, where 
growth in public sector work in the region 
contributed to this and Birmingham with 
income growth of £0.3 million/5.7% year 
on year, one of the main drivers being the 
strong performance from the Valuation team.
Looking at the London market, which 
accounted for 32.5% of the overall revenue 
for 2014, significant growth came from four 
areas: the Consultancy divisions, comprising 
Valuation with an increased turnover 
of £0.7 million, Property Management 
£0.5 million; and from and Planning and 
Development £0.5 million; and from the 
agency side of the business, Office Agency 
saw an increase in turnover of £0.5 million. 
This year also saw Lambert Smith Hampton 
completing its first acquisition. BTW Shiells 
was the largest property consulting business 
in Northern Ireland. In the first six months 
of trading under the Lambert Smith Hampton 
brand the new Northern Ireland office 
performed significantly ahead of expectations 
for both income and EBITDA.
Highlights
• 
Turnover 16% ahead of the same period last year
• 
EBITDA growth 118%
• 
LSH acquired BTW Shiells, the biggest property consulting company 
in Northern Ireland
Lambert Smith Hampton delivered a financial performance 
ahead of plan in its first year at Countrywide and is now 
poised for further expansion.
Lambert Smith Hampton
Segmental review continued
*  2013 comparative for both income and EBITDA is three 
month period only. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 33
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Investment demand for so-called ‘alternative’ 
sectors (e.g. private rented sector, healthcare, 
student accommodation) has increased 
sharply, and 2014 was a record year for 
investment. With plenty of money still looking 
to invest, we expect this to be a key 
opportunity in 2015.
While 2015 does bring greater uncertainty, 
both economically and politically, consensus 
points to another year of robust growth 
for the UK economy and its commercial 
property markets. Overall, 2015 should be 
another good year for commercial property 
supported by improving occupational markets, 
although the pace of growth should moderate 
to more sustainable levels. While the risks 
have increased, on balance, the outlook 
remains favourable for both investors and 
occupiers over the year ahead.
Focus on:
Lawrence Slater
Lawrence Slater from Watford, 
grew up around family members 
who worked in property, so Lawrence 
decided it was something he would 
enjoy learning about. 
Lawrence spent a few summers working 
on building sites and went to the University 
of Sheffield to study surveying. After 
graduating, Lawrence decided to find a job 
in property and read several commercial 
property magazines noting the firms listed 
in them. Lawrence wrote to all of the 
firms, asking them for a job. He received 
a few responses, but in November 2003 
Lambert Smith Hampton (LSH) offered 
Lawrence a graduate role in the St Albans 
office which Lawrence was pleased 
to accept.
Lawrence finished his graduate rotations 
in April 2006 and worked in lease advisory 
and property management as an assistant 
until he became a qualified surveyor. 
Lawrence now works as a senior surveyor 
with Hertfordshire County Council as his 
main contract. He enjoys the diversity 
and variety of work, including getting 
out on site. 
Lawrence talks at local schools in 
Hertfordshire to promote surveying and 
career opportunities at LSH. After one 
of Lawrence’s talks, a student contacted 
him to see if a week-long work experience 
placement could be arranged. It was, and 
the student was able to complete his work 
experience at the St Albans office, where 
he was shown several aspects of the 
business. Lawrence is also involved in 
forums with graduates, improving their 
experience at LSH, and he is currently 
acting as a supervisor and counsellor 
for graduates within his office that are 
working towards becoming qualified 
chartered surveyors.
Commenting on Countrywide’s acquisition 
of Lambert Smith Hampton in September 
2013, Lawrence said that it was a nice 
change – he’d been through the good 
times in commercial property industry. 
However, the housing market downturn 
had a difficult impact on the whole market, 
making things pretty difficult for a few years. 
Lawrence believes that Countrywide gave 
LSH a nice change and a push. It is another 
property firm, mainly on the residential 
side, which is a good fit with LSH’s 
commercial expertise.
Lawrence lives with his partner who 
also works at LSH and their five year old 
daughter. We are hoping she will become 
a surveyor too. STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 saw a strong financial performance 
across the Group with income up 20% to 
£702.2 million and EBITDA increased by 
40% to £121.1 million. This resulted in an 
improvement in the Group EBITDA margin 
from 15% in 2013 to 17% in 2014, the 
highest ever recoded.
Excluding acquisitions undertaken in 2014 
and the removal of Lambert Smith Hampton 
results in both years, underlying business 
EBITDA growth achieved was 21%.
All of our divisions reported improvements 
in income, with all except London and Premier 
recording growth in EBITDA (the latter 
impacted by the slowdown associated 
with Central London activity and stamp 
duty reform). Our central costs remained 
comparable to 2014, partially due to the 
offset of non-recurring benefits of circa 
£3 million, but are likely to increase in 
coming years as the Group continues 
to grow.
Depreciation and amortisation
Flowing through from EBITDA, our 
depreciation and amortisation charge 
continues to be separated to indicate the 
depreciation and amortisation that relates 
to assets purchased for use in the business 
and amortisation arising on those intangible 
assets that have been recognised as a result 
of business combinations. The underlying 
depreciation and amortisation charge 
increased by £3.2 million, the principal drivers 
of which were increases of £0.8 million 
and £1.5 million for computer software 
and hardware respectively as a result of 
the strategic investment to replace our 
infrastructure through the seven year 
outsourcing partnership with CGI which 
commenced in 2012. Amortisation of 
intangible assets recognised through 
business combinations has increased by 
£2.0 million as a result of the incremental 
rate of growth in acquisitions during the 
year. Whilst we expected amortisation 
charges to increase due to our acquisition 
strategy, it should be noted that £6.6 million 
of the annual charge relates to intangible 
assets recognised in 2007, when the Group 
was taken private, and this will end in 2017.
Share-based payments
Share-based payment charges are also 
reported separately on the face of the 
income statement. The most significant 
proportion of this charge relates to a 
specific scheme granted at the point of the 
IPO last year. Immediately following the 
capital reorganisation in March 2013, we 
granted 7.2 million options to employees 
who were former equity holders of 
Countrywide Holdings, Ltd under the IPO 
Plan. These are nil cost options which will 
vest based on adjusted Group EBITDA for 
2014. 80% of these options will vest in 
March 2015 and the balance in March 2016.
Strong growth in improved market, 
underpinned by organic growth as well 
as strategic acquisitions.
Jim Clarke
Group chief financial officer
The charge to the income statement in 
2014 was £10.6 million (2013: £6.9 million) 
with an additional related employers’ 
national insurance charge of £1.3 million 
(2013: £1.7 million).
In addition, we also operate annual grants 
under a three year Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) to senior managers which commenced 
in September 2013. These are nil cost options 
which will vest subject to certain performance 
criteria disclosed within the remuneration 
report. The charge for the year was 
£2.1 million (2013: £0.4 million for a four 
month period) plus employers’ national 
insurance of £0.3 million (2013: £0.1 million). 
Our SIP scheme also has a three year vesting 
period and, having only commenced in 
October 2013, the cost is incrementally 
growing and will build over time to around 
£0.9 million in 2016. 
Exceptional items
We have reported a net exceptional income 
of £1.9 million, which comprises non-recurring 
costs of £15.2 million in respect of 
professional indemnity provisions charges, 
offset by £2.5 million of deferred income 
in respect of our contract with Zoopla 
(which will continue to recur for a further 
year) and £14.6 million of gains arising 
on the partial disposal of our shareholding 
in Zoopla.
Group financial review
34 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Segmental results
Total income EBITDA
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Variance
%
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Variance
%
Estate Agency 210,495 192,968 +9 28,195 16,131 +75
London & Premier 118,843 115,634 +3 23,274 24,176 -4
Lettings 134,629 112,515 +20 39,266 28,624 +37
Financial Services 73,720 64,944 +14 16,386 12,213 +34
Surveying Services 57,986 53,621 +8 13,603 11,834 +15
Conveyancing Services 28,570 25,695 +11 9,310 8,435 +10
Lambert Smith Hampton 72,798 16,582 n/a 8,357 2,304 n/a
Central services 5,160 2,809 +84 (17,288) (17,087) -1
Total Group 702,201 584,768 +20 121,103 86,630 +40 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 35
Professional indemnity claims
It has been a challenging year in respect 
of our experience of PI claims. The number 
of claims being received has reduced 
substantially and significant progress has 
been made closing claims but we have seen 
a marked increase in claims for surveys over 
six years old: over 69% for surveys up to 
and including 2007 and the remainder 
principally relating to 2008. We have updated 
our financial models reflecting the latest 
inputs and trends as well as taking into 
account available information in respect 
of all open claims. As a result we have 
increased our provision by £15.2 million.
Evaluating these potential liabilities is highly 
judgemental and as we are now dealing 
with smaller numbers of claims, older more 
complex cases, our estimates can be 
significantly affected by the outcome, 
good or bad, of a handful of claims. 
Finance charges
During the prior year, with the proceeds from 
the IPO and £75 million drawn from our 
finance facilities, we repaid the £250 million 
10% fixed interest debt in May 2013, incurring 
£4.5 million of exceptional costs as part of 
this process. Consequently our finance costs 
have reduced by £13.2 million and are now 
incurred at a margin of 1.75% over LIBOR.
Finance income earned reflects an average 
rate of 0.5% earned on our free cash 
balances over the year, reflecting lower 
returns offered in 2014.
 
 
Mortgage valuation by year of survey
Number of claims
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Survey year
Moving annual total of mortgage valuation claims recieved
Dec 07
Apr 08
Aug 08
Dec 08
Apr 09
Aug 09
Dec 09
Apr 10
Aug 10
Dec 10
Apr 11
Dec 11
Aug 11
Apr 12
Aug 12
Dec 12
Apr 13
Aug 13
Dec 13
Apr 14
Aug 14
Dec 14
0
400
200
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Downward tread continues – now below 300 pa STRATEGIC REPORT
36 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Taxation 
Our total tax change for 2014 of £1 1.7 million 
represents an effective tax rate of 14.7%. 
The principal reasons for the lower effective 
rate are: reduction in the tax rate to 20% 
generated a £1.2 million deferred tax credit; 
and utilisation of unprovided capital losses 
of £4.9 million.
Countrywide’s business activities operate 
predominantly in the UK. All businesses are 
UK tax registered apart from some small 
operations in Hong Kong, Italy and Ireland. 
We act to ensure that we have a transparent 
and constructive relationship with HMRC 
and enjoy a low risk rating. We conduct 
our tax compliance with a generally risk 
averse approach to all tax obligations whilst 
endeavouring to maintain shareholder value. 
Tax planning is done with full disclosure to 
HMRC when necessary and being mindful 
of reputational risk to the Group. Transactions 
will not be undertaken unless they have a 
business purpose or commercial rationale.
While our contribution from corporation 
tax was low, largely due to the utilisation 
of unprovided capital losses, our businesses 
generate considerable tax revenue for the 
Government in the UK. 
Net assets
At 31 December 2014, our net assets 
per issued share were 242.2 pence, a total 
of £531.6 million (2013: £521.2 million) 
an increase of £10.4 million, or 2%, driven 
by a post-tax profit for the year of £67.9 million 
offset by returns to shareholders of 
£57.2 million (£43.9 million dividends 
and £13.3 million share buy backs).
We hold 4.0% of the share capital of Zoopla 
Property Group plc which we report as an 
available-for-sale financial asset and we will 
continue to monitor the developments of 
that business. 
Capital expenditure
Throughout the prolonged market downturn, 
we carefully managed our level of capital 
expenditure to protect our overall cash 
position. As planned, during 2013 we 
commenced a programme of branch 
refurbishments using our centralised refit 
teams which carried on throughout 2014. 
The most significant increase in capital 
expenditure relates to our ongoing IT 
transformation project with CGI. Our seven 
year contract with CGI included transformation 
services, new data centres, software, 
telephony and refreshing the hardware across 
most of the Group. We have capitalised 
appropriate amounts and accounted for 
these as a finance lease. Consequently we 
have recognised significantly higher capital 
expenditure, the cost of which will be 
spread over the contract. 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Refurbishments 13.0 8.6
IT ongoing 10.4 6.6
Cash paid capex 23.4 15.2
IT transformation 
(finance leases) 6.6 11.9
30.0 27.1
Excluding acquisitions undertaken in 2014 
and the removal of Lambert Smith Hampton 
in both years, underlying business EBITDA 
growth achieved was 21%
Group financial review continued
£80 million invested in 
new business and capital 
projects. £57 million cash 
returned to shareholders
For the year ended 31 December
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Corporation tax paid on profits for the year 17.2 7.5
Employment taxes collected 132.0 113.0
Employment taxes incurred by the Group 47.0 30.0
VAT collected 95.0 75.0
VAT incurred by the Group 1.9 1.6
Business rates paid 11.0 10.0
Stamp duty land tax collected through conveyancing business 42.6 34.0 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 37
Net debt
At 31 December 2014 we had cash balances 
of £28.6 million (2013: £36.3 million) and 
a £100 million (2013: £75 million) term 
loan repayable in three annual instalments 
from March 2015: £20 million, £25 million 
and £55 million. Additionally we had a 
£50 million revolving credit facility (RCF) 
available, of which £20 million was drawn 
down at the year end.
In February 2015, we renegotiated our facility 
to a to £250 million revolving credit facility 
with a reduced margin and a longer term.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash 28.6 36.3
Debt* (131.7) (84.7)
Net debt (103.1) (48.4)
*  Net of capitalised banking fees.
Cash flow
Net cash generated from operating activities 
increased by £46.9 million to £88.0 million 
for the year (2013: £41.1 million) representing 
40.1 pence per share (2013: 18.7 pence 
based on number of shares currently in 
issue). Both years have been impacted 
by payments to settle PI claims. Payments 
in 2014 were lower than expectations at 
£14.4 million compared to £18.1 million 
of payments in 2013, principally due to 
the timing of settlements.
We increased our investment in new 
business and capital projects by £17.1 million 
to £80.5 million (2013: £63.4 million) and 
returned £57.2 million to shareholders (2013: 
£4.4 million) funded in part by the sale of 
Zoopla shares, realising £21.1 million, and 
drawing £45 million from our banking facilities.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 10.0 pence (net) per share 
(2013: 6.0 pence), giving a total 2014 
dividend of 24.0 pence (net) per share 
(2013: 8.0 pence). Subject to approval 
at the AGM, to be held on 29 April 2015 
the dividend will be paid on 7 May 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at 27 March 2015.
Jim Clarke
Group chief financial officer
26 February 2015
All of our divisions 
reported improvements 
in income 38 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
Directors
3
6
Employees
6,298
5,273
Senior management
12
51
Male Female
Striving to be a good citizen
The Group strives to be a good 
corporate citizen. Through 
its managers and its people, 
Countrywide is committed to 
promoting protection of the 
environment; supporting 
charities and local communities; 
promoting equal opportunities; 
ensuring safe and efficient 
working practices; and working 
with suppliers who uphold 
similar values.
Gender diversity
*  ‘Senior management’ comprises employees with 
responsibility for planning, directing or controlling 
the activities of the Group or a strategically 
significant part of it. (Directors of subsidiary 
companies are included only to the extent that 
the subsidiary is significant in the context of the 
Group as a whole.)
Employees
We recognise that our employees are 
our greatest asset and key to continued 
growth and success and, as such, we 
are committed to providing careers and 
working environments in which our people 
can achieve to their fullest potential.
Development and training
Developing future talent is fundamental 
to Countrywide. Talent management and 
leadership development programmes are 
operating for promising senior management 
within the business, whilst we continue to 
recruit and invest in trainee and graduate 
talent to help meet our future management 
requirements. New apprenticeship and 
graduate recruitment schemes have been 
implemented in several divisions of the Group, 
alongside City and Guilds accredited training 
for employees within our retail operations, 
including the opportunity of sponsorship to 
achieve recognised professional qualifications 
that are relevant to our sector. Details of 
specific case studies are included within our 
operational reviews. We provide full visibility 
of our customer facing employees including 
their levels of training and experience to 
our customers and prospective customers 
through our online Register of Property Agents 
(www.agencypro.co.uk). The Register 
provides assurance that our estate agency 
employees all meet the requisite standards 
of professionalism that our customers will 
expect when we advise them and represent 
their interests during one of the most 
significant transactions that they are 
likely to undertake in their lifetime.
We:
• 
provide clear and fair terms of 
employment for our employees;
• 
provide clean, healthy and safe 
working conditions;
• 
have a fair remuneration policy everywhere 
we operate;
• 
strive for equal opportunities for all 
present and potential employees;
• 
encourage employees to develop skills 
and progress in their careers;
• 
do not employ underage employees;
• 
ensure that employees are aware of the 
Group’s policies on insider trading, bribery 
and inappropriate gifts, money laundering 
and whistle-blowing; and
• 
encourage a harmonious working 
environment with zero tolerance to 
bullying or to any form of harassment 
linked to an individual’s sex or other 
personal characteristics.
Communication
We recognise the importance of good 
communication with our employees and 
have continued to keep them informed 
on matters affecting them as employees. 
To support this we have a Group-wide 
newsletter, ‘Inside Countrywide’, as well 
as specific publications to keep our 
employees up to date and informed. 
The newsletter focuses on communicating 
operational changes, examples of best 
practice and highlight specific sales activities, 
success stories and teamwork around the 
business. Employees can access our intranet 
to obtain other general information on the 
Group. Our second Group-wide employee 
engagement survey was conducted in 
June 2014. Feedback from the initial 
consultation in September 2013 was rolled 
into a continual improvement programme 
and during the period employee engagement 
rates increased by 4% to 71% and further 
work is ongoing to continually improve the 
experience of our people. Employees are 
also encouraged to discuss operational 
issues with their line management and to 
suggest ways to improve performance 
and efficiency. 
Our people are also encouraged to become 
shareholders in the Company. The Group 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) has been running 
successfully since its inception in October 
2013. It is open to all employees with more 
than 18 months’ continuous service and 
the Company gives one matching share for 
every two shares purchased by the employee 
(within the maximum investment terms 
established by HMRC). 
Equal opportunities
We are committed to a policy of equal 
opportunity and diversity in employment 
and recognise that this is essential to 
ensuring the success and growth of 
the organisation. 
A full corporate social responsibility 
policy statement is included on our 
website, but key areas are 
summarised below
Corporate responsibility ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 39
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
To this end, we make every effort to select, 
recruit, train and promote the best candidates 
for the job; to treat all employees and 
applicants fairly, regardless of race, gender, 
marital status, age, nationality, ethnic origin, 
religious belief, sexual orientation or disability; 
and to ensure that no employee suffers 
harassment or intimidation.
Employment opportunities are available to 
disabled persons in accordance with their 
abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with 
other employees. If an employee becomes 
disabled during employment, we make every 
effort to enable them to continue employment 
by making reasonable adjustments in the 
workplace and retraining for alternative 
work where necessary.
Information security
We have achieved and maintain the 
ISO 27001 accreditation in our major 
business to business operating divisions 
and aspire to operate in line with the 
International Standard for Information 
Security Management, ISO 27001, in 
all of our major retail operations.
A dedicated Group Information Security 
Manager is responsible for the strategic 
management of information security, 
including risk management, together with 
implementation and enforcement of the 
Information Security Policy.
Charitable giving
Countrywide supports a Workplace Charitable 
Giving scheme so that employees can donate 
to their favourite charities tax efficiently 
through payroll deduction, donating over 
£19,000 during 2014. Countrywide also 
supports two national charities – Shelter 
(helping the homeless) and Cancer 
Research UK.
The subsidiary businesses are also 
encouraged to support causes within 
their local communities and employees 
from across the country participated in 
a number of local initiatives. We operate 
in local markets; our people are local 
and our brands are local, making our 
contribution to the local community an 
important part of our charitable giving.
During 2014 we have given over £80,000 
to local charities and causes.
Human rights
While the Group is accountable to investors, 
we take into account the interest of all our 
stakeholders including our employees, our 
customers and our suppliers, as well as the 
local community and the environment in 
which we operate.
Countrywide’s reputation is one of its key 
assets and, as a major player in the UK 
property services sector, adhering to the 
highest standards of integrity, personal 
conduct, ethics and fairness is deemed 
to be of vital importance.
Due to the regulatory requirements in the 
UK we have judged that human rights are 
not a material risk for the business. We do, 
however, work closely with our third party 
external suppliers to ensure their human 
rights and ethics policies are aligned with 
those of Countrywide. Our support function 
in India, WNS, has a foundation called 
WNS Cares Foundation. It takes care of 
providing education and a lot of other facilities 
and benefits to the children in the society. 
This foundation exists in all the countries 
WNS operates from and is actively involved 
in child education. More information on 
the foundation can be found by visiting 
www.wnscaresfoundation.org.
Environmental matters
Environmental savings make good business 
sense. Our primary objective is to minimise 
our carbon footprint and any negative impact 
we have on the environment. We recycled 
over 40,000 bags of rubbish during 2014.
We are committed to the following:
• 
to meet or exceed the requirements of 
relevant legislative, regulatory and 
environmental codes of practice;
• 
to identify, reduce and dispose of waste 
arising from our operations in a manner 
that minimises harm to the environment 
and prevents pollution of land, air and water;
• 
to reduce the consumption of energy and 
water and use renewable and/or 
recyclable resources wherever practicable;
• 
to encourage our suppliers and 
subcontractors to implement good 
environmental practices and procedures 
which support our own objectives 
and targets; and
• 
to take responsibility for the maintenance 
and revision of our environmental policy, 
which is reviewed on a regular basis, in order 
to set environmental objectives and targets 
for continual improvement, as we recognise 
the need for sustainable development.
The following initiatives are in place:
• 
We use paper that is made from agricultural 
waste and not wood, holds the full FSC 
accreditation and is compliant with 
ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and 
OHSAS 80001:2007.
• 
We launched local initiatives to ensure 
branches recycle office waste and our 
Head Office recycles all waste and uses 
Fair Trade produce. We are working in 
partnership with a waste management 
provider with the aim to increase our 
recycling volumes to zero waste to landfill.
• 
Employees are encouraged to dispose 
of all paper waste in secure bins, 100% 
of which is recycled.
• 
Recycling of used printer cartridges and 
mobile phones. 95% of our toner 
cartridges are recycled in partnership 
with our printer suppliers.
• 
Epayslips were introduced for all Group 
employees in 2010, which reduced our 
carbon footprint and print and postal costs.
• 
With effect from July 2011, we opted to 
ensure that all newly ordered company 
vehicles had a CO
2
 emission of no greater 
than 160gsm. This was further reduced 
to a cap of 130gsm on the introduction 
of a new fleet policy in January 2013.
• 
In 2011 we launched a Cycle to Work 
scheme, in order that employees can tax 
efficiently purchase bicycles for cycling 
to work.
• 
During 2013 we introduced a half 
hourly meter pilot to monitor and reduce 
electricity usage and also commenced 
a voltage optimisation pilot to reduce 
energy consumption.
For our greenhouse gas emissions, please 
see the directors’ report on page 70. 40 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
We are committed to 
supporting best practice 
in corporate governance
The Board provides leadership to the Group 
and is collectively responsible for the long term 
success of the Company. It sets the strategy 
and oversees its implementation, ensuring that 
acceptable risks are taken and appropriate 
governance structures and controls are in place.
Corporate governance 
41 Letter from the chairman
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance statement 
46 Report of the Nomination Committee
48 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
54 Directors’ remuneration report
68 Directors’ report
71 Directors’ responsibilities statement OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 41
Introduction
At Countrywide, we are committed to the delivery  
of high standards of corporate governance.
Letter from the chairman
Dear shareholder
I am very pleased to introduce my first 
corporate governance statement as chairman 
of the Board of Countrywide plc, having 
moved from the post of chief executive officer 
on 1 September 2014. The corporate 
governance statement that follows intends 
to give shareholders a clear understanding 
of the Group’s corporate governance 
arrangements and their operation during 
the year, including an analysis of the level 
of compliance with the principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’).
Board composition
In his Chairman’s statement last year, 
David Watson noted both my desire 
to step down as chief executive officer 
during 2014 and agreement to accept 
appointment as chairman once a new 
chief executive officer was in post; and 
the plan to progress the appointment 
of two independent non-executive directors 
to return the composition of the Board to 
a majority of independent non-executive 
directors and compliance with the Code. 
Further details in respect of the search and 
selection process conducted for the new chief 
executive officer and non-executive directors 
are contained within the Nomination Committee 
report. As a result of the unplanned resignation 
of Sandra Turner, a third independent 
non-executive director was also sought 
and appointed.
The Board’s decision in respect of my 
own appointment as chairman, having 
previously been chief executive officer 
of the Company, was obviously a significant 
topic for consideration by the Nomination 
Committee and wider Board, following 
consultation with major shareholders in 
advance of that appointment. This transition 
from chief executive officer to chairman 
does place us in non-compliance with 
provisions A.3.1 and B.1.1 of the Code, but 
additional checks and balances have been 
instigated to counter my inability to meet 
independence criteria (due to employment 
as an executive director within the last 
five years and participation in a long term 
incentive pay arrangement during that period 
of employment which have not yet vested). 
The rationale for my appointment and the 
conditions in place have been detailed in the 
Nomination Committee report on page 46.
Board effectiveness
The Board appreciates the insights to be 
gained from an external evaluation of its 
effectiveness and that of its Committees. 
Such an evaluation has been commissioned 
and will be concluded during the second 
half of 2015. This planned process, and the 
completion of an internal performance 
evaluation process, is discussed in further 
detail on page 47.
Your Board is fully committed to supporting 
both the principles and application of best 
practice in corporate governance. I believe 
we continued to strengthen effective 
corporate governance procedures during 
2014 and these will underpin the continued 
success of the Group.
Future priorities
As chairman, my main responsibility is to 
lead the Board and ensure that it is operating 
effectively and focusing its time, energy and 
attention on the right areas. On completion 
of the externally facilitated Board effectiveness 
review, we will agree a set of priorities against 
which we will report progress in future years. 
Our aim will be to ensure that we, as a Board, 
are doing the right things the right way and 
are leading from the front in providing the 
right example for Countrywide.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
26 February 2015
We continued to strengthen 
effective corporate 
governance procedures 
during 2014 and these 
will underpin the continued 
success of the Group CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1. Grenville Turner
Chairman
Grenville joined the Group in August 2006 and 
became Group chief executive in January 
2007. Taking the Group private in 2007 
he then led the Group’s return to the public 
market in 2013 and became non-executive 
chairman on 1 September 2014. 
Grenville has almost 40 years’ experience in 
retail banking and the property sector. Past 
directorships have included Rightmove.co.uk, 
St James’s Place Plc, Sainsbury’s Bank Plc 
and Realogy, the largest realtor in the US. 
In addition to being non-executive chairman 
of Countrywide plc, Grenville is currently 
Chairman of Knightsbridge Student Housing Ltd 
and Bellpenny Ltd. He is also a non-executive 
director of the Zoopla Property Group and 
DCLG. Grenville is a qualified chartered 
banker and holds an MBA from Cranfield 
School of Management. 
N
2. David Watson
Deputy chairman and senior independent 
non-executive director
David joined the Group in September 2013. 
He was appointed non-executive director 
of the Company and chairman of the 
Company’s Audit and Risk Committee 
on 2 September 2013. David is currently a 
non-executive director of Charles Taylor plc, 
Kames Capital plc, Hermes Fund Managers 
Limited and T R Property Investment Trust plc. 
He chairs the audit committees of Charles 
Taylor plc, Hermes Fund Managers Limited 
and T R Property Investment Trust plc. 
He has extensive industry and accounting 
experience. David has had a distinguished 
career as a finance director. Most recently he 
was finance director for the general insurance 
division of Aviva plc and prior to that he held 
various other senior financial roles at Aviva as 
well as Prudential Group and NatWest Markets. 
David is a chartered accountant and a graduate 
of City University Business School. 
A
 
N
 
R
3. Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Alison joined the Group in September 2014. 
Alison was previously managing director 
at Bupa plc, responsible for international 
development markets, and has held a range 
of senior posts including chief operating 
officer of UK private hospitals business 
at Bupa and a number of key positions 
in British Airways. 
In June 2012 Alison joined the board of 
Cable & Wireless Communications plc as a 
non-executive director and between 2009 
and 2013 Alison was chair of Opportunity 
Now, which seeks to accelerate change 
for women in the workplace. Alison was 
also a non-executive director of the Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office (FCO) between 
2005 and 2010, and in the 2011 New Year 
Honours Alison was appointed a CMG for 
her services to the Board of the FCO.
4. Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
Jim joined the Group in November 2007. 
He was previously finance director and 
company secretary of JD Wetherspoon 
and has previously worked for David Lloyd 
Leisure (a division of Whitbread plc) and 
HP Bulmer Holdings plc. Jim is a graduate 
of Stirling University and he qualified 
as a chartered accountant in 1984.
Board of directors
Our team
As at the date of signing the directors’ report,  
the following people were directors of the Company:
42
2 1 4 3
Key to committee membership:
A
 Audit and Risk Committee
N
 Nomination Committee
R
 Remuneration Committee
 Chairman OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
5. Cathy Turner
Independent non-executive director
Cathy joined the Group in July 2013 and 
was appointed non-executive director of the 
Company and chairman of the Company’s 
Remuneration Committee on 31 July 2013. 
She is currently a vice president of UNICEF 
UK and a member of the board of the Royal 
College of Art and the Institute of Financial 
Services. She has extensive industry experience 
working with Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young 
and Watson Wyatt as a compensation and 
benefits consultant in her early career. She 
subsequently joined Barclays PLC, where 
she was a member of the group executive 
committee with responsibility for human 
resources, corporate affairs, strategy and 
brand and marketing. During her time with 
Barclays she was also director of investor 
relations for four years and had extensive 
experience in remuneration in her many 
roles. Most recently, she was chief administrative 
officer of Lloyds Banking Group PLC. She is 
a graduate of the University of Lancaster. 
A
 
N
 
R
6. Richard Adam
Independent non-executive director
Richard was appointed as a non-executive 
director of the Company on 9 June 2014 
and became chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee on 1 August 2014.
A chartered accountant qualifying with KPMG 
in 1982, Richard has nearly 30 years of 
experience as finance director of private and 
listed businesses. Since April 2007 Richard 
has been group finance director of Carillion plc 
and before that of Associated British Ports 
Holdings plc. He was previously non-executive 
director and chairman of the audit committee 
of SSL International plc. 
He is a graduate of the University of Reading. 
A
 
N
 
R
7. Jane Lighting
Independent non-executive director
Jane has spent her career in broadcast media, 
including chief executive officer of Channel 5 
Broadcasting for five years until 2008. She was 
formerly a non-executive director of Paddy 
Power plc and is currently non-executive 
director and senior independent director 
of Trinity Mirror plc.  
A
 
N
 
R
8. Rupert Gavin
Independent non-executive director
Rupert has a range of board positions, at 
both chairman and director level in a variety 
of businesses, with a strong consumer bias. 
Most recently he was chief executive officer 
of Odeon and UCI Cinemas Group between 
2005 and 2014. He was previously at the 
BBC where he was chairman and chief 
executive of BBC Worldwide and also at 
BT where he was managing director of 
the consumer division, prior to which he 
was at the Dixons Stores Group latterly 
as deputy managing director. 
N
 
R
 
9. Caleb Kramer
Non-executive director
Caleb joined the Group in May 2009 and 
was appointed as a director. He is a managing 
director and portfolio manager (Europe) 
at Oaktree Capital Management (UK) LLP. 
Prior to joining Oaktree in 2000, Caleb 
co-founded Seneca Capital Partners LLC, 
a private equity investment firm. From 1994 
to 1996, Caleb was employed by Archon 
Capital Partners, an investment firm. Prior 
to 1994, Caleb was an associate in mergers 
and acquisitions at Dillon Read and Co. Inc. 
and an analyst at Merrill Lynch and Co. Inc. 
Caleb received a BA degree in economics 
from the University of Virginia.
5 9 6 8 7
 Chairman 1
 Executive directors 2
 Independent non-executive directors 5
 Non-independent non-executive director 1
43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
44 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Introduction
This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 have been applied to the affairs 
of the Company. The Code can be viewed at www.frc.org.uk.
Corporate governance statement 
Compliance with the 2012 Code
The directors have considered the contents and requirements of the Code and note the following instances, and periods, of non-compliance:
• 
The appointment of Grenville Turner as chairman on 1 September 2014, having held the position of chief executive officer immediately prior to 
that date, results in non-compliance with provisions A.3.1 of the Code that a chief executive should not go on to be chairman of the same 
company. Additional counterbalances have been identified in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 46. In addition, he does 
not meet the independence criteria set out in B.1.1 of the Code on appointment.
• 
Following the resignation of Robert Davies on 7 November 2013, the Board did not consist of a majority of independent non-executive 
directors (excluding the chairman) in accordance with provision B.1.2 of the Code. However, compliance with this provision was achieved 
on 9 June 2014, following the appointment of two independent non-executive directors.
The corporate governance statement includes pages 44 to 53. Additional information in respect of the operation, and terms of reference, 
of the Remuneration Committee is included within the separate Directors’ remuneration report.
The role of the Board and division of responsibilities
The Board provides leadership to the Group and is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company. It sets the strategy 
and oversees its implementation, ensuring that acceptable risks are taken and appropriate governance structures and controls are in place. 
It ensures that the right people and resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, review management performance and deliver 
long term value to shareholders and other stakeholders.
In pursuit of these leadership objectives, specific actions taken by the Board were as follows:
Responsibility Specific actions during period
Setting and reviewing the 
Group’s long term objectives 
and commercial strategy
Annual strategy meeting 
dedicated to reviewing Group’s 
strategic direction and agreeing 
regular Board updates.
Overseeing and approving the 
Group’s agreement with Hermes 
for the Residential Property Fund.
Receiving reports from senior 
management on trading, 
business performance, 
financing, acquisitions and 
key operational projects. 
Risk management and 
accountability controls
Discussing risk management 
and internal control processes 
and reviewing key risk areas, 
including recommendations 
from external assurance 
reports received.
Discussion and challenge to the 
Group risk register and related 
heat map recording concluded 
during the year.
Reviewing and approving the 
Group’s regulatory results 
announcements and 
annual report.
Governance structures Approving the new chairman’s 
appointment and deputy 
chairman’s role.
Discussion of Board composition 
and approving the appointment 
of a new chief executive officer 
and three new non-executive 
directors.
Approving and implementation 
of corporate governance 
arrangements and policies.
Oversight of operational 
aspects of the Group
Approving the annual budget, 
the business plan for the Group 
and material acquisition or 
capital expenditure projects.
Receiving update reports on 
and discussing the Group’s 
human resources, marketing 
and commercial initiatives.
Receiving reports on the IT 
transformation project and 
monitoring implementation 
and pace of change.
The Board retains control of key decisions and has put in place a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval. The roles 
of chairman and chief executive are separated, clearly defined and approved by the Board. A copy of matters reserved for Board approval and 
the division of responsibilities between the roles of the chairman and the chief executive is available to view on the corporate governance 
section of the Company’s website at: www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/corporate-governance. These documents are also accompanied 
by the terms of reference for each of the three Board committees listed below. 
The Board delegates matters to the three Board committees, identified below, in line with their terms of reference and the formal schedule 
of matters reserved for Board approval. Further information on the work of these committees during the year can be found in each of their 
separate reports following this corporate governance introduction. The Board delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved 
by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the executive directors. 
The directors’ attendance at the scheduled Board meetings and Board committee meetings is shown in the table opposite. Attendance is expressed 
as the number of meetings that each director attended out of the number they were eligible to attend as Chairmen or Committee members 
(ie excluding attendance where this was by invitation only). ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 45
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Director Date of appointment
Board
meetings
Audit and Risk 
Committee 
meetings
Nomination 
Committee 
meetings
Remuneration 
Committee 
meetings
Grenville Turner 19 February 2013 9/9 — — —
Alison Platt 1 September 2014 2/2 — — —
Jim Clarke 28 December 2012 9/9 — — —
Caleb Kramer* 19 February 2013 6/9 — — —
David Watson 2 September 2013 9/9 4/4 2/2 4/4
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 9/9 4/4 2/2 4/4
Richard Adam 9 June 2014 4/4 2/2 — 2/2
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 4/4 2/2 — 2/2
Rupert Gavin* 25 June 2014 3/4 — — 1/2
Sandra Turner 18 March 2013; resigned 9 June 2014 5/5 2/2 1/2 2/2
*  Caleb Kramer was engaged in various overseas activities which meant that his attendance was intermittent. Rupert Gavin was also absent from one Board and one Remuneration 
Committee meeting due to commitments made prior to his appointment as a director.
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover for its directors and officers. The Company has made qualifying third 
party indemnity provisions (as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors during the year; these provisions remain in 
force at the date of this report.
Independence
The Code notes that the Board should identify in the annual report each non-executive director that it considers to be independent. Each of the 
non-executive directors is considered to be independent, with the exception of:
• 
Caleb Kramer as he holds the position of managing director at Oaktree Capital Management (UK) LLP, a substantial shareholder of the 
Company; and
• 
Grenville Turner as he was an employee of the Company in his role as chief executive officer and became chairman on 1 September 2014. 
In addition, he retains an interest in the performance of the Company through unvested long term incentive plans (detailed in the remuneration 
report on page 63).
The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board 
to be independent. Since, excluding the chairman, there are five (of a possible six) non-executive directors determined to be independent 
and two executive directors, the Board now complies with recommendation B.1.2. Similarly, the composition of the three Board Committees 
complies in all respects with the independence provisions of the Code.
Shareholder engagement
As chairman, I ensure that views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole and offer non-executive directors the opportunity 
to attend discussions with major shareholders. David Watson, as senior independent director, attends a significant number of these meetings 
to ensure that he develops a balanced understanding of any issues arising and can provide context back to the Board Committees (as he sits 
on all three Committees). 
We actively seek channels through which to engage with investors and during 2014 the Company undertook a wide variety of investor relations 
activities. Institutional shareholders represent the largest group of shareholders and much of the activity is focused on this group. The chief 
executive officer and chief financial officer host or attend the majority of the events held, whilst key senior executives also participate in 
meetings and activities with institutional shareholders.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board. The prime means of communication with the majority of our shareholders is via the 
interim and annual reports, supplemented by interim management statements, which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding 
of the Group’s activities and results. General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the interim 
and annual results.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees at the AGM, where all directors will be in attendance. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM. Shareholders wishing 
to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do so by writing to the company secretary 
at the registered address given on page 123. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
46 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Report of the Nomination Committee
Dear shareholder
I became chairman of the Nomination 
Committee with effect from 1 September 2014 
and would like to thank my predecessor, 
David Watson, for his leadership of the 
Committee during a period of significant 
transformation of the Board.
2014 saw the Committee focus on Board 
and Board Committee composition and 
succession planning, resulting in a number 
of new appointments to the Board and 
changes to Board Committee membership. 
These included my own move to chairman; 
the appointment of a new chief executive 
officer; and the appointment of three 
independent non-executive directors including 
a new Chair for the Audit and Risk Committee.
Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for ensuring 
that the composition of the Board and its 
Committees is appropriate and enables them 
to function effectively. This requires evaluation 
of the balance of skills, experience, knowledge 
and diversity and the resultant identification 
of any gaps, either in the short, medium or 
longer term, and recommendations to address 
these. Succession planning for key Board 
positions forms part of our wider remit and 
as such we have insight into the Group’s 
Leadership and Development Programme.
We are also responsible for agreeing the 
annual Board effectiveness review process 
and monitoring any actions arising.
Committee composition
The membership of the Committee, together 
with appointment date, is set out below:
Member
Nomination Committee 
member since
Grenville Turner 
(chairman) 1 September 2014
Caleb Kramer 19 February 2013
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013
David Watson 2 September 2013
Richard Adam 9 June 2014
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
The composition of the Committee changed 
during the period with Sandra Turner resigning 
from the Board and Committee in June 2014, 
and the appointment of Richard Adam, 
Rupert Gavin and Jane Lighting in the same 
month. We thus remained in full compliance 
with the Code recommendation that a 
majority of members should be independent 
non-executive directors throughout the period.
Attendance by members at the meetings 
is shown on page 45.
The Committee’s work
The Committee held two formal meetings 
during 2014 which were held to debate the 
Company’s appointment of a new chairman, 
a new Chief Executive and also new 
non-executive directors. The main matters 
that the Committee considered during the 
year are described below.
Board and Committee composition 
As described above, the Board went through 
a period of significant refreshment during 
2014, with four new directors having joined 
and one having resigned. 
The first matter considered by the Committee 
in their meeting in January 2014 was around 
my ongoing involvement in the business. 
Obviously at this point I was not a member 
of the Committee and so was not a party 
to these discussions or the decision 
making process. 
Given the Code provision that a chief 
executive officer should not go on to be 
chairman of the same company and should 
be independent on appointment (A.3.1 and 
B.1.1 respectively), the Board consulted at 
length with major shareholders in advance 
of the proposed appointment. A lengthy 
Board debate of pros and cons was also 
recorded, along with consideration of skills 
and experience against the job specification 
and assessment of available time and required 
commitment. The final consensus reached 
was that the best option to protect and 
enhance shareholder value, and to allow us 
to consider a wider talent pool in the search 
for a new chief executive officer was to offer 
the position to me. This was agreed with the 
following conditions:
• 
that the appointment to chairman would 
be for a limited period of up to two years, 
to provide a period of continuity in the 
business prior to appointing an 
independent chairman; 
• 
that David Watson be appointed to a newly 
created position of deputy chairman which 
would provide enhanced independent 
oversight; 
• 
that as a result there would be a strong 
preference for the new chief executive 
officer to be an external appointment; and
• 
that the Committee acknowledged that 
there would need to be considerable 
effort and focus by the Board to ensure 
that the documented separation of roles 
and responsibilities between chairman and 
chief executive officer was upheld and that 
collectively they enabled both appointments 
to have the space and confidence to fulfil 
their responsibilities.
In light of the discussion held which concluded 
my own appointment, no use was made by 
the Nomination Committee of an external 
search agency or open advertising for the 
appointment of chairman.
In light of my decision to step down as 
chief executive officer and take on the role 
of non-executive chairman, the Committee 
considered the skills and experience desired 
in my successor and prepared a candidate 
profile. Following a number of interviews and 
presentations by short-listed suppliers, the 
Committee appointed an independent 
search and selection agency, Lygon Group, 
to assist in the search for suitable candidates. 
Lygon Group had no prior connection with 
the Group. A list of candidates, both internal 
and external to the Group, was presented 
to the non-executive directors and me for 
discussion. Following interview by Lygon, 
this was reduced to a short-list of candidates 
who were initially interviewed by members of 
the Committee (David Watson and Cathy T urner) 
and also interviewed by me as the incumbent 
chief executive officer. A final shorter list 
of preferred candidates were then taken 
through an independent capability assessment 
performed by Spencer Stuart, an executive 
search consulting firm, using proprietary tools.
The Committee’s terms of reference 
are available at:  
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 47
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Based upon a combination of the feedback 
from all of the interviewers, the skills and 
capability assessments and references 
taken, the Committee, with me in attendance, 
met to agree the preferred candidate 
and proposed remuneration terms. The 
remuneration terms were formulated using 
independent data provided to the Committee 
by New Bridge Street (advisors to the 
Remuneration Committee).
The Committee appointed an independent 
search and selection agency, Egon Zehnder, 
to assist in the identification of suitable 
non-executive candidates to join the 
Board and achieve full Code compliance. 
In making recommendations to the Board, 
the Committee specifically considered the 
existing non-executive experience and skill 
sets and the desirable experience in suitable 
candidates. In particular the Committee sought 
candidates with commercial, retail and 
technology skills. The Committee chairman 
led the selection process interviewing a 
selection of short-listed candidates and 
proposing a narrower list of possible appointees 
to be interviewed by the remainder of the 
Board. Following these interviews, the 
chairman made recommendations to the 
Board based upon the consensus expressed 
by all interviewers.
The Company believes that diversity of 
experience and approach, including gender 
diversity, amongst Board members is of great 
importance and it is the Company’s policy to 
give careful consideration to issues of Board 
balance and diversity when making new 
appointments. The search for candidates and 
any subsequent appointments are, therefore, 
made purely on merit regardless of gender, 
race, religion, age or disability. Given our 
commitment to appointing the best people 
and ensuring that all employees have an equal 
chance of developing their careers within the 
Group, we do not think it is appropriate to set 
targets for Board appointments. As gender 
diversity remains a topic of significant 
discussion, we note that three of the nine 
members of our Board are female. In addition 
to Board diversity, we believe in promoting 
diversity at all levels of the organisation and 
further details of our workforce diversity are 
set out on page 38.
Following appointment to the Board, all directors 
received a tailored induction programme, 
providing an opportunity to gain an 
understanding of the Group business and 
organisation, operations and governance 
environment, allowing them maximise 
their contributions to the Board as quickly 
as possible. Key stages of the induction 
programme are: provision of documents in 
relation to the Board, strategy, performance 
and corporate governance; meetings with 
the executive directors to gain an overview 
of the business, current trading and key 
commercial issues; meetings with other 
directors and senior executives to discuss 
commercial issues and projects; and site visits, 
as required, to key locations to gain an 
understanding of the business and operations.
All directors are also offered subsequent 
training to suit their needs and continuous 
professional development requirements. 
All directors also have access to the advice 
and services of the company secretary in 
addition to access to independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense where they 
judge it necessary to discharge their duties 
as directors.
Board effectiveness 
A formal internal evaluation of the performance 
of the Board, its Committees, the directors 
and the chairman has been conducted in 
the period under review. Given the changes 
in the Board composition during the year, it 
was determined that this would be undertaken 
by an internal questionnaire process. For 
the Board itself, this process was led by the 
chairman and included separate discussions 
with each director as required to follow up 
on specific feedback and is supported on an 
ongoing basis by the practice of the chairman 
meeting with the non-executive directors, 
without the executive directors being present, 
following each Board meeting. In respect of 
evaluation of the performance of the chairman, 
this was conducted by the deputy chairman 
by discussion with each of the non-executive 
directors without the chairman or executive 
directors being present. For the Board 
Committees the process was collated 
by the company secretary and responses 
and actions were discussed and agreed 
at their respective committees. 
The Board intends to undertake an externally 
facilitated exercise in the final quarter of 2015 
at which time the current Board memberships 
will have been in operation for a full year 
and will thus provide a well grounded 
base of experience to enable an effective 
discussion of opportunities to improve Board 
effectiveness. This will also comply with the 
Code recommendation for triennial external 
evaluation. Further details of the process and 
recommendations of the externally facilitated 
evaluation will be provided in our 2015 
annual report.
Following the internal performance evaluation 
conducted during the period, I am pleased 
to confirm the effective performance of 
each non-executive director and the time 
commitment of each non-executive director. 
I am therefore confident that each of them 
would be in a position to discharge their 
duties to the Company in the coming year and, 
accordingly, as detailed in the notice of the 
AGM, all directors will stand for re-election.
Grenville Turner
Chair of the Nomination Committee
26 February 2015
2014 saw the Committee 
focus on Board and Board 
Committee composition 
and succession planning, 
resulting in a number of new 
appointments to the Board CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
48 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
Dear shareholder
I became chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee with effect from 1 August 2014, 
having been a member since joining the 
Countrywide Board as an independent 
non-executive director on 9 June 2014. 
I would like to thank my predecessor, 
David Watson, for his assured leadership of 
the Committee and continued membership.
The Committee’s role is to assist the 
Board in fulfilling its financial oversight 
responsibilities by:
• 
assessing the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting and satisfying itself that 
any significant financial judgements made 
by management are sound;
• 
evaluating the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control 
processes; and
• 
scrutinising the activities, performance, 
independence and effectiveness of 
the auditor. 
This report describes how the Committee 
discharged its responsibilities over the last 
year, setting out the key tasks and major 
areas of activity undertaken. The assurance 
framework required by the Committee is 
provided by complementary contributions 
from management reports, internal and 
external audit reports, and from risk 
management and compliance reports. 
However, as chairman of the Committee 
I have also held meetings with both the 
Company’s internal and external auditors, 
the chief financial officer (CFO) and senior 
members of the Group finance department, 
and other senior executives in which key 
issues relevant to the Committee’s work  
were discussed.
In light of the industry developments in 
respect of historic professional indemnity 
provision increases, and our own detailed 
year-end review of claims data resulting 
in a £15.2 million exceptional charge, the 
Committee has reviewed and provided 
robust challenge to the documentation and 
initial conclusions reached by management. 
The second half of 2014 was always seen 
as a key period in assessing this issue as the 
six year primary statutory limitation period 
came to an end. It is disappointing to see 
that high levels of claims continue to be an 
issue across the industry, with an unexpected 
level of claims brought about under common 
law outside of the primary statutory limitation 
period rather than under contract law. 
However, changes to the claim rate, claim 
liability rate and average loss per claim will 
remain a regular topic for discussion, as they 
have been at each Committee meeting this 
year, to ensure that appropriate independent 
oversight and governance are evidenced.
I will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about 
the work of the Committee.
Richard Adam
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
26 February 2015
Professional indemnity 
provisions will remain a 
regular topic for discussion, 
as they have been at each 
committee meeting this 
year, to ensure that 
appropriate independent 
oversight and governance 
are evidenced
The Committee’s terms of reference 
are available at:  
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 49
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
How the Audit and Risk Committee works
Committee composition
The membership of the Committee, together 
with appointment date, is set out below:
Member
Audit and Risk Committee  
member since
Richard Adam 
(chairman) 9 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013
David Watson 2 September 2013
The composition of the Committee changed 
during the period with Sandra Turner resigning 
from the Board and Committee in June 2014, 
and the simultaneous appointment of 
Richard Adam and Jane Lighting, but 
remained in full compliance with the Code 
recommendation of a minimum of three 
independent non-executive directors 
throughout the period.
The Code requires at least one member 
of the Committee to have recent and relevant 
financial experience. Two members of the 
Committee (Richard Adam and David Watson) 
are considered by the Board to have 
competence in accounting and recent and 
relevant financial experience. Both have 
professional qualifications with the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of England and 
Wales. The biography of each member of 
the Committee is set out on pages 42 to 43.
Attendance by members at the meetings 
is shown on page 45. Meetings were held 
at key times within the reporting and audit 
calendar and were also attended by the 
chief financial officer, Group financial controller, 
Group finance manager, the company secretary, 
the head of internal audit and the Company’s 
external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC). In addition, internal risk management 
and compliance representatives and other 
advisors to the Company were invited to attend. 
The Committee held regular private sessions 
with both the external and internal auditors 
which were not attended by management.
The Committee’s work
The Committee has an annual work plan, 
developed from its terms of reference, with 
standing items that the Committee considers 
at each meeting in addition to any matters 
that arise during the year. In addition to its 
annual performance evaluation, the Committee 
carried out a review of its terms of reference 
to align with best practice.
The agendas for the four scheduled meetings 
of the Committee during 2014 were organised 
around the Company’s reporting schedule. 
The chairman of the Committee reports at each 
subsequent Board meeting on the business of 
the Committee meeting and recommendations 
made by the Committee. The main matters 
that the Committee considered during the 
year are described below.
Financial reporting and significant 
judgements
Financial reporting
The Board and the Committee have reviewed 
this annual report, the half year financial 
statements, as well as the going concern 
basis of preparation of the Group’ s consolidated 
financial statements at these points, in particular 
the underlying assumptions and sensitivities.
We considered the presentation of the financial 
statements and, in particular, the compliance 
with financial reporting and disclosure 
requirements associated with premium 
listing. In respect of each of these matters, 
the Committee reviewed papers presented 
by management and discussed critical 
judgements and estimates inherent within 
the conclusions, providing challenge where 
necessary. The Committee also reviewed the 
reporting from the external auditor, 
incorporating accounting and reporting 
matters, internal control findings and their 
management representation letter to ensure 
that all these matters had been considered 
and consistent conclusions had been reached.
The Committee assesses whether suitable 
accounting policies have been adopted and 
whether management have made appropriate 
estimates and judgements. The Committee also 
considered the Group’s existing tax strategy 
and concluded that management’s current 
approach to tax remained appropriate.
At the request of the Board, the Committee 
also considered whether the 2014 annual 
report was fair, balanced and understandable 
and whether it provided the necessary 
information for the shareholders to assess 
Countrywide’s performance, business model 
and strategy. The Committee took into account 
its own knowledge of the Group, its strategy 
and performance in the year; internal 
verification of the factual content within the 
document; comprehensive reviews undertaken 
at different levels in the Group to ensure 
consistency and overall balance; and detailed 
review by senior management and the external 
auditors. After careful review and consideration 
of all relevant information, the Committee was 
satisfied that, taken as a whole, the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable 
and has affirmed that view to the full Board. 
After careful review and 
consideration of all relevant 
information, the Committee 
was satisfied that, taken as 
a whole, the annual report 
is fair, balanced and 
understandable and has 
affirmed that view to the 
full Board CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
50 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued
Financial reporting and significant judgements continued
Financial reporting continued
Accounting judgements and estimates
In the year under review, the Committee considered the following significant matters, which include an element of judgement, in relation 
to the financial statements:
Matter Action the Committee has taken
Professional indemnity provisions We reviewed the methodology and resultant professional indemnity provision prepared 
by management and regularly compared the emerging pattern of settled claims to assess 
whether the methodology and assumptions were appropriate. 
Where management have updated their financial models to reflect the latest inputs and trends, 
and to accommodate aged claims where there is limited prior experience on which to statistically 
model outcome, as well as taking into account available information in respect of all open 
claims we have provided robust challenge to any underlying assumptions adopted in respect 
of claim rates, claim liability rates, average loss per claim and provisions on discrete cases 
of significance based on current legal advice.
The Committee concluded that the methodology and assumptions adopted were reasonable, 
but note that evaluating these potential liabilities is highly judgemental and in smaller populations 
of claims, including older more complex cases, estimates can be significantly affected by the 
outcome, good or bad, of a limited number of claims. Accordingly additional sensitivity 
disclosures have been provided in note 3.
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles  
with an indefinite life
We reviewed discounted cash flows and sensitivities prepared by management, discussing 
assumptions adopted, and concurred that a prudent approach underpinned the conclusion 
of no impairment being required. 
Acquisition accounting We reviewed a management paper summarising the acquisitions undertaken during the year. 
These all followed existing models and methodologies in relation to the valuation of intangible 
assets. We were satisfied with the fair value accounting approach and intangible asset 
valuations proposed by management.
Accounting treatment of transactions  
in relation to Zoopla Property Group plc
Due to the potential complexities of the transactions, we reviewed a management paper 
summarising the transactions undertaken during the year in relation to Zoopla shares held 
and the impact of the: 
• 
sub-division of existing equity shares held at the point of the restructuring 
of Zoopla Property Group Limited;
• 
warrants arising on the signing of a new agreement in March 2014 and crystallising 
additional shares at the point of the Zoopla IPO;
• 
treatment of the deferred income arising on the agreement, spread to release as income 
over the underlying three year period 2016–18 of the revised contract;
• 
purchase of additional shares under a members’ subscription agreement on the Zoopla IPO;
• 
disposal of a proportion of the shares at the point of the Zoopla IPO; and
• 
application of 31 December share price to the valuation of remaining shares held  
at the year end.
We were satisfied that the transactions, as well as the straightforward mark-to-market  
at the year end, were calculated and disclosed and appropriately.
Share-based payments We reviewed the methodology and conclusion presented by management in relation 
to the various share-based payment arrangements, notably in relation to the IPO plan 
vesting in March 2015. The assumptions made were reviewed and agreed as reasonable. 
For more detail in respect of share-based incentives and valuation methodologies see note 27. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 51
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
The accounting treatment of all significant 
issues and judgements was subject to 
review by the external auditors. For further 
information on the critical accounting estimates 
and assumptions refer to the notes of the 
consolidated financial statements on page 86. 
For a discussion of the areas of particular audit 
focus by the auditors, refer to page 73 of the 
independent auditor’s report.
Risk management and internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control, including its risk 
management procedures, and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. This has been designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of 
any failure to achieve its strategic objectives. 
It can provide reasonable, rather than absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. The Board’s approach to risk management 
is supported by an oversight structure, as 
detailed on page 19, which includes 
the Committee.
The Board has an ongoing process to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks faced 
by the Group. This was in place throughout 
the year and up to the date of the approval 
of the annual report. This process is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and accords with the 
T urnbull guidance. Management is responsible 
for the identification and evaluation of significant 
risks applicable to its areas of the business 
together with the design, operation and 
monitoring of suitable controls. These risks 
are assessed on a continual basis at divisional 
Board meetings and updated accordingly 
in the Group risk register.
In addition, the Committee and the Board 
reviewed the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems, 
including the financial, operational and 
compliance controls. This was primarily 
achieved by:
• 
reviewing the reporting from the Group 
Risk and Compliance Committee arising 
from its update to the Group’s risk register 
through liaison with each of the divisions, 
update to the control risk assessments and 
the resultant residual risk map reporting to 
ensure that this aligned with the Board’s 
risk appetite;
• 
reviewing control findings from the internal 
audit team, which reports to the chief 
financial officer but has direct access to 
the chief executive and chairman of the 
Committee. Internal audit carries out audits 
to assess the adequacy and effectiveness 
of internal controls over the key risks faced 
by the business and reports its findings 
to management and the Committee. 
The internal audit programme of work is 
presented to and approved by the Committee 
on an annual basis, and updated on a rolling 
basis as required.
  Where the programme of internal audit 
work is revised, pre-approval from the 
Committee is required and consideration 
of amendments to resourcing requirements 
is also made. During January 2015 an 
initial six month agreement was signed 
with Deloitte to outsource internal audit 
capability under the guidance of the head 
of internal audit and his team. Following 
completion of this initial contract period, 
further consideration will be given to 
potential extensions of the agreement;
• 
reviewing the recommendations to 
improve the system of internal control 
arising from the internal audit team. The 
implementation of these recommendations 
is followed up and reported on at each 
quarterly Committee meeting;
• 
reviewing the recommendations arising 
from an initial high level review of the risk 
and governance structure undertaken by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) during 
the period;
• 
reviewing annually the Group’s system of 
internal control. This includes a summary of 
key risks and associated controls and a report 
from the internal audit team on its work;
• 
monitoring the risks and associated 
controls over the financial reporting 
processes, including the process by 
which the Group’s financial statements 
are prepared for publication;
• 
reviewing reports from the external auditor 
on any issues identified during the course 
of its work, including a report on control 
weaknesses identified; and
• 
a process of internal control sign-off is used 
in the Group where directors are required to 
detail completion of the Group risk register 
(and associated control documentation) 
and certify that controls are in operation 
to ensure that the control environment 
is appropriate. They confirm annually 
in writing that risk management process 
and appropriate controls are in place 
and operating effectively.
During 2015 an initial 
six month agreement 
was signed with Deloitte 
to outsource internal 
audit capability CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
52 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued
Risk management and internal control 
continued
No material failings or weaknesses were 
identified during the review of the risk 
management and internal control system. 
The Committee has also reviewed  
whistle-blowing arrangements allowing 
employees to raise concerns on a 
confidential basis and ensures that 
investigation of any whistle-blowing 
incidents is undertaken.
Oversight of the external audit 
The Committee’s oversight of the external 
auditor includes reviewing and approving the 
annual plan. In reviewing the plan, the 
Committee discuss and challenge the 
auditor’s assessment of materiality and 
financial reporting risk areas most likely 
to give rise to material error. 
PwC reported to the Board and confirmed its 
independence in accordance with ethical 
standards and that it had maintained 
appropriate internal safeguards to ensure 
their independence and objectivity. PwC 
operates a five year rotation policy for audit 
partners for a listed entity and, as a result of 
this being his final year of signing the audit 
report, the current engagement partner will 
rotate off during 2015. His successor has been 
introduced to the Committee and attended 
year-end clearance meetings within the Group, 
culminating in the February Committee meeting, 
to allow a smooth transition.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and 
are, subject to controls by management that 
have been agreed by the Committee to monitor 
and maintain the objectivity and independence 
of the external auditor. A copy of the non-audit 
services policy is available on our website at 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance, providing details of 
prohibited, audit-related and permitted services. 
The policy requires approval by the Chief 
Financial Officer of any work undertaken by 
PwC and mandates Committee approval, 
prior to the commencement of work, of all 
non-audit assignments with an individual 
fee above a de minimis threshold of £50,000, 
or going beyond an aggregate annual spend 
of £100,000.
The total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid 
to PwC during the year is set out in the table 
below. In order to maintain its independence 
and objectivity, PwC undertook its standard 
independence procedures in relation to these 
engagements. The Committee received a 
report at each meeting from management 
and PwC regarding the extent of non-audit 
services performed.
Matter
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Audit-related assurance services 44 44
IPO fees (including £54,000 of subsequent remuneration advice) — 1,054
Tax advisory services 60 48
Due diligence on acquisition targets 97 152
Review of risk and governance structure 19 —
Access to PwC inform 1 —
Non-audit fees 221 1,254
Audit fees (excluding audit-related assurance services) 556 501
A copy of our non-audit services 
policy is available on our website at:
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 53
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Amounts paid to PwC were reported to and 
considered by the Committee. Non-audit 
fees incurred in 2014 represent 40% of the 
recurring base audit fee, falling below the 
70% cap set by the European Union) and 
will remain subject to scrutiny and approval 
by the Committee. 
We also adopted a formal framework to conduct 
our review of the effectiveness of the external 
audit process and audit quality and applied 
this to the completion of the 2014 Group 
audit cycle. The framework takes the form 
of an annual questionnaire covering all key 
aspects of the audit, including the effectiveness 
of contribution of divisional and Group 
management to the audit process, and is 
completed by each member of the Committee 
and by the chief financial officer. Feedback 
is also sought from other members of the 
Group finance team, divisional management 
and the head of internal audit. Based on 
responses to the questionnaires, management 
produces a report for detailed consideration 
by the Committee. The feedback from this 
process is considered by the Committee and 
is provided to the auditor and to management, 
with action plans developed accordingly and 
reviewed by the Committee. In addition, the 
Committee consider the findings of the Audit 
Quality Review team’s report into the conduct 
of PwC audits generally.
In its evaluation of the external audit function, 
the Committee concluded that it was satisfied 
with the work of PwC and that PwC continued 
to be effective, objective and independent. 
Accordingly, the Committee recommended 
to the Board the reappointment of PwC and 
for this to be put forward to shareholders 
at the 2015 AGM. At the Annual General 
Meeting in 2014, 97.24% of votes cast by 
shareholders were in favour of reappointing 
PwC as auditor.
The Code requires that the external audit 
contract should be put out to tender at least 
every ten years. As PwC was appointed as 
auditor to the Company in 2007, and has not 
been subject to a re-tender for the contract 
since then, the Committee intend to put the 
contract out to tender during 2017. However, 
we may put the audit out to tender at any 
time before a regulatory retendering date if 
we were to conclude that this is in the Group’s 
interest. There are no contractual obligations 
restricting our choice of external auditor and 
no auditor liability agreement has been 
entered into.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
issued The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 
(‘the Order’) in September 2014. Whilst this 
first applies to financial years beginning on 
or after 1 January 2015 we have chosen to 
make a statement of compliance with the 
provisions of the Order in the current year 
as follows:
• 
the last competitive tender process for an 
auditor appointment was undertaken in 2007 
and resulted in the appointment of PwC; 
• 
the Company proposes that it will complete 
the next competitive tender process during 
2017, which is deemed to be in the best 
interest of the shareholders in order to 
allow full consideration of and preparation 
for the tender process;
• 
the statutory audit fee and the scope of 
the statutory audit have been approved 
between the Audit and Risk Committee 
and the auditor;
• 
the Committee has influenced the 
appointment of the successor to the current 
audit engagement partner and only it has 
concluded on his progression in the role, 
permitting this without recourse to 
a competitive tender process;
• 
only the Committee will initiate and 
supervise the planned competitive tender 
process and make recommendations to 
the Board in respect of any subsequent 
auditor appointments; and
• 
the Committee authorises, prior to the 
commencement of work, the provision of 
non-audit services by the incumbent auditor 
subject to a pre-approval of permitted 
non-audit services with an individual fee 
above a de minimis threshold of £50,000, 
or going beyond an aggregate annual 
spend of £100,000 (full details of the 
policy are available on our website at 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
54 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Directors’ remuneration report
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
our directors’ remuneration report for the year 
ended 31 December 2014. I hope that you 
find this report informative about how we 
remunerate and incentivise our directors 
through a remuneration policy that is supportive 
of, and aligned to, the Company’s strategic 
aims and objectives. The policy, approved at 
the AGM last year, continues to be appropriate 
and therefore there has been no change to the 
policy from the prior year. Two new independent 
directors have joined this Committee during 
2014, further strengthening the capability 
and competence of the Committee.
2014 performance and reward
In 2014, Countrywide has reported strong 
results and has delivered sustainable returns 
and growth for our shareholders as shown in 
the graphs at the bottom of this page.
Remuneration is weighted towards variable 
pay, dependent on performance. This ensures 
that there is a clear link between the value 
created for shareholders and the amount 
paid to our executive directors. Performance 
is assessed against a range of financial 
and longer term returns, ensuring value is 
delivered to shareholders and participants 
are rewarded for the delivery of the key 
strategic objectives of the Group, specifically 
growth and returns on a sustained basis. 
In addition, assessment of qualitative measures 
and personal contributions are considered 
as well as financial outturn in determining 
annual bonuses.
The key remuneration outcomes for 2014 were:
• 
67% of maximum annual bonus, reflecting 
the strong financial performance and the 
continued growth and development of 
the Group; and
• 
83% vesting of IPO options based on 
EBITDA performance over the period 
ended 31 December 2014. The IPO 
options relate to a pre-IPO management 
incentive plan which was rolled over, 
rather than the normal approach of 
crystallising value at IPO, in order to retain 
and incentivise the management team to 
deliver earnings growth and shareholder 
return post-IPO. In considering the vesting 
level, the Committee increased the 
performance targets to reflect the benefit 
to EBITDA from material acquisitions during 
the performance period. For executive 
directors participating in the plan 50% of 
awards are expected to vest in March 2015 
with the remainder vesting in March 2016.
Executive director changes during 2014
During the year under review, the Committee 
spent time considering the remuneration 
implications of Grenville Turner’s appointment 
as non-executive chairman and the appointment 
of a new chief executive officer. 
In respect of Grenville Turner, who stepped 
down as chief executive officer and became 
non-executive chairman on 1 September 2014, 
the Committee agreed that he should receive 
his base salary and benefits and a pro-rated 
annual bonus, paid at the normal post-year 
end payment date. Outstanding share awards 
will continue to vest based on their original 
terms. Since his appointment as non-executive 
chairman, he has received a fee of £150,000 
per annum.
Alison Platt was appointed chief executive 
officer from 1 September 2014 on a package 
consistent with the approved remuneration 
policy, comprising a base salary of £575,000, 
a 15% of salary supplement in respect of 
pension, annual bonus potential of up to 
120% of base salary (with a third deferred 
into shares) and a 150% of salary LTIP award. 
In addition, Alison Platt was compensated 
for lost incentives in respect of leaving her 
previous employment in accordance with the 
remuneration policy approved at the 2013 
AGM. Further details are provided in the 
annual report on remuneration. 
Remuneration policy for 2015
The Committee regularly reviews the 
remuneration policy to ensure it is transparent 
and aligned to the interests of shareholders; 
is weighted to incentivise sustainable 
performance; is structured to ensure higher 
rewards are only achieved for exceptional 
performance against challenging targets 
and encourages an appropriate level of risk 
taking commensurate with the risk profile 
of the business. The Committee’s most 
recent conclusions are that the existing 
remuneration policy remains appropriate 
and should continue to operate for 2015. 
The Committee’s terms of reference 
are available at:  
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-
relations/corporate-governance
1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items, management fee, share-based payments and share of profits from joint venture, referred to hereafter as ‘EBITDA’ .
2  Adjusted earnings is calculated on profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and share-based payments (net of taxation impact).
3 Including proposed final dividend, net per share.
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m)
 121.1
+40%
2013 86.6
13 14 13 14
Adjusted basic EPS
2
 (p)
36.7
+50%
2013 24.4
Total dividends
3
 (p)
24.0
+200%
2013 8.0 13 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 55
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Remuneration policy report
The key points to note are as follows:
• 
base salary levels, benefits and pension 
provision are considered to be at 
appropriate levels;
• 
the structure and quantum of the annual 
bonus, with one third of any award 
deferred into shares, continues to work 
well. As such, the 2015 annual bonus 
framework will remain largely consistent 
with the 2014 annual bonus; and
• 
the long term incentive grant policy, whereby 
nil-cost awards are granted annually with 
vesting based on earnings per share 
(two-thirds) and relative total shareholder 
return (one-third) performance conditions 
and continued service, provides a strong 
alignment between the senior executive 
team and shareholders. Grant levels and 
performance targets for LTIP awards to 
be granted in 2015 are expected to be 
consistent with the normal grant policy.
The Committee believes that the current 
remuneration policy continues to incentivise 
the delivery of strong yet sustainable financial 
results and the creation of shareholder value. 
Further details on how the policy will be 
applied in practice for the 2015 financial 
year are set out in the annual report on 
remuneration on page 60.
Shareholder support
Under the new voting regime, two resolutions 
were put to shareholders at our first AGM 
on 30 April 2014. The Committee was 
delighted to receive positive support 
from the shareholders who voted on our 
remuneration policy (92%) and our 2013 
remuneration report (the annual statement 
and annual report on remuneration) (99%). 
We remain committed to ongoing engagement 
with our shareholders and take an active 
interest in their views and voting on this 
remuneration report.
Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
26 February 2015
Introduction
With effect from its approval on 30 April 2014 
at the Company’s first AGM, this policy report 
sets out the framework that will shape the 
Company’s remuneration strategy for an 
anticipated period of three years, ensuring 
that the structure and levels of executive 
remuneration continue to remain appropriate 
for the Company. 
The following section explains: 
• 
our remuneration strategy and policy; 
• 
how this strategy is reinforced by 
alignment of key components of our 
remuneration packages; 
• 
why we have selected the performance 
criteria for variable pay; and 
• 
other information required to provide the 
wider Group context for the directors’ 
service agreements. 
Remuneration strategy
Our remuneration strategy is underpinned by 
remuneration packages that are designed to 
motivate high performing people to deliver 
our strategy. These packages: 
• 
are transparent and aligned with the 
interest of our shareholders; 
• 
are weighted to incentivise performance 
over the short and long term; 
• 
are structured to ensure higher rewards are 
only achieved for exceptional performance 
against challenging targets; and 
• 
encourage management to adopt a level 
of risk commensurate with the risk profile 
of the business as approved by the Board.
Statement of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Company
The remuneration policy described within 
this report provides an overview of the 
structure that operates for the most senior 
executives in the Group. The remuneration 
policy for the executive directors is more 
heavily weighted towards variable pay than 
for other employees to make a greater part 
of their pay conditional on the successful 
delivery of the business strategy.
This aims to create a clear link between 
the value created for shareholders and the 
remuneration received by the executive 
directors. When setting the policy for 
remuneration for the executive directors the 
Committee takes into account the overall 
approach to reward for employees in the Group, 
including consideration of salary increases 
for the general employee population 
(disclosed in the annual report each year); 
overall spend on annual bonus; Group-wide 
benefit offerings; and any other relevant 
factors as determined by the Committee.
Although the Company has not carried out 
a formal employee consultation regarding 
Board remuneration (policy or implementation), 
in accordance with prevailing commercial 
practice, it does comply with regulations and 
practices regarding employee consultation 
more broadly. The Group head of human 
resources ensures that the Committee is 
made aware of any relevant employee 
feedback regarding the Company’s 
remuneration policy. 
Further information about our engagement 
with employees across the Group is provided 
within our corporate responsibility report on 
page 38.
Statement of consideration 
of shareholder views
The Company welcomes dialogue with its 
significant shareholders and, in the event that 
material changes to the policy are proposed, 
will consult with major shareholders and 
representative bodies in advance of changes 
being made.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
56 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Summary remuneration policy
The remuneration policy continues to be appropriate and therefore there has been no change to policy from the prior year. 
The key components of the remuneration packages offered to our directors are as follows:
Future policy table
Component Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity Applicable performance measure
Salary and fees
• 
To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation  
of high performing people
• 
To reflect their experience and importance  
to the business
• 
Fixed annual sum normally payable monthly and reviewed annually
• 
Review reflects changes in scope of role and responsibility, personal 
and Group performance, increases throughout the rest of business
• 
Salary of newly appointed directors may be phased to take account  
of experience
• 
The maximum annual salary increase will not 
normally exceed the average increase which  
applies across the wider workforce
• 
The Committee is guided by the general increase  
for the broader employee population but may decide 
to award a lower increase or a higher increase  
for executive directors to recognise, for example,  
an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility  
of the role, to apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed director and/or to take account of relevant 
market movements
• 
n/a
Benefits
• 
To provide support and protection and the ability  
to focus on effective delivery
• 
Benefits currently include company car allowance, private  
medical insurance and life assurance. Other benefits may be  
provided where appropriate
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Annual bonuses
• 
To incentivise the delivery of stretching short 
term business targets and strategic and/or  
personal objectives
• 
To recognise performance through variable 
remuneration, allowing flexible control of the 
cost base and response to market conditions
• 
All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the Committee  
at the beginning of the year and payments determined after the year 
end, based on performance against targets
• 
One-third of any bonus payable from 2014 will normally be  
deferred into options/awards over ordinary shares with a three  
year vesting period
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) may be payable  
on awards to the extent they vest
• 
120% of salary
• 
Majority (if not all) based on 
financial targets
• 
Minority based on personal/ 
strategic targets
• 
Malus and clawback provisions 
operate for deferred bonuses
Long Term Share 
Incentive plans
• 
To incentivise value creation over the long term  
and reward execution of our strategy 
• 
To align the long term interest of directors  
and shareholders
• 
To promote retention
• 
Annual grant of awards
• 
Structured as nil cost options/conditional awards
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) may be payable  
on awards to the extent they vest
Grant policy
• 
Up to 150% of salary per annum
Maximum limit
• 
200% of salary per annum
Exceptional limit
• 
300% of salary per annum
• 
Earnings per share, financial targets  
and/or total shareholder return  
related targets
• 
25% vests at threshold increasing to 
100% vesting at maximum
• 
Malus and clawback provisions operate
Pensions
• 
T o help recruit and retain high performing executives
• 
To reward continued contribution to the business 
by enabling executive directors to build long 
term savings
• 
Participation into a money purchase pension scheme and/or  
cash equivalent
• 
Directors will receive a pension contribution 
appropriate to their role
• 
n/a
All Employee 
Share Plans
• 
To encourage all employees to make a long  
term investment in the Company’s shares  
in a tax efficient manner
• 
Share Incentive Plan and/or Save As You Earn Plan as per HMRC 
approved rules
• 
Consistent with prevailing HMRC limits
• 
n/a
Share ownership 
guidelines
• 
To provide close alignment between the longer 
term interests of directors and shareholders in 
terms of the Company’s growth and performance
• 
Executive directors to retain no less than 50% of net of tax shares  
from vesting of share options/awards until such time as a shareholding 
equivalent in value to 100% of base salary has been achieved
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Non-executive 
directors
• 
To provide fees reflecting time commitments and 
responsibilities of each role, in line with those 
provided by similarly sized companies
• 
Cash fee paid on a monthly basis
• 
Fees are reviewed annually
• 
There is no prescribed maximum fee increase
• 
The Committee is guided by market rates, time 
commitments and responsibility levels
• 
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board 
committees, though additional fees are paid for specific 
additional responsibilities such as Chair of Audit and 
Risk Committee, Chair of Remuneration Committee 
and senior independent director
• 
n/a ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 57
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Notes to summary policy table
1  A description of how the Company intends to implement 
the remuneration policy for 2015 is set out in the 
following annual report on remuneration.
2  The annual bonus performance measures are currently 
focused on Group EBITDA measures to reflect how 
successful the Group has been in managing its operations. 
3  The long term incentive performance measures, currently 
EPS and TSR targets, have been selected to reward 
significant long term returns to shareholders and long 
term financial growth. EPS growth is derived from the 
audited financial statements. Targets take account of 
internal strategic planning and external market expectations 
for the Company. Only modest rewards are available for 
achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards 
requiring substantial out-performance of challenging 
strategic plans approved at the start of each year. 
4  The Committee operates incentive arrangements for 
executive directors in accordance with their respective 
rules and the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where 
relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, 
retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the 
operation and administration of the plan rules. These 
include (but are not limited to) the following:
• 
who participates;
• 
the timing of grant of award and/or payment;
• 
 the size of an award (up to plan/policy limits)  
and/or a payment;
• 
the result indicated by the performance conditions;
• 
 discretion relating to the measurement of 
performance in the event of a change of control 
or reconstruction;
• 
 determination of a good leaver (in addition to any 
specified categories) for incentive plan purposes;
• 
 adjustments required in certain circumstances 
(e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and 
special dividends); and
• 
 the ability to adjust existing performance conditions 
for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their 
original purpose.
5  For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors’ 
remuneration policy, authority was given to the Company 
to honour any commitments entered into with current 
or former directors (such as the payment of a pension 
or the vesting or exercise of past share awards).
Summary remuneration policy
The remuneration policy continues to be appropriate and therefore there has been no change to policy from the prior year. 
The key components of the remuneration packages offered to our directors are as follows:
Future policy table
Component Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity Applicable performance measure
Salary and fees
• 
To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation  
of high performing people
• 
To reflect their experience and importance  
to the business
• 
Fixed annual sum normally payable monthly and reviewed annually
• 
Review reflects changes in scope of role and responsibility, personal 
and Group performance, increases throughout the rest of business
• 
Salary of newly appointed directors may be phased to take account  
of experience
• 
The maximum annual salary increase will not 
normally exceed the average increase which  
applies across the wider workforce
• 
The Committee is guided by the general increase  
for the broader employee population but may decide 
to award a lower increase or a higher increase  
for executive directors to recognise, for example,  
an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility  
of the role, to apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed director and/or to take account of relevant 
market movements
• 
n/a
Benefits
• 
To provide support and protection and the ability  
to focus on effective delivery
• 
Benefits currently include company car allowance, private  
medical insurance and life assurance. Other benefits may be  
provided where appropriate
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Annual bonuses
• 
To incentivise the delivery of stretching short 
term business targets and strategic and/or  
personal objectives
• 
To recognise performance through variable 
remuneration, allowing flexible control of the 
cost base and response to market conditions
• 
All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the Committee  
at the beginning of the year and payments determined after the year 
end, based on performance against targets
• 
One-third of any bonus payable from 2014 will normally be  
deferred into options/awards over ordinary shares with a three  
year vesting period
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) may be payable  
on awards to the extent they vest
• 
120% of salary
• 
Majority (if not all) based on 
financial targets
• 
Minority based on personal/ 
strategic targets
• 
Malus and clawback provisions 
operate for deferred bonuses
Long Term Share 
Incentive plans
• 
To incentivise value creation over the long term  
and reward execution of our strategy 
• 
To align the long term interest of directors  
and shareholders
• 
To promote retention
• 
Annual grant of awards
• 
Structured as nil cost options/conditional awards
• 
Non-pensionable
• 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or shares) may be payable  
on awards to the extent they vest
Grant policy
• 
Up to 150% of salary per annum
Maximum limit
• 
200% of salary per annum
Exceptional limit
• 
300% of salary per annum
• 
Earnings per share, financial targets  
and/or total shareholder return  
related targets
• 
25% vests at threshold increasing to 
100% vesting at maximum
• 
Malus and clawback provisions operate
Pensions
• 
T o help recruit and retain high performing executives
• 
To reward continued contribution to the business 
by enabling executive directors to build long 
term savings
• 
Participation into a money purchase pension scheme and/or  
cash equivalent
• 
Directors will receive a pension contribution 
appropriate to their role
• 
n/a
All Employee 
Share Plans
• 
To encourage all employees to make a long  
term investment in the Company’s shares  
in a tax efficient manner
• 
Share Incentive Plan and/or Save As You Earn Plan as per HMRC 
approved rules
• 
Consistent with prevailing HMRC limits
• 
n/a
Share ownership 
guidelines
• 
To provide close alignment between the longer 
term interests of directors and shareholders in 
terms of the Company’s growth and performance
• 
Executive directors to retain no less than 50% of net of tax shares  
from vesting of share options/awards until such time as a shareholding 
equivalent in value to 100% of base salary has been achieved
• 
n/a
• 
n/a
Non-executive 
directors
• 
To provide fees reflecting time commitments and 
responsibilities of each role, in line with those 
provided by similarly sized companies
• 
Cash fee paid on a monthly basis
• 
Fees are reviewed annually
• 
There is no prescribed maximum fee increase
• 
The Committee is guided by market rates, time 
commitments and responsibility levels
• 
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board 
committees, though additional fees are paid for specific 
additional responsibilities such as Chair of Audit and 
Risk Committee, Chair of Remuneration Committee 
and senior independent director
• 
n/a CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
58 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy
Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with 
a substantial proportion of executive directors’ remuneration payable in the form of variable, 
performance-related pay. The charts that follow illustrate the opportunity at different levels 
of performance for the remuneration policy.
The above scenarios adopt the following assumptions:
• 
fixed pay consists of base salary as at 1 January 2015, benefits and pension allowances. The value of benefits has 
been estimated;
• 
on-target performance is based on the value of fixed pay plus on-target incentive pay, based on 83% of the maximum 
bonus and 62.5% of the maximum long term incentive award values;
• 
maximum performance is based on the value of fixed pay plus maximum incentive pay (i.e. a 120% of base salary annual 
bonus and a 150%/130% of salary LTIP award). IPO options, as described in the annual report on remuneration, have 
been excluded from the above analysis as they do not form part of the ongoing remuneration policy; and
• 
no assumptions have been made as to the share price growth and any dividend accrual has been excluded from the above.
Recruitment of executive directors 
and promotions
When setting the remuneration package for 
a new executive director, the Committee will 
apply the same principles and implement the 
policy as set out in the table on pages 56 to 57. 
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate 
to the role and experience of the director 
being appointed. This may include setting 
a below-market salary with an agreement 
on future increases up to a market rate, 
in line with increased experience and/or 
responsibilities, subject to performance, 
where this is considered appropriate. 
Our policy on maximum annual bonus 
and LTIP awards would apply.
In relation to external appointments, the 
Committee may structure an appointment 
package that it considers appropriate 
to recognise awards or benefits forfeited 
on resignation from a prior position, taking 
into account timing and valuation and 
other specific matters it considers relevant. 
This may take the form of cash and/or 
share awards. The maximum payment under 
any such arrangements (which may be in 
addition to normal variable remuneration) 
would be no more than the Committee 
considers is required to provide reasonable 
compensation to the incoming director 
and would not go beyond a like-for-like 
compensation. If a director is required to 
relocate in order to take up the position, the 
Company may consider reasonable relocation, 
travel, subsistence and any other incidental 
payments as appropriate. Any such payments 
will be at the discretion of the Committee.
In the case of an employee who is promoted 
to the position of director, it is the Company’s 
policy to honour pre-existing commitments 
in accordance with their terms.
54 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
£0
£500
£1,000
£1,500
£2,500
£2,000
Maximum Target
 
Below target Below target Maximum Target
£’000s
100% 38% 30%
100% 39% 32%
32% 31%
34% 33%
30%
39%
27%
35%
£675
£1,789
£2,228
£350
£894
£1,100
Fixed pay
Bonus
LTIP
Chief executive ofﬁcer Chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 59
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Service agreements and letters of appointment
Each of the executive director’s service agreements is for a rolling term and may be terminated 
by the Company or the director by giving twelve months’ notice.
The non-executive directors of the Company (including the chairman) do not have service 
agreements. The independent non-executive directors are appointed by letters of appointment 
and have an initial two year term. Caleb Kramer’s services are provided to the Company under 
an agreement between the Company and Oaktree Capital Management FIE LLC which runs 
for an initial period of three years. The initial terms of the non-executive directors’ positions 
are subject to their re-election by the Group’s shareholders at the AGM.
The dates of appointments of the non-executive directors in office as at 31 December 2014 
are set out below:
Non-executive director Commencement date of current term
Unexpired term as at 
29 April 2015 AGM
Grenville Turner 1 September 2014 1 year, 4 months
David Watson 2 September 2013 4 months
*
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 3 months*
Richard Adam 9 June 2014 1 year, 1 month
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 1 year, 1 month
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 1 year, 1 month
Caleb Kramer 19 March 2013 11 months*
* Individuals will be subject to re-election at the 2015 AGM.
The directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office and will be available at the AGM.
Policy on payment for loss of office
If an executive director’s employment is 
terminated, in the absence of a breach 
of service agreement by the director, the 
Company may (although it is not obliged 
to) terminate the director’s employment 
immediately by payment of an amount equal 
to the basic salary and specified benefits 
(including pension scheme contribution or 
equivalent salary supplement payment) in 
lieu of the whole or the remaining part of the 
notice period. Discretionary bonus payments 
will not form part of any payments in lieu of 
notice. Annual bonus may be payable with 
respect to the period of the financial year 
served although it would be paid in cash and 
pro-rated for time and paid at the normal 
payout date. Payments in lieu of notice may 
be paid in monthly instalments over the length 
of the notice period with such instalments 
to be reduced or to cease upon the director 
receiving payment from a new position.
Any share-based entitlements granted to 
an executive director under the Company’s 
share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the LTIP is that 
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation 
of employment. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as ill health, injury or 
disability, retirement, transfer of the employing 
company outside of the Group or in other 
circumstances at the discretion of the 
Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be applied. 
For good leavers, awards will normally vest 
on the normal vesting date, subject to the 
satisfaction of the relevant performance 
conditions and reduced pro-rata to reflect 
the proportion of the performance period 
actually served. However, the Committee has 
discretion to determine that awards for good 
leavers vest at cessation and/or to disapply 
time pro-rating. In the event of death, awards 
will normally vest on the date of death subject 
to performance conditions and time pro-rating 
although the Committee has discretion to 
determine that awards vest at the normal 
vesting date and/or to disapply time pro-rating.
The default treatment under the IPO options, 
the rules of which were drafted to replicate 
the pre-admission long term incentive plan 
(see annual report on remuneration), is that 
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation 
of employment. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as death, permanent 
disability, retirement, transfer of the employing 
company outside of the Group, employment 
being terminated within twelve months of a 
material acquisition, cessation between the 
second and third anniversary of Admission 
where the chief executive officer or chief 
financial officer either receives a payment 
in lieu of notice or otherwise leave without 
notice or in other circumstances at the 
discretion of the Committee, ‘good leaver’ 
status may be applied. For good leavers, 
awards will normally vest on the normal 
vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the 
relevant performance conditions. Other than 
where the chief executive officer or chief 
financial officer ceases employment between 
the second and third anniversary of Admission 
in circumstances where the individual receives 
a payment in lieu of notice, IPO options will be 
reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the 
vesting period served although the Committee 
has discretion to disapply time pro-rating.
The default treatment for deferred bonus 
awards is that any outstanding awards vest 
on cessation of employment unless cessation 
is as a result of dismissal for gross misconduct 
or a similar ‘bad leaver’ reason.
External appointment of 
executive directors
The Board allows executive directors to accept 
appropriate outside commercial non-executive 
director appointments provided the aggregate 
commitment is compatible with their duties 
as executive directors. The executive directors 
concerned may retain fees paid for these 
services, which will be subject to approval 
by the Board. Details of such appointments 
and fees retained for 2014 are disclosed 
on page 61. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
60 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Annual report on remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2015
Details of how the Committee intends to operate the remuneration policy for directors for the year ending 31 December 2015 are set out below. 
Base salary
Base salaries for the executive directors 
are reviewed annually by the Committee, 
taking account of the director’s performance, 
experience and responsibilities. When 
determining base salaries, the Committee also 
has regard to economic factors, remuneration 
trends and the general level of salary increases 
awarded throughout the Group. Current base 
salaries are as follows:
1 January 
2014* 
£’000
1 January 
2015 
£’000
Alison Platt 575 575
Jim Clarke 300 300
* Or appointment if later.
Benefits in kind and pension
Executive directors will continue to receive 
benefits in kind including a company car 
allowance, life assurance, private medical 
insurance and permanent health insurance. 
Jim Clarke will receive a company pension 
contribution of up to 12% of base salary, whilst 
Alison Platt will receive a salary supplement 
in lieu of pension entitlement of up to 15% 
of base salary.
Annual bonus 
For 2015, the annual bonus will continue to 
be based on Group EBITDA targets, although 
assessment of qualitative measures and 
personal contributions will also be considered 
as well as financial performance in determining 
annual bonuses. The Committee has chosen not 
to disclose the performance targets in advance 
for 2015 as these include items which the 
Committee considers commercially sensitive. 
Retrospective disclosure of the targets and 
performance against them will be presented 
in the 2015 annual report on remuneration. 
The maximum bonus potential will continue 
to be 120% of salary for executive directors 
for 2015 and one-third of any bonus payable 
will be deferred into Company shares for a 
period of three years. Malus and clawback 
provisions will operate in respect of deferred 
bonus awards. 
Long term incentives
The annual award of LTIPs to be granted in 
2015 will be assessed over the three year 
performance period from 1 January 2015 
to 31 December 2017 and will be subject 
to the following targets:
• 
absolute EPS (two-thirds) – 25% of this 
part of an award will vest for EPS growth 
of 10% per annum increasing pro-rata 
to 100% vesting for EPS growth of 25% 
per annum; and
• 
relative TSR (one-third) – the Company’s 
TSR measured against the constituents of 
the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services 
companies and investment trusts). 25% of 
this part of an award will vest for performance 
at median of comparator group, increasing 
pro-rata to 100% vesting at upper quartile.
The Group chief executive officer will receive 
an LTIP award over shares worth 150% of 
salary and the Group chief financial officer 
will receive an LTIP award over shares worth 
130% of salary. Malus and clawback 
provisions will operate.
Shareholding guidelines will continue to 
operate. Executive directors will be required 
to retain no less than 50% of net of tax 
shares from vesting of share options or 
awards until such time as a shareholding 
equivalent in value to 100% of base salary 
has been achieved.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive director fee levels for 2015 are as follows:
Director
Committee 
chairman role
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
Grenville Turner Chairman, Nomination n/a 150
David Watson Deputy chairman and senior independent director 150* 95
Cathy Turner Remuneration 55 55
Richard Adam Audit and Risk n/a 55
Rupert Gavin — n/a 45
Jane Lighting — n/a 45
Caleb Kramer — 40 40
*  David Watson acted as interim chairman from 8 November 2013 until 1 September 2014. This entitled him to an additional fee of £95,000 p.a. on top of his £55,000 normal fee as 
chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee. His fee was set at £95,000 p.a. upon appointment as deputy chairman and senior independent director from 1 September 2014.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 61
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Executive director changes during 2014
Grenville Turner stepped down as chief executive officer on 1 September 2014. He received his base salary and benefits and a pro-rated 
annual bonus (awarded at the normal post-year end date with one-third deferred into shares) up to this date. Outstanding share awards will 
continue to vest on their original terms. Upon being appointed non-executive chairman, he received a fee of £150,000 per annum.
Alison Platt was appointed chief executive officer from 1 September 2014. Her package, which is consistent with the approved remuneration 
policy, comprises a base salary of £575,000, a 15% of salary supplement in respect of pension, annual bonus potential of up to 120% of 
base salary (with a third deferred into shares) and a 150% of salary LTIP award. In addition, to compensate for incentives forgone in respect 
of leaving in her previous employment and as agreed as part of her recruitment arrangements and consistent with the remuneration policy, 
Alison Platt received a payment of £329,000 following the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 in respect of annual bonus 
forgone and an LTIP award with a face value equal to £387,500 granted on 8 September 2014 with performance targets aligned to the main 
March 2014 LTIP awards. The Committee is satisfied that the structure and quantum of the buyout awards is appropriate and aligned to that 
forgone in respect of currency, payment/vesting dates and performance targets. 
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 (audited)
The remuneration of the directors for the years 2014 and 2013 was as follows:
Salary and fees Taxable benefits
3
Annual bonuses
4
Long term incentives Pension
5
Other
6
Total
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Executive directors
Alison Platt
1
192 — 5 — — — — — 29 — 329 — 555 —
Grenville Turner
2
317 470 10 14 253 475 7,116 — 48 56 — — 7,744 1,015
Jim Clarke 300 289 15 14 240 300 4,269 — 35 35 — — 4,859 638
Non-executive 
directors
7
Grenville Turner
2
50 — — — — — — — — — — — 50 —
Caleb Kramer 40 35 — — — — — — — — — — 40 35
David Watson 132 33 — — — — — — — — — — 132 33
Cathy Turner 55 23 — — — — — — — — — — 55 23
Richard Adam 31 — — — — — — — — — — — 31 —
Rupert Gavin 24 — — — — — — — — — — — 24 —
Jane Lighting 25 — — — — — — — — — — — 25 —
Sandra Turner 20 37 — — — — — — — — — — 20 37
Former directors
8
— 152 — — — — — — — — — 201 — 353
1,186 1,039 30 28 493 775 11,385 — 112 91 329 201 13,535 2,134
1 Alison Platt was appointed chief executive officer from 1 September 2014.
2  Grenville Turner stepped down from his role as chief executive officer on 1 September 2014, taking on the role of non-executive chairman from that date. In addition to the above, 
Grenville Turner was chairman of Knightsbridge Student Housing Limited and Bellpenny Limited, was a non-executive director of Zoopla Property Group Ltd and the Department of 
Communities and Local Government (DCLG). During his period as chief executive, he received fees in respect of his role with Knightsbridge Student Housing Limited amounting to 
£33,333, Zoopla Property Group Ltd of £10,000 and DCLG of £10,000. Alison Platt also acts as a non-executive director for Cable & Wireless Communications plc and retains an 
annual fee of £65,000.
3 Benefits consist of the provision of a car allowance, life assurance, private medical and health insurance.
4  Details of the annual bonus targets and payments for 2014 are set out overleaf. Grenville Turner remained eligible for a 2014 annual bonus, pro-rated for his timed served as chief executive 
officer, in accordance with the bonus plan rules. Similarly, in accordance with the bonus plan rules, as detailed on the previous page, one-third of any bonus is subject to deferral into 
shares, normally vesting after three years, subject to continued service. As such, £84,000 and £80,000 have been deferred in relation to Grenville Turner and Jim Clarke respectively.
5  Alison Platt receives a 15% of salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlements and Jim Clarke receives a pension contribution to the defined contribution section of the Group scheme 
of 12% of his base salary subject to his personal contribution of 9% of his base salary.
6  As described above, to compensate for lost bonus opportunity in respect of leaving her previous employment, and as agreed as part of her recruitment arrangements and consistent 
with the remuneration policy, Alison Platt received a payment of £329,000 following the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2014. 
7 Richard Adam and Jane Lighting were appointed on 9 June 2014; Rupert Gavin was appointed on 25 June 2014. Sandra Turner stepped down on 9 June 2014.
8 Former directors relates to Sanjay Patel, Robert Davies and Neville Richardson who were all non-executive directors and who all stepped down during 2013.
9  Matching shares are also issued to the eligible executive directors under the Share Incentive Plan from December 2013, following the introduction of the employee-wide share 
incentive plan. The aggregate value of these in each year in respect of each executive director is disclosed within the SIP share awards overleaf. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
62 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Annual report on remuneration continued
2014 annual bonus award (audited)
Executive directors had the potential to receive an annual bonus of up to 120% of base salary. The primary driver of any award is based on 
Group EBITDA performance relative to targets set at the start of the financial year. In assessing the final award, the required Group EBITDA 
is adjusted up or down dependent upon the actual market size relative to the plan. The market size is measured based on the independent 
Land Registry data (as at the end of October 2014) plus full year indicative estimates after considering all relevant information on the size of 
the market, including Bank of England mortgage approval levels, in the final two months of the year. Group EBITDA is also adjusted for any 
significant benefit and costs associated with major unplanned initiatives such as acquisitions. To receive an award, an executive director must 
also have performed at an individual level. 
In determining the 2014 annual bonus award, the Committee considered:
• 
Group EBITDA of £121.1 million, which represents outperformance of the target Group EBITDA of £118.9 million in the plan;
• 
an estimated market size considerably larger, +11%, than anticipated; and
• 
the strong personal performance of each executive director.
Whilst performance against the original plan would have triggered a bonus of 105% of base salary, the larger than expected market size 
resulted in a flexing downwards of the annual bonus award to 80% of base salary (i.e. 67% of the maximum).
The following table illustrates the performance measures and Group targets, their significance in terms of value and the respective outcomes:
Performance required
Measure Weighting Threshold On-target Maximum Actual Payout
Flexed Group EBITDA 100% £103.2m £129.1m £138.1m £121.1m 67% of maximum
In line with deferral policy, one-third of any bonus payable will be deferred into Company shares for a period of three years.
Vesting of scheme interests in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 (audited)
Awards made under the IPO option plan in March 2013, which was designed to roll over the management incentive plan awards granted 
pre-IPO and which would have ordinarily crystallised at IPO, are due to vest in 50% March 2015 and 50% March 2016 based upon the 
EBITDA performance for the year ended 31 December 2014 as follows:
Threshold target
1
0% vesting at or
below
Maximum target
1
100% vesting at
or above Actual EBITDA Vesting %
2
EBITDA for the year ended 31 December 2014 £83.1m £129.1m £121.1m 83%
1  The EBITDA threshold and maximum targets were originally set at £74 million and £120 million respectively although as disclosed in the Prospectus, the Remuneration Committee retained 
the discretion to toughen the targets in light of material acquisitions during the performance period (i.e. to ensure that management could not simply acquire businesses to achieve the 
targets). As such, following a review of material acquisitions made during the performance period, the Committee considered it appropriate and in the interests of shareholders to increase 
the threshold and maximum EBITDA targets by £9.1 million (based on the aggregate planned 2014 EBITDA for the following acquisitions: LSH, Tucker Gardner, Preston Bennett and APW). 
2 Percentage based on pro-rata vesting between the threshold and maximum targets.
Based on the above, the outstanding IPO options held by Directors are expected to vest as follows:
Executive Award granted
Number of shares 
vesting
1
 
(83%)
Number of shares
lapsing
(17%)
Estimated
value of shares at
vesting
2
£000
Value of dividend
equivalents
3
£000
Estimated
total value of 
awards at vesting
£000
2
Grenville Turner 1,828,045 1,517,277 310,768 6,782 334 7,116
Jim Clarke 1,096,827 910,366 186,461 4,069 200 4,269
1 50% of the above awards will vest on 18 March 2015, with a further 50% held to vest on 18 March 2016.
2 The estimated values above are based on the average share price in the three months ended 31 December 2014 being 447 pence.
3 Dividend equivalents will be cash settled in line with the default treatment in the IPO option plan rules.
Directors’ remuneration report continued ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 63
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Scheme interests awarded during the year (audited)
LTIP awards
The following LTIP awards, structured as nil cost options, were granted to executive directors during 2014:
Executive Date of grant
Basis of 
award granted
Share price 
at date of grant 
(pence)
Number 
of shares
Face value
of award at grant*
£’000
% of face value 
that would vest 
at threshold 
performance
Vesting 
determined by 
performance over
Normal vesting 
(exercise) 
date
Alison Platt 08/09/2014 150% of 
salary plus 
£387,500 in 
recognition 
of forfeited 
shares from 
previous 
employer
508 246,305 1,250 25% Three year  
period ending  
31 December 2016
8 September 2017
(8 September 
2024)
Jim Clarke 21/03/2014 130%  
of salary
660 58,735 390 25% Three year  
period ending  
31 December 2016
21 March 2017
(21 March 2024)
* Based on the share price at grant multiplied by the number of shares awarded.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows:
• 
absolute EPS (two-thirds) – 25% of this part of an award will vest for EPS of 58 pence increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for EPS of 
70 pence for the year ending 31 December 2016; and
• 
relative TSR (one-third) – the Company’s TSR measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services companies 
and investment trusts). 25% of this part of an award will vest for performance at median of comparator group, increasing pro-rata to 100% 
vesting at upper quartile.
Outstanding share awards
Date of
grant
Interest at
1 January 
2014
Options/awards 
granted during 
the year
Options/awards 
lapsed during 
the year
Options/awards 
exercised during 
the year
Interest at 
31 December 
2014
Exercise 
price 
pence
Expected 
exercise/vested 
to expiry date 
(if appropriate)
Alison Platt
LTIP 08/09/14 — 246,305 — — 246,305 — 08/09/17 (08/09/24)
Grenville Turner
IPO options 18/03/13 1,828,045 — — — 1,828,045 — 50% 18/03/15 
50% 18/03/16
LTIP 06/09/13 129,545 — — — 129,545 — 06/09/16 (06/09/23)
Jim Clarke
IPO options 18/03/13 1,096,827 — — — 1,096,827 — 50% 18/03/15 
50% 18/03/16
LTIP 06/09/13 70,909 — — — 70,909 — 06/09/16 (06/09/23)
21/03/14 — 58,735 — — 58,735 — 21/03/17 (21/03/24) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
64 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Outstanding share awards continued
The executive directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company under the SIP as at 31 December 2014 are shown in the table below. 
The shares are held under a SIP trust and will vest based on service conditions of continued employment and have a vesting date of a minimum 
holding period of three years from each rolling monthly award date.
Total SIP 
shares at 
1 January 
2014
Partnership 
shares 
purchased
Matching 
shares 
awarded
Dividend 
shares 
purchased
Total SIP 
shares at 
31 December 
2014
Jim Clarke 66 322 161 1 550
Alison Platt is not eligible to join the SIP scheme until she has completed 18 months’ service.
The matching shares were awarded each month in the ratio of one matching share for every two partnership shares purchased at the 
prevailing market price on the date of the award.
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
The interests of the directors who served on the Committee during 2014 have been subject to audit and are set out in the table below: 
Legally owned LTIP awards IPO options
31 December
2014
31 December
2013 Unvested Vested Unvested Vested
SIP matching 
share awards 
restricted
Total
31 December
2014
Shareholding 
guideline 
(100% of salary)
2
Alison Platt — — 246,305 — — — — 246,305 187%
Jim Clarke 1,088,596 1,579,941 129,644 — 1,096,827 — 183 2,315,250 3,372%
Grenville Turner 1,071,524 
1
2,633,206 
1
129,545 — 1,828,045 — — 3,029,114 n/a
David Watson 12,578 
1
— — — — — — 12,578 n/a
Cathy Turner 9,747 — — — — — — 9,747 n/a
Richard Adam 10,000 — — — — — — 10,000 n/a
Rupert Gavin 4,550 — — — — — — 4,550 n/a
Jane Lighting 9,500 — — — — — — 9,500 n/a
Caleb Kramer — — — — — — — — n/a
Sandra Turner — — — — — — — — n/a
1 Includes jointly controlled shares held by close family members.
2 Actual beneficial share ownership as a percentage of salary calculated as at, and based on the share price of £4.37 on, 31 December 2014.
There have been the following changes in the interests of any director between 1 January 2015 and the date of this report:
• 
purchase of SIP partnership shares by Jim Clarke (64 shares); and
• 
issue of SIP matching share awards to Jim Clarke (32 shares). ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 65
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Payments to past directors and payments for loss of office (audited)
There have been no payments made to directors following their resignation and no payments have been made for loss of office. 
Performance graph and table
The graph shows the value, by 31 December 2014, of £100 invested in Countrywide plc in March 2013 (IPO) compared with the value 
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). in the opinion of the directors, this index (excluding investment trusts) 
is the most appropriate peer group and also closely aligns with the comparator group used for the LTIP plans, which comprises the FTSE 250 
Index excluding investment trusts and financial services companies.
The table below sets out the details for the director undertaking the role of chief executive officer: 
Year
Chief executive 
officer single 
figure of total 
remuneration 
£’000
Annual bonus 
payout against 
maximum
%
Long term incentive 
vesting rates 
against maximum 
opportunity
%
2014 Alison Platt
1
555 n/a n/a
2014 Grenville Turner
2
7,744 67 83
2013 Grenville Turner 1,015 83 n/a
2012 Grenville Turner 914 83 n/a
2011 Grenville Turner 689 46 n/a
2010 Grenville Turner 892 79 n/a
2009 Grenville Turner 972 100 n/a 
1 Alison Platt was appointed chief executive officer from 1 September 2014.
2 Grenville Turner stepped down as chief executive officer with effect from 1 September 2014.
90
18 March 2013 31 December2014 31 December2013
Source: Datastream
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
Value (£)
Countrywide plc Countrywide plc (daily) FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) (daily) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
66 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive officer
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the director undertaking the role of chief executive officer and the 
Company’s employees as a whole between the years 2014 and 2013:
Percentage increase in  
remuneration in 2014 compared  
with remuneration in 2013
Chief executive 
officer
Average pay  
based on all 
Countrywide 
employees
Salary and fees 0% 4.4%
All taxable benefits 0% 13.7%
Annual bonuses/variable pay (20)% 4.4%
Given the change in chief executive officer during the year, the value included for salary and benefits above is the value devised by prorating Grenville Turner’s salary for a full year period, 
and applying the bonus out turn to this figure. As Grenville Turner occupied the role for the majority of the year, this value is considered most representative.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends, tax and retained profits:
 
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Change
%
Employee costs 392,794 332,606 18
Dividends 43,889 4,389 900
Tax charge 11,712 3,832 206
Retained profits 24,047 29,904 (20)
The Remuneration Committee and its composition
The Committee’s composition, responsibilities and operation comply with the principles of good governance (as set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code). The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on request to shareholders and on the Company’s website at 
www.countrywide.co.uk. The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Board and, if necessary, updated. 
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below:
Member
Remuneration Committee
member since
Cathy Turner (chairman) 31 July 2013
Richard Adam 9 June 2014
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
David Watson 2 September 2013
The composition of the Committee changed during the period with Sandra Turner resigning from the Board and Committee in June 2014, 
and the simultaneous appointment of Richard Adam and Jane Lighting, with Rupert Gavin also joining later in the month. Attendance by 
members at the meetings is shown on page 45. All members of the Committee are considered independent non-executive directors. 
The chairman of the Committee reports on the Committee’s activities to the Board at the meeting immediately following the Committee meeting.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 67
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
Membership of Board committees that considered remuneration (both the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee (when 
directors are appointed)) are disclosed within the corporate governance section of the annual report. Invitations to attend are also extended 
to executive management where appropriate. The Committee received advice on remuneration from New Bridge Street, part of AON plc, 
during 2014. New Bridge Street is not connected to the Group, is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its 
Code of Conduct, and in 2014 received fees of £30,140 (2013: £10,000) in connection with its work for the Committee. 
Shareholder voting and engagement
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2014, the resolutions in respect of the remuneration report and the remuneration 
policy were as follows:
Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld 
Resolution
Number of 
shares
% of 
shares voted
Number of 
shares
% of 
shares voted
% of issued  
share capital
Number of 
shares
Approval of remuneration report 179,492,642 98.81% 826,871 0.46% 82.78% 1,334,148
Approval of remuneration policy 166,982,474 91.92% 8,456,648 4.66% 82.78% 6,214,539
While the Committee was pleased with the level of shareholder support at the 2014 AGM, indicated by the level of votes in favour of resolutions, 
and the degree of participation in voting, it will continue to listen to and engage with shareholders with regard to all aspects of the Company’s 
remuneration policy.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
68 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Directors’ report
Group directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2014
The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. The review of the 
business, future developments and outlook, as well as specific disclosures in relation to employee policies, are contained within the strategic 
report and are incorporated into the directors’ report by cross reference.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries and financial risk management policies are given 
in notes 33 and 34 to the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in the annual report and accounts, 
where applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this directors’ report, with the exception of the information set out in the table below, which can be 
found at the location specified.
Listing Rule Information Location
LR 9.8.4(4) Details of long term incentive schemes as 
required by LR 9.4.3, regarding information 
about the recruitment of a director
Pages 62 to 63 of the directors’ 
remuneration report
LR 9.8.4(11) Details of contracts for the provision of 
services to the Company by a controlling 
shareholder Page 59 of the directors’ remuneration report
LR 9.8.4(14) Details of transactions with controlling 
shareholders Page 117 (note 35 to the accounts)
General information
Countrywide plc is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The registered 
address of the Company is included in note 1 to the financial statements.
Dividends
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.0 pence (net) per share. Subject to approval at the AGM, the dividend 
will be paid on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at 27 March 2015. Together with the interim and special dividends of 
5.0 and 9.0 pence (net) per share respectively paid on 15 September 2014, the total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, 
24.0 pence (net) per share (2013: 8.0 pence (net) per share).
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital are shown in note 26 to the Group financial statements on page 108 of this annual report. The Company 
has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and have no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 27 to the Group financial statements. Shares held by the Group Employee Benefit Trust 
abstain from voting.
Purchase of the Company’s own shares
Further to the shareholders’ resolutions passed at the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2014, during the year the Company 
purchased 2,917,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of £29,170, and representing 1.33% of the Company’s called up ordinary share 
capital, for a consideration of £13,261,617. The reason for the purchase was to improve the return available to shareholders and enhance 
earnings per share.
At the end of the year, the directors had authority, under the shareholders’ resolutions of 30 April 2014, to make one or more market purchases 
of its ordinary shares, limited to: a maximum number of 21,944,496 ordinary shares; a minimum price of the nominal value; and a maximum 
price of 5% above the average market value for the preceding five business days or the higher of the price of the last independent trade and 
highest current independent bid. This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM on 29 April 2015.
As a routine matter, the Company will be seeking to have this authority renewed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 69
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Substantial shareholdings
At 25 February 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder Number of shares % holding
Oaktree Capital Management 64,929,676 30.19
Harris Associates L.P. 12,886,753 5.99
Royal London Asset Management 10,206,737 4.75
Janus Capital Management 8,084,302 3.76
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders
Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the 
votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as ‘controlling shareholders’. The Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which 
is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions. The agreement must contain 
undertakings that:
(a)  transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder (and/or any of its associates) will be conducted at arm’s length and on 
normal commercial terms;
(b)  neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company 
from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules; and
(c)  neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is 
intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, on 19 March 2013, the Company entered into such an agreement (the ‘Relationship 
Agreement’) with, among others, OCM Luxembourg Castle Holdings S.Á R.L. and OCM Luxembourg EPF III Castle Holdings S.Á R.L. (together, 
the ‘Oaktree Shareholders’) who have a combined total holding of approximately 30.19% of the Company’s voting rights. Under the terms 
of the Relationship Agreement, Oaktree have agreed to the independence obligations contained in the Relationship Agreement.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship Agreement on 19 March 2013 until 25 February 2015, being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report:
(i)   the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement; and 
(ii)  so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by Oaktree 
and their associates. 
As there are no controlling shareholders of the Company other than the Oaktree Shareholders , there is no need for the Relationship Agreement 
to require the Oaktree Shareholders to procure compliance by any third parties with the independence provisions of the Relationship Agreement. 
Appointment and removal of directors
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. The Company may, by special resolution, remove 
any director before the expiration of their period of office.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company 
will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Amendment of Articles
The Articles may be altered by special resolution, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Directors and directors’ interests
The directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements are disclosed 
on pages 42 to 43 and their interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 64.
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors 
during the year; these provisions remain in force at the date of this report. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
70 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Directors’ report continued
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
All directors at the date of approval of this annual report confirm that:
• 
so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• 
the directors have taken steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of any such information.
The auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found in the Corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 53 of this annual 
report. The Corporate governance statement forms part of this directors’ report and is incorporated into it by cross reference.
Going concern
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. In order to satisfy themselves 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed detailed 
assumptions about future trading performance and cash flow projections within the Group’s current five year plan. This, together with available 
market information and the Directors’ knowledge and experience, has given them the confidence to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Post balance sheet events
Particulars of important post balance sheet events of the Company are set out in note 12 to the Group financial statements on page 122 
of this annual report and are incorporated into this directors’ report by cross reference.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
GHG emissions data for the period 1 January to 31 December
Tonnes of CO
2
e*
2014 2013
Scope 1
Controlled vehicle fleet 6,725 7,918
Scope 2
Electricity and heat purchased for own use 16,237 14,047
Tonnes of CO
2
e*/£m revenue 32.7 37.5
*  C O
2
e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gas expressed in terms of global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013. We have used the operational control consolidation method. These sources fall within our 
consolidated financial statements, but exclude non-wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emission factors from the UK Government’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate the above disclosures.
AGM Notice
Accompanying this report is the Notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions for the meeting, together with an explanation of them.
By order of the Board
Gareth Williams
Company Secretary
26 February 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 71
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
annual report, the directors’ remuneration 
report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, 
and the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
• 
select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
• 
make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
• 
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the Group 
and parent company financial statements 
respectively; and
• 
prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Company’ s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements and the directors’ 
remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit and Risk 
Committee, the directors consider that the 
annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the directors, whose names and 
functions are listed within the corporate 
governance statement, confirm that, to the 
best of each person’s knowledge and belief:
• 
the Group financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group; and
• 
the strategic report contained in the 
annual report includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Group 
website, www.countrywide.co.uk. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibilities statement 72 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Strong financial result underpinned by significant 
progress in diversifying revenue streams with 
appropriate capital structure in place to maximise 
future growth opportunities.
Record financial 
performance in terms 
of income and margins
Financial statements 
73 Independent auditor’s report
77 Consolidated income statement
78 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
79 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
80 Consolidated balance sheet
81 Consolidated cash flow statement 
82 Notes to the financial statements
118 Independent auditor’s report
119 Company balance sheet
120 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
Shareholder information
123 Company information
124 Forward-looking statements
125 Awards ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 73
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Countrywide plc
Report on the group 
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Countrywide plc’s group 
financial statements (the “financial 
statements”):
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 
and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Countrywide plc’s financial statements 
comprise:
• 
the consolidated balance sheet as at 
31 December 2014;
• 
the consolidated income statement and 
consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income for the year then ended;
• 
the consolidated cash flow statement for 
the year then ended;
• 
the consolidated statement of changes 
in equity for the year then ended; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been 
presented elsewhere in the Countrywide 
Annual Report (the “Annual Report”), rather 
than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the financial 
statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
• 
Overall Group materiality: £4.0 million 
(2013: £2.9 million) which represents 5% 
of profit before tax and exceptional items.
• 
We performed audit work over the complete 
financial information of reporting units 
which accounted for 97% (2013: 96%) of 
the Group’s revenues and 93% (2013: 95%) 
of the Group’s profit before tax.
• 
Professional indemnity provisions and 
associated legal costs, largely in relation to 
mortgage valuation claims arising from the 
buoyant property market in 2004-2007. 
• 
Impairment assessment of goodwill across 
the group and other intangible assets with 
indefinite lives, principally brands. 
• 
Accounting for acquisitions, particularly 
the identification of intangible assets 
relating to businesses acquired.
• 
Accounting for transactions with Zoopla 
plc following its IPO.
The scope of our audit and our areas 
of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining 
materiality and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the directors 
made subjective judgements, for example 
in respect of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also 
addressed the risk of management override 
of internal controls, including evaluating whether 
there is evidence of bias by the directors that 
may represent a risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit, including the 
allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. 
We have also set out how we tailored our 
audit to address these specific areas in order 
to provide an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments 
we make on the outcome of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
74 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Judgements and estimates in relation to professional 
indemnity provisions and related litigation costs 
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 86 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 103 to 104 (notes).
Professional indemnity (PI) provisions principally relate to the Surveyors’ 
and Lambert Smith Hampton Divisions. 
In common with other valuers, the Group is subject to claims in relation to 
incorrect mortgage valuation reports primarily carried out between 2004 
and 2007 (this population has been defined by the Group as exceptional 
for classification purposes). The Group holds professional indemnity insurance 
for such matters, but management uses judgement to estimate the net costs 
that will be incurred by the Group, including related litigation costs. All the 
claims received are listed and analysed through the Bordereaux report.
The provisions are for both claims already received and claims yet to be 
received. The second category includes significant management judgement 
given the need to estimate the incidence and amount of future claims. 
The provisions held are based on experience in settling past claims, discussions 
with the Group’s insurers and advice from legal counsel. Although each 
claim ultimately needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis a number 
of factors are relevant to many of the claims, so it is possible to use past 
experience to make judgements about ongoing claims and claims to come. 
We checked that the amounts in the Bordereaux report were appropriately reflected 
in the books and records, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the report and 
the input data. With respect to the input data, we agreed a sample of claims received 
and provisions made to the advice from lawyers and correspondence with claimants. 
We discussed specific large claims with the Group’s internal legal counsel, obtained 
letters from external counsel and confirmed that they supported management’s 
approach and provision in the accounts. For large claims, we also compared a 
sample of historical provisions to the actual amounts settled, determining that 
management’s estimation techniques were robust. 
Management increased the provision above that suggested in the Bordereaux 
report to reflect the latest observed trends in claims received and settled, the 
number of claims with losses, and the average loss on each claim. We were able 
to confirm that the latest data supported the changes to the amounts provided. 
For claims not yet received but incurred, we audited the model and approach 
used by the management by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying 
calculations and satisfying ourselves that the input data used also reflected the 
latest trends in claims with losses and average loss incurred.
We audited the classification of expense disclosed as normal and exceptional. 
We ensured that amounts classified as normal are consistent with the trend 
and amounts classified as exceptional relate to the population defined as such.
As ever with a provision of this nature there are significant assumptions made and 
the outcome is sensitive to some of the key assumptions. However, we believe that 
management has followed due process in assessing the provision and has taken 
into account the latest trends and on that basis the provision is within a reasonable 
range based on the information available at this time. 
Impairment assessment of indefinite life intangible assets
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 (Critical 
accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 95 to 96 (notes).
We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance (£418 million) 
across the Group and the value of the other intangible assets (£185 million) 
which are assumed to have indefinite useful life, principally brands. 
Although, based on historical performance, management believe there is 
significant headroom between the recoverable value of the Group’s Cash 
Generating Units (CGUs) and their carrying value, this remained an area 
of focus for us because the assessment of the recoverable value of the 
CGUs involves judgements about the future results of the business and 
the appropriate discount rates to apply to the future cash flows.
We evaluated and challenged management’s cash flow forecasts, and the process 
by which they were drawn up, comparing them to the latest Board-approved budget 
for consistency and testing the underlying calculations successfully. We also considered 
that the right CGUs were identified based on our knowledge of the business. 
With respect to the key cash flows and assumptions in the forecasts, we compared 
the current year results with the FY14 figures included in the prior year forecast 
to consider whether any assumptions had, in hindsight, been optimistic. Actual 
performance of the divisions was better than budgeted.
We also challenged the directors’ key assumptions for discount rates, growth 
rates and profit margins by comparing them to historical results. Discount rates 
are in line with industry comparators that we considered and the forecasts included 
a lower rate of growth than the Group has achieved over the last two years. 
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts. 
Our tests included applying:
• 
a discount rate increased by 20%; 
• 
zero growth in 2015 and onwards; and
• 
additional professional indemnity expenditure above that budgeted in each year 
of the forecasts. 
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually 
or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered 
the likelihood of such a movement arising and concluded that management’s 
approach was reasonable and supported by the available evidence. 
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Countrywide plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 75
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Acquisition accounting
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and page 111 (notes).
During the year the group continued to make a number of acquisitions  
with a total consideration of £48.9 million. As a result of these acquisitions 
principally the following intangible assets were recognised: customer 
contracts and relationships £7.9 million; brands £2.7 million; pipeline  
in the estate agency business £0.5 million; and goodwill of £38.7 million. 
Accounting for business combinations can be complex, particularly 
in relation to the identification of intangible assets and accounting 
for deferred consideration. The accounting treatment of intangible 
assets, including their ongoing impact on the income statement, 
varies depending on whether they are seen as having finite or 
indefinite useful economic lives, and the estimated life applied 
to those with finite lives. 
We focused on the judgements management made in these respects, 
particularly in relation to identification of intangible assets. 
We obtained all material acquisition agreements and read them to ensure that we 
understood the substance of the transaction, including the consideration and the 
assets and liabilities acquired. 
We tested cash consideration to bank statements and checked that any deferred 
consideration had been correctly recognised in line with the acquisition 
agreements, with no issues being identified.
We tested the accuracy and completeness of models used for calculating the separately 
identified intangible assets by comparing them to models used on prior acquisitions 
within the Group and to those typically used in the industry in our experience. 
We challenged management in particular on the recognition of brands, customer 
relationships and contracts and were able to corroborate these to customer lists 
and the Group’s continued use of the relevant brands post acquisition. 
We agreed the current assets and liabilities acquired, which consisted mainly 
of working capital, by agreeing them to completion statements or other similar 
supporting documentation and confirming that they had been treated in line 
with the terms of the contract.
Accounting treatment of transactions in relation 
to investments in Zoopla plc
Refer to page 50 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and page 99 (notes).
At the beginning of the year, the Group held equity shares in Zoopla Limited 
(‘Zoopla’) valued at £12.2 million which were primarily granted under an 
agreement allowing Zoopla to list the Group’s properties on the Zoopla 
website. In March 2014 the agreement, which was due to expire in 2015, 
was renewed resulting in further entitlement to new warrants (given to the 
Group at negligible cost) if specific events occurred. 
Such an event occurred in June 2014 when Zoopla listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. As a result of this, the Group received further shares in 
Zoopla on conversion of warrants pursuant to the new agreement. Further, 
the following transactions took place during the year on Zoopla’s listing:
• 
the Group had its existing shares sub-divided because of changes in 
Zoopla’s capital structure; and
• 
the Group purchased and subsequently sold shares in the Zoopla IPO.
We focused on this area because the number of material transactions 
during the year made the accounting complex and liable to error. 
In order to understand the substance as well as the legal form of the transactions 
with Zoopla, we held discussions with management and read the legal agreements 
entered into by the Group with Zoopla. We ensured the accounting reflected these 
contracts and was in accordance with the relevant accounting standards. 
We also agreed the consideration paid to purchase additional shares to bank 
statements, validated the profits recognised on the sale of shares and checked 
the sales proceeds to bank statements.
We agreed that the period end fair value reflected the quoted market price 
as at 31 December 2014. 
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure 
that we performed enough work to be able 
to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting 
processes and controls, and the industry 
in which the Group operates. 
The Group operates in seven complementary 
divisions as set out in the Annual Report (refer 
to page 88). Each of the divisions is broken 
down into a number of reporting units which 
are consolidated into the Group financial 
statements along with the centralised functions.
Reporting units from the seven divisions were 
included in the scope of our work and the 
group audit team performed an audit of their 
financial information at each of their locations. 
The engagement partner attended all clearance 
meetings either in person or by call. In some 
of the divisions we audited complete financial 
information of all the reporting units and in 
some we focused on the larger reporting units 
to give us appropriate coverage. We performed 
audit work over the complete financial 
information of reporting units which accounted 
for 97% (2013: 96%) of the Group’s revenues 
and 93% (2013: 95%) of the Group’s profit 
before tax.
Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by 
our application of materiality. We set certain 
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped 
us to determine the scope of our audit and 
the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of 
misstatements, both individually and on 
the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, 
we determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality
£4.0 million (2013: £2.9 million).
How we determined it
5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional 
items (primarily relating to income in relation to 
Zoopla shares of £17 million and professional 
indemnity charges of £15 million).
Rationale for benchmark applied
We applied this benchmark because it 
eliminates any disproportionate effect of the 
exceptional items and provides a consistent 
year-on-year basis for our work.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that 
we would report to them misstatements 
identified during our audit above £0.2 million 
(2013: £0.1 million) as well as misstatements 
below that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
76 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Report on the Group 
financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the directors’ statement, set out on 
page 70, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the 
directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis presumes that the Group has 
adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the directors intend it to do so, for 
at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit 
we have concluded that the directors’ use of 
the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, these statements 
are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
information in the Annual Report is:
• 
materially inconsistent with the 
information in the audited financial 
statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• 
otherwise misleading;
• 
the statement given by the directors on 
page 71, in accordance with provision 
C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“the Code”), that they consider the Annual 
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for members to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy is materially inconsistent with 
our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; and
• 
the section of the Annual Report on page 48 
as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee 
does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
these responsibilities.
Adequacy of information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion 
we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain 
disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the Group’s compliance 
with ten provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those 
of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial 
statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• 
whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• 
the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and 
• 
the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through 
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the company 
financial statements of Countrywide plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 and on 
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report that is described as being audited. 
Darryl Phillips
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
26 February 2015
Independent auditor’s report continued
To the members of Countrywide plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 77
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2014 2013
   Note
Pre-exceptional 
items, 
amortisation 
and share-based
payments
£’000
Exceptional 
items, 
amortisation 
and share-based 
payments 
£’000
Total
£’000
Pre-exceptional 
items, 
amortisation
and share-based 
payments
£’000
Exceptional 
items, 
amortisation 
and share-based 
payments 
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 685,094 — 685,094 570,864 — 570,864
Other income 5 17,107 — 17,107 13,904 — 13,904
4 702,201 — 702,201 584,768 — 584,768
Employee benefit costs 6 (378,327) (14,467) (392,794) (323,536) (9,070) (332,606)
Depreciation and amortisation 14, 15 (14,247) (10,112) (24,359) (11,066) (8,121) (19,187)
Other operating costs 7 (202,771) — (202,771) (174,961) — (174,961)
Share of profit from joint venture 17(b) 813 — 813 1,015 — 1,015
Group operating profit/(loss) 
before exceptional items 107,669 (24,579) 83,090 76,220 (17,191) 59,029
Exceptional income 10 — 17,098 17,098 — 2,534 2,534
Exceptional costs 10 — (15,241) (15,241) — (5,563) (5,563)
Operating profit/(loss) 4 107,669 (22,722) 84,947 76,220 (20,220) 56,000
Finance costs 8 (5,584) — (5,584) (14,264) (4,542) (18,806)
Finance income 9 285 — 285 931 — 931
Net finance costs (5,299) — (5,299) (13,333) (4,542) (17,875)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 102,370 (22,722) 79,648 62,887 (24,762) 38,125
Taxation (charge)/credit 11 (21,643) 9,931 (11,712) (12,542) 8,710 (3,832)
Profit/(loss) for the year 80,727 (12,791) 67,936 50,345 (16,052) 34,293
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 80,268 (12,791) 67,477 49,924 (16,052) 33,872
Non-controlling interests 459 — 459 421 — 421
Profit/(loss) attributable for the year 80,727 (12,791) 67,936 50,345 (16,052) 34,293
Earnings per share attributable 
to owners of the parent 
Basic earnings per share 13 30.84p 16.53p
Diluted earnings per share 13 30.01p 16.42p
The notes on pages 82 to 117 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
78 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
   Note
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Profit for the year 67,936 34,293
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising in the pension scheme 25 (2,415) 653
Deferred/(loss) tax arising on the pension scheme 25 507 (137)
(1,908) 516
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Foreign exchange rate loss (117) (27)
Available for sale financial assets:
– Gains arising during the year 17(c) 3,200 27,475
– Less reclassification adjustments for gains included in the profit and loss (11,076) —
(7,993) 27,448
Other comprehensive income for the year (9,901) 27,964
Total comprehensive income for the year 58,035 62,257
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 57,576 61,836
Non-controlling interests 459 421
Total comprehensive income for the year 58,035 62,257
The notes on pages 82 to 117 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 79
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Attributable to owners of the parent
Note
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling
interests
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2013 147,657 47,279 46,464 398 241,798 501 242,299
Profit for the year — — — 33,872 33,872 421 34,293
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences — — (27) — (27) — (27)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale  
financial assets 17(c) — — 27,475 — 27,475 — 27,475
Actuarial gain in the pension fund 25 — — — 653 653 — 653
Deferred tax movement relating to pension 25 — — — (137) (137) — (137)
Total other comprehensive income — — 27,448 516 27,964 — 27,964
Total comprehensive income — — 27,448 34,388 61,836 421 62,257
Transactions with owners
Repurchase of shares (1) — 1 (55) (55) — (55)
Cancellation of shares (146,091) — — 146,091 — — —
Capital reorganisation — (47,279) 47,279 — — — —
Shares issued at initial public offering 629 219,371 — — 220,000 — 220,000
Transactional costs of shares issued — (7,530) — — (7,530) — (7,530)
Share-based payment transactions 27 — — — 8,054 8,054 — 8,054
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — 1,235 1,235 — 1,235
Purchase of treasury shares 28 — — (226) — (226) — (226)
Dividends paid 12 — — — (4,389) (4,389) (405) (4,794)
Transactions with owners (145,463) 164,562 47,054 150,936 217,089 (405) 216,684
Balance at 1 January 2014 2,194 211,841 120,966 185,722 520,723 517 521,240
Profit for the year — — — 67,477 67,477 459 67,936
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences — — (117) — (117) — (117)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale  
financial assets 17(c) — — 3,200 — 3,200 — 3,200
Reclassification of gains on disposal 
of available-for-sale financial assets — — (11,076) — (11,076) — (11,076)
Actuarial loss in the pension fund 25 — — — (2,415) (2,415) — (2,415)
Deferred tax movement relating to pension 25 — — — 507 507 — 507
Total other comprehensive income — — (7,993) (1,908) (9,901) — (9,901)
Total comprehensive income — — (7,993) 65,569 57,576 459 58,035
Transactions with owners
Share-based payment transactions 27 — — — 11,367 11,367 — 11,367
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — (369) (369) — (369)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary — — — 260 260 (260) —
Purchase of treasury shares 28 — — (14,290) — (14,290) — (14,290)
Dividends paid 12 — — — (43,889) (43,889) (526) (44,415)
Transactions with owners — — (14,290) (32,631) (46,921) (786) (47,707)
Balance at 31 December 2014 2,194 211,841 98,683 218,660 531,378 190 531,568
The notes on pages 82 to 117 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
   Note
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 14(a) 418,496 379,834
Other intangible assets 14(b) 236,996 235,412
Property, plant and equipment 15 45,523 31,473
Investment property 16 13,235 —
Investments accounted for using the equity method: 
Investments in joint venture 17(b) 3,219 2,913
Available-for-sale financial assets 17(c) 33,290 42,877
Deferred tax assets 24 16,215 15,418
Total non-current assets 766,974 707,927
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 18 98,644 91,854
Cash and cash equivalents 19 28,583 36,325
Total current assets 127,227 128,179
Total assets 894,201 836,106
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 
Share capital 26 2,194 2,194
Share premium 211,841 211,841
Other reserves 28 98,683 120,966
Retained earnings 218,660 185,722
 531,378 520,723
Non-controlling interests 17(a) 190 517
Total equity 531,568 521,240
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 21 86,950 77,257
Defined benefit scheme liabilities 25 5,216 4,438
Provisions 23 25,457 20,337
Deferred income 22 6,961 8,297
Trade and other payables 20 4,344 7,135
Deferred tax liability 24 44,858 46,925
Total non-current liabilities 173,786 164,389
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 21 44,760 7,487
Trade and other payables 20 109,312 106,286
Deferred income 22 5,708 6,872
Provisions 23 22,035 24,778
Current tax liabilities 7,032 5,054
Total current liabilities 188,847 150,477
Total liabilities 362,633 314,866
Total equity and liabilities 894,201 836,106
The notes on pages 82 to 117 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 77 to 117 were approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
26 February 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 81
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014
   Note
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before taxation 79,648 38,125
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 15 9,824 7,406
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 14,535 11,781
Share-based payments 27 11,367 8,054
(Profit)/loss on disposal of non-current assets (including exceptional income £14,564,000) (16,949) 106
Amortisation of deferred income 10 (2,534) (2,534)
Income from joint venture 17(b) (813) (1,015)
Finance costs 8 5,584 18,806
Finance income 9 (285) (931)
100,377 79,798
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings):
Increase in trade and other receivables (4,119) (4,482)
Decrease in trade and other payables (10,309) (13,400)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 2,052 (20,808)
Net cash generated from operating activities 88,001 41,108
Interest paid (5,004) (15,404)
Income tax paid (15,531) (1,614)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 67,466 24,090
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions net of cash acquired 29 (41,017) (47,218)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (17,355) (10,028)
Purchase of intangible assets 14 (6,084) (5,138)
Purchase of non-controlling interest (857) —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 294 1,470
Proceeds from disposal of business 1,959 —
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale assets 21,302 —
Purchase of investment property 16 (13,017) —
Purchase of financial assets available-for-sale assets 17(c) (2,186) (1,054)
Dividends received 17(b) 507 778
Interest received 285 1,217
Net cash outflow from investing activities (56,169) (59,973)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital — 220,000
Transactional costs of shares issued — (7,530)
Term and revolving facility loan drawn 21 45,000 75,000
Repayment of bonds — (252,500)
Financing fees paid (813) (2,930)
Capital repayment of finance lease liabilities 21 (4,521) (1,527)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 12 (43,889) (4,389)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (526) (405)
Purchase of own shares 26 (14,290) (55)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (19,039) 25,664
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (7,742) (10,219)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 36,325 46,544
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 28,583 36,325
The notes on pages 82 to 117 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
82 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
1. General information
Countrywide plc (‘the Company’) and its 
subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) is the 
leading integrated, full service residential 
estate agency and property services group 
in the UK, measured by both revenue and 
transaction volumes in 2014. It offers estate 
agency and lettings services, together with 
a range of complementary services, and 
has a significant presence in key areas and 
property types which are promoted through 
locally respected brands.
The Company is a public limited company, 
which is listed on the London Stock Exchange 
and incorporated and domiciled in the UK 
(registered number: 08340090). The address 
of its registered office is 17 Duke Street, 
Chelmsford, Essex CM1 1HP.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in 
the preparation of these consolidated financial 
statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to the 
years presented.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the revaluation 
of available-for-sale financial assets and 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss, and in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and 
IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) 
as adopted by the European Union and 
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the consolidated financial 
information in conformity with IFRS requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates 
and requires management to exercise 
judgement in the process of applying the 
Group’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity, or areas where assumptions and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
(b) Going concern
These financial statements have been prepared 
on a going concern basis, which assumes that 
the Group will be able to meet its liabilities 
when they fall due for the foreseeable future. 
The Board of directors has reviewed cash flow 
forecasts, which have been stress tested with 
various assumptions regarding future housing 
market volumes, and concluded that it is 
appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on a going concern basis.
(c) New standards, amendments 
and interpretations
Standards, amendments and interpretations 
effective and adopted by the Group
The following standards have been adopted 
by the Group for the first time for the financial 
year beginning on or after 1 January 2014 
but none have had a material impact on 
the Group:
• 
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’: 
this amendment has not had an impact on 
the Group financial statements.
• 
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’: this 
amendment has not had an impact on 
the Group financial statements as the Group 
has historically applied the equity method 
to account for its joint venture interests.
• 
Other amendments effective for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2014 (IAS 32, 36 
and 39) have not had a material impact on 
the Group.
New standards and interpretations 
not yet adopted
A number of new standards and interpretations 
are effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2015 and have not yet 
been applied in preparing these consolidated 
financial statements. None of these new 
standards or interpretations is expected to 
have a material impact on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group, with the 
exception of the following:
• 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’; and
• 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts 
with customers’.
The directors do not expect that the adoption 
of the standards listed above will have a 
material impact on the financial statements 
of the Group in future periods, except that 
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement 
and disclosures of financial instruments and 
IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue 
recognition and related disclosures. 
(d) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the 
Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has 
rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the entity. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that 
control ceases.
During the year, the Group has consolidated the 
results and position of Albion PRS Investments 
Unit Trust (see note 16). At the year end, the 
Group controls the Unit Trust and has the 
ability to affect returns though its power over 
the Unit Trust, consolidation as a subsidiary 
has been undertaken. During 2015 further 
external investment is expected in addition 
to finalisation of a full and independent fund 
structure, which is expected to remove the 
ability of the Group to control the investment.
The purchase method of accounting is used 
to account for acquisitions and the cost of 
acquisition is measured as the fair value of 
assets given, equity instruments issued and 
liabilities incurred. Identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured at their 
fair value at the acquisition date. Acquisition 
costs are written off to the income statement. 
The accounting policies of subsidiaries acquired 
are changed, where necessary, to ensure 
consistency with policies operated by the Group. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis, either at fair value or at 
the non-controlling interest’s proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. If the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the 
acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree 
is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition 
date through profit or loss. 
Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred 
and fair value of non-controlling interest over 
the fair value of the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. If this 
consideration is lower than the fair value 
of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, 
the difference is recognised in profit or loss. 
Transactions with non-controlling interests 
that do not result in loss of control are 
accounted for as equity transactions – that 
is, as transactions with the owners in their 
capacity as owners. The difference between 
fair value of any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value 
of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded 
in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to 
non-controlling interests are also recorded 
in equity.
Notes to the financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 83
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2. Accounting policies continued
(d) Basis of consolidation continued
Joint ventures
Under the equity method of accounting, 
interests in joint ventures are initially recognised 
at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise 
the Group’s share of the post-acquisition 
profits or losses and movements in other 
comprehensive income. When the Group’s 
share of losses in a joint venture equals 
or exceeds its interests in the joint venture, 
the Group does not recognise further losses 
except to the extent that it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the joint venture. Accounting policies of the 
joint venture are aligned where applicable. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-group balances, and any gains and 
losses or income and expenses arising from 
intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial information. 
Gains arising from transactions with jointly 
controlled entities are eliminated to the 
extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. 
Losses are eliminated in the same way as 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment. 
(e) Foreign currency translation 
The functional currency of the Company is 
Pounds Sterling because that is the currency 
of the primary economic environment in 
which the Group operates. The Group’s 
presentation currency is Pounds Sterling. 
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated 
into the functional currency using the exchange 
rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting 
from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange 
rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the income statement. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses that 
relate to borrowings and cash and cash 
equivalents are presented in the income 
statement within ‘finance income or costs’. 
All other foreign exchange gains and losses 
are presented in the income statement within 
‘other income’ or ‘other operating costs’.
Group companies 
The results and financial position of all the 
Group entities (none of which has the currency 
of a hyperinflationary economy) that have 
a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into 
the presentation currency as follows:
• 
assets and liabilities for each balance sheet 
presented are translated at the closing rate 
at the date of that balance sheet;
• 
income and expenses for each income 
statement presented are translated at 
average exchange rates (unless this average 
is not a reasonable approximation of the 
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing 
on the transaction dates, in which case 
income and expenses are translated at the 
rate on the dates of the transactions); and 
• 
all resulting exchange differences are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated 
as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. Exchange 
differences arising are recognised in equity.
The following exchange rates were applied 
for £1 Sterling at 31 December: 
2014 2013
Hong Kong Dollars 12.10 12.66
Euros 1.28 1.20
Barbadian Dollars 3.12 3.31
(f) Property, plant and equipment 
Investment property
Investment property, which is property held 
to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is 
initially measured at cost, including related 
transaction costs, and is then stated at fair 
value. Changes in the fair value of investment 
property are included in profits for the year 
to which they relate. The valuation methods 
applied are detailed in note 16.
Owned assets 
Items of property, plant and equipment are 
stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Cost 
includes the original purchase price of the 
asset and the costs attributable to bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use. When parts of an item of property, plant 
and equipment have different useful lives, those 
components are accounted for as separate 
items of property, plant and equipment. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the Group and the cost 
of the item can be measured reliably.
Gains and losses on disposals are 
determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised 
in the income statement.
Leased assets 
Leases under which the Group assumes 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of an asset are classified as finance 
leases. Property, plant and equipment acquired 
under finance leases is recorded at fair value 
or, if lower, the present value of minimum 
lease payments at inception of the lease, 
less accumulated depreciation and any 
impairment losses.
Each lease payment is allocated between the 
liability and finance charges. The corresponding 
rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included within borrowings. The interest 
element of the finance cost is charged to the 
income statement over the lease period so 
as to produce a constant periodic rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability 
for each period. The property, plant and 
equipment under finance leases is depreciated 
over the shorter of the useful life of the asset 
and lease term.
Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on 
a straight line basis over the estimated useful 
lives of each part of an item of property, plant 
and equipment. The property, plant and 
equipment acquired under finance leases 
is depreciated over the shorter of the useful 
life of the asset and the lease term. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. The estimated useful 
lives are as follows: 
• 
Freehold buildings – 50 years 
• 
Leasehold improvements – over the 
period of the lease 
• 
Furniture and equipment – three to five years 
• 
Motor vehicles – three to five years 
The residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, 
at each balance sheet date.
(g) Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions 
of subsidiaries and joint ventures. Goodwill 
represents the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s 
share of the net identifiable assets of the 
acquiree at the date of acquisition and the 
value of the non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree. Acquisition costs are written off 
to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to 
cash generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate potential impairment.
In respect of joint ventures, the carrying amount 
of goodwill is included in the carrying amount 
of the investment in the joint venture. 
Excess of acquirer’s interest in the net 
fair value of acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost 
arising on an acquisition is recognised in 
the income statement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting policies continued
(g) Intangible assets continued
Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are 
acquired by the Group, principally acquired 
brands, customer contracts and relationships, 
computer software, pipeline and other 
intangibles, are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation, where charged, and impairment 
losses. Brands are considered to have 
indefinite lives.
Acquired computer software is capitalised 
on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire 
and bring to use the specific software. 
Internal costs that are incurred during the 
development of significant and separately 
identifiable computer software for use in the 
business are capitalised where the software 
is integral to the generation of future economic 
benefits. Internal costs that are capitalised 
are limited to incremental costs specific to 
the project. Other development expenditures 
that do not meet the criteria for capitalisation 
are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Development costs previously recognised 
as an expense are not recognised as an 
asset in a subsequent period.
Amortisation 
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on 
a straight line basis over the estimated useful 
lives of intangible assets unless such lives 
are indefinite. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
• 
Computer software – one to five years
• 
Brand names – indefinite life
Assets are tested annually for impairment 
or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate potential impairment. 
• 
Customer contacts and relationships – 
five to ten years
• 
Pipeline (agreed but un-exchanged house 
sales at date of acquisition) – three months
• 
Other intangibles – 25 years
(h) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s 
non-current assets are reviewed for impairment 
annually or whenever events and changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. If any such 
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. 
In respect of goodwill, intangible assets that 
have an indefinite useful life and intangible 
assets that are not yet available for use, the 
recoverable amount is estimated at each 
balance sheet date. The recoverable amount 
is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use.
Impairment losses represent the amount 
by which the carrying value exceeds the 
recoverable amount; they are recognised  
in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised 
in respect of cash generating units are allocated 
first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit 
and then to reduce the carrying amount of 
the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is 
not reversed. In respect of other assets, an 
impairment loss is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the 
extent that the asset’s carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation 
or amortisation, if no impairment loss had 
been recognised. 
(i) Financial assets 
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets as 
loans and receivables and available-for-sale 
financial assets. The classification depends 
on the purpose for which the financial assets 
were acquired. Management determines 
the classification of its financial assets at 
initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative 
financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that arise principally through the 
provision of services to customers. They 
are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. They are included 
in current assets, except for maturities greater 
than twelve months after the end of the 
reporting period. Loans and receivables 
comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents 
and trade and other receivables. 
Available-for-sale
Available-for-sale financial assets are 
non-derivative financial assets that are either 
designated in this category or not classified 
in any of the other categories. They are 
included in non-current assets unless the 
investment matures or management intends 
to dispose of it within twelve months of the 
end of the reporting period.
Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets 
are recognised on the trade date: the date 
on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised 
when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the investments have expired or have been 
transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Loans and receivables and available-for-sale 
financial assets are initially recognised at 
fair value. Available-for-sale financial assets 
are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans 
and receivables are subsequently carried 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Changes in the fair value of monetary 
and non-monetary securities classified 
as available-for-sale are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. 
When securities classified as available for sale 
are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value 
adjustments recognised in equity are included 
in the income statement as ‘gains and losses 
from investment securities’. Dividends on 
available-for-sale equity instruments are 
recognised in the income statement as part 
of other income when the Group’s right to 
receive payments is established. 
Impairment of financial assets 
Impairment provisions are recognised when 
there is objective evidence (such as significant 
financial difficulties on the part of the 
counterparty or default or significant delay 
in payment) that the Group will be unable 
to collect all of the amounts due under the 
terms receivable, the amount of such a 
provision being the difference between the 
net carrying amount and the present value 
of the future expected cash flows associated 
with the impaired receivable. 
For trade receivables, which are reported net 
of provisions, such provisions are recorded in 
a separate provision account with the loss being 
recognised within other operating costs in 
the income statement. On confirmation that 
the trade receivable will not be collectable, 
the gross carrying value of the asset is 
written off against the associated provision. 
In the case of assets classified as available 
for sale, impairment losses are recognised in 
the consolidated income statement and arise 
from objective evidence that these assets 
have declined in value such as a significant 
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
security below its cost.
(j) Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised 
initially at fair value and subsequently measured 
at amortised cost less an impairment provision. 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms 
of the receivables. 
(k) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash 
balances and call deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management 
are included as a component of cash and 
cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
statement of cash flows and are presented 
in current liabilities. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 85
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2. Accounting policies continued
(l) Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially 
at fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost.
(m) Borrowings 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, 
net of transaction costs incurred. Such interest 
bearing liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method, which ensures that any interest 
expense over the period to repayment is at 
a constant rate on the balance of the liability 
carried in the balance sheet. Interest expense 
in this context includes initial transaction 
costs and premiums payable on redemption, 
as well as any interest payable while the 
liability is outstanding. 
(n) Options to acquire 
non-controlling interest 
Options to acquire non-controlling interests 
in the future are initially accounted for at fair 
value with a corresponding charge directly 
to equity. Such options are subsequently 
measured at fair value, using the effective 
interest rate method, in order to accrete 
the liability up to the amount payable under 
the option at the date at which it becomes 
exercisable. The charge arising is recorded 
as a finance cost and the liability is shown 
in other financial liabilities. The risks and rewards 
of ownership of the non-controlling interests 
remain with the sellers and therefore the 
non-controlling interest is recognised by the 
Group. The put options are contractual puts 
at the discretion of the sellers.
(o) Pensions 
The Group operates various post-employment 
schemes, including both defined benefit and 
defined contribution pension plans.
Defined contribution plans
The Group pays fixed contributions to 
separately administered pension insurance 
plans. The Group has no further obligations 
once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are recognised as an employee 
benefit expense when they are due. 
Defined benefit plans 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet 
in respect of defined benefit pension plans 
is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period 
less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of 
the defined benefit obligation is determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and 
that have terms to maturity approximating to 
the terms of the related pension obligation. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are charged or credited 
to equity in other comprehensive income 
in the period in which they arise. 
Past service costs are recognised 
immediately in income.
(p) Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled 
share-based schemes under which the Group 
receives services from employees as 
consideration for equity instruments (options) 
of the Group. The fair value of the employee 
services received in exchange for the grant 
of the options is recognised as an expense. 
Where the share awards have non-market 
related performance criteria the Group has 
used the Binomial Lattice and Black Scholes 
option valuation models to establish the 
relevant fair values. Where the share awards 
have a TSR market related performance 
criteria the Group has used the Monte Carlo 
simulation valuation model to establish the 
relevant fair values (see note 27). The resulting 
values are amortised through the income 
statement over the vesting period of the 
options and other grants.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group 
revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market conditions and recognises the 
impact of the revision to original estimates, 
if any, in the income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity. 
The social security contributions payable in 
connection with the grant of the share options 
is considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a 
cash-settled transaction.
(q) Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet 
when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation. Provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows 
at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money 
and, when appropriate, the risks specific 
to the liability. The increase in the provision 
due to passage of time is recognised in 
finance costs. 
(r) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to 
the issue of new shares are shown in share 
premium as a deduction from the proceeds. 
Where the employee benefit trust purchases 
the Company’s equity share capital (treasury 
shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs, 
is deducted from equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders until the shares 
are cancelled or reissued.
(s) Revenue 
Services rendered 
Revenue comprises mainly commission 
and fees receivable. Commission earned 
on sales of residential and commercial 
property is accounted for on the exchange 
of contracts for such sales. Survey, valuation 
and conveyancing fees are accounted for 
on completion of the service being provided. 
Commission earned on sales of insurance 
policies, mortgages and related products is 
accounted for when the policies go on risk 
or the mortgage is exchanged. Commissions 
and fees earned under lettings contracts are 
recognised at the point of delivery of the 
service. Revenue generated by Surveying 
Services from panel management contracts 
is reported net of any fees paid on behalf 
of panel valuers, reflecting the fact that 
the Group does not act as the principal 
in these contracts.
Revenue in respect of consultancy services 
performed is recognised as activity progresses 
to reflect the Group’s partial performance of 
its contractual obligations. Activity performance 
in excess of invoices raised is included within 
‘amounts due from customers for contract work’ . 
Where amounts have been invoiced in excess 
of work performed, the excess is included 
within ‘amounts due to customers for contract 
work’ . If the right to consideration is conditional 
or contingent on a specified future event or 
outcome, the outcome of which is outside 
the control of the Group, revenue is not 
recognised until that critical event occurs.
Under certain service contracts, the Group 
manages client expenditure and is obliged to 
purchase goods and services from suppliers 
and recharge them on to the customer at 
cost. The amounts charged by suppliers and 
recharged to clients are excluded from revenue 
and administrative expenses. Receivables, 
payables and cash relating to these transactions 
are included in the balance sheet.
Deferred income
Where the Group receives an amount upfront 
in respect of future income streams, the value 
of the receipt is amortised over the period 
of the contract as the services are delivered 
and the unexpired element is disclosed in 
liabilities as deferred income.
(t) Other income 
Other income is recognised when its receipt 
is assured and the Group has no further 
obligations to any other party in respect 
of that income. Rental income from sub-let 
properties is recognised in profit or loss on 
a straight line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives granted are recognised 
as an integral part of the total rental income. 
Dividend income is recognised when the 
right to receive payment is established.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
86 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting policies continued
(u) Operating lease payments 
Payments under operating leases are 
recognised in profit or loss on a straight 
line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised 
in profit or loss as an integral part of the 
total lease expense. 
(v) Net finance costs 
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable 
on borrowings (including finance lease 
commitments), net interest costs on the 
pension scheme liabilities, the unwinding 
of the discount rates in respect of financial 
liabilities and provisions, premiums payable 
on settlement or redemption and direct issue 
costs. Interest costs accrue using the effective 
interest method. Fees paid on the establishment 
of loan facilities are recognised as transaction 
costs of the loan and amortised over the 
period to which the facility relates. 
Finance income
Finance income comprises interest receivable 
on funds invested. Interest income is recognised 
in profit or loss as it accrues using the effective 
interest method.
(w) Exceptional items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation and 
disclosure’ certain items are presented 
separately in the income statement as 
exceptional where, in the judgement of 
the directors, they need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size 
or incidence in order to obtain a clear 
and consistent presentation of the Group’s 
underlying business performance. Examples 
of material and non-recurring items which 
may give rise to disclosure as exceptional 
items include costs of restructuring existing 
businesses, integration of newly acquired 
businesses, asset impairments and costs 
associated with acquiring new businesses. 
The columnar presentation of our income 
statement separates exceptional items, 
amortisation of intangibles arising on 
business acquisitions and share-based 
payments to illustrate consistently the 
Group’s underlying business performance.
(x) Income tax 
Income tax comprises current and deferred 
tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or 
loss except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case 
it is recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity respectively. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on 
the taxable income for the year, using tax 
rates enacted or substantially enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for 
taxation purposes. 
The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; 
the initial recognition of other assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor 
taxable profit; and differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that 
they are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The amount of deferred tax provided 
is based on the expected manner of realisation 
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when there is a legally enforceable right 
to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income 
taxes assets and liabilities relate to income 
taxes levied by the same taxation authority 
on either the taxable entity or different taxable 
entities where there is an intention to settle 
the balances on a net basis.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries and joint ventures, except for 
deferred income tax liability where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference 
is controlled by the Group and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
Additional income taxes that arise from the 
distribution of dividends are recognised at 
the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend. 
(y) Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting to the 
Governance and Performance Committee 
which has been identified as the chief 
operating decision maker. 
(z) Dividend distribution 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s 
shareholders is recognised as a liability 
in the Group’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved 
by the Company’s shareholders. Interim 
dividends are recognised when paid.
3. Critical accounting judgements 
and estimates 
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements under IFRS requires the 
directors to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities. Estimates and judgements 
are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors 
including expectations of future events that 
are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates, given the uncertainty 
surrounding the assumptions and conditions 
upon which the estimates are based. 
The directors consider that the following 
estimates and judgements are likely to have 
the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements. 
Professional indemnity provisions
When evaluating the impact of potential 
liabilities arising from claims against the 
Group, the Group takes legal and professional 
advice to assist it in arriving at its estimation 
of the liability taking into account the 
probability of the success of any claims and 
also the likely development of claims based 
on recent trends. 
The Group has made provision for claims 
received under its professional indemnity 
insurance arrangements. The provision can 
be broken down to three categories:
• 
Reserves for known claims: These losses 
are recommended by our professional 
claims handlers and approved panel law 
firms who take into account all the 
information available on the claims and 
recorded on our insurance bordereaux. 
Where there is insufficient information on 
which to assess the potential losses, initial 
reserves may be set at an initial level to 
cover investigative costs or nil. Further 
provisions are also made for specific large 
claims which may be subject to litigation 
and the directors assess the level of these 
provisions based on legal advice and the 
likelihood of success.
• 
Provision for the losses on known claims 
to increase: It can take one to two years 
for claims to develop after they are initially 
notified to the Group. For this reason, the 
Group creates a provision based on historical 
loss rates for closed claims and average 
losses for closed claims. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 87
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
3. Critical accounting judgements 
and estimates continued
Professional indemnity provisions 
continued
• 
Provision for incurred but not reported 
(IBNR): The Group also provides for future 
liabilities arising from claims IBNR for 
mortgage valuation reports and home 
buyer reports performed by the Surveying 
Services division. This provision is estimated 
on a future projection of historical data for 
all claims received based on the number of 
surveys undertaken to date. This projection 
takes into account the historic claim rate, 
claim liability rate and the average loss per 
claim. In view of the significant events in 
the financial markets and the UK property 
market in recent years, the directors have 
identified a separate sub-population of 
claims received which is tracked separately 
from the normal level of claims. This 
sub-population has been defined as claims 
received since 2008 for surveys carried 
out between 2004 and 2007. 
The estimate of these provisions by their 
nature is judgemental. The three key inputs, 
claim rate, claim liability rate and average loss, 
are very sensitive to any change in trends. 
Claim rate – the number of claims 
received compared to the number 
of surveys performed.
During 2014 the number of claims received 
declined by 60% but it was still higher than 
expected as we saw an emerging trend of 
claims greater than six years being submitted. 
Of the claims received, 69% were for surveys 
over six years old, the remainder primarily 
relating to 2008 surveys which approached 
the end of their six year contractual statute 
of limitation. Historically, there has been little 
experience of old claims on which to base 
any future model; however we have increased 
the rate in our model going forwards. 
There is a possible risk that a significant rise 
in mortgage interest rates could lead to an 
increase in repossessions and potential losses 
being incurred by the lenders. But since 
there are no macro-economic indicators 
that this is a reasonable likelihood in the 
short term, the directors do not consider it 
appropriate to provide for additional claims 
due to macro-economic changes. But it 
should be noted that a 5% increase in the 
claim rate could lead to a £3 million increase 
in the provision for future claims.
Liability rate – the number of claims closed 
with a loss compared to the number of 
closed claims.
A great deal of progress had been made 
during the year to close the claims in the 
system. Many of these claims are subject to 
protracted dealings with legal firms and can 
not easily be managed. Nevertheless, we 
experienced an increase in the number of 
claims resulting in a loss owing to a higher 
proportion of older and more difficult claims 
being settled in the year. As we are now 
resolving the older more complex claims, 
and the new claims being received for older 
surveys present more challenges researching 
the older files and historically available data, 
we anticipate that the liability rate will increase 
and have increased the provision accordingly. 
Since the liability rate is sensitive to changes 
we have used the average liability rate for 
claims closed over two years. In 2014 our 
experience was significantly above historic 
averages, partly due to a lower number of 
files being closed. However, post year end 
the number of claims settled with no loss 
has resulted in this rate reducing closer 
to the two year average. If we applied this 
higher rate derived from a shorter period 
(i.e. the average claim rate of 2014 and 2015 
to date) to all outstanding claims, the provision 
may need to be increased by £1.2 million. 
Management does not consider it necessary 
to make this additional provision because 
calculating the rate over short period of 
time increases the distortion arising from 
short term timing differences arising from 
administration and legal processes.
Average loss – the average of total incurred 
losses for closed claims.
For claims relating to the 2004–2007 period, 
the average loss per claim increased by 
14% in 2014. This increase is attributed to 
the increasing complexity of the remaining 
claims being closed. We take every effort to 
mitigate losses and we also operate a very 
successful accelerated dispute resolution 
process with our key lenders, agreeing 
settlements directly and significantly reducing 
the legal fees. The directors have reviewed 
this input and consider that the level of 
change is within normal fluctuations and 
therefore do not propose to uplift the average 
loss but note that a 15% increase to the 
average loss for existing open claims would 
add £0.8 million to the provision.
Accounting for acquisitions
The Group accounts for all business 
combinations under the purchase method. 
Under the purchase method, the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed are measured at their fair 
value at the acquisition date. Judgements 
and estimates are made in respect of the 
measurement of the fair values of assets 
and liabilities acquired and consideration 
transferred. Where necessary, the Group 
engages external valuation experts to advise 
on fair value estimates, or otherwise performs 
estimates internally. 
Impairment of goodwill and 
indefinite lived intangible assets
Determining whether goodwill and indefinite 
lived intangible assets are impaired requires 
an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which the assets have 
been allocated. Calculating the cash flows 
requires the use of judgements and estimates 
that have been included in our strategic plans 
and long range forecasts. In addition, judgement 
is required to estimate the appropriate interest 
rate to be used to discount the future cash 
flows. The data necessary for the execution 
of the impairment tests are based on 
management estimates of future cash flows, 
which require estimating revenue growth 
rates and profit margins. Further details of 
impairment reviews are set out in note 14. 
Accounting treatment of transactions 
in relation to Zoopla Property Group plc
During 2014 there were a number of 
transactions undertaken in respect of the 
Group’s holding in Zoopla Property Group 
Limited shares (classified as available-for-sale 
at the 2013 year end). Given the interpretation 
of legal agreements and potential complexity 
of transactions, each of the transaction stages 
outlined in the Report of the Audit and Risk 
Committee on page 50 was subject to review.
Fair value of available-for-sale assets
Available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets are 
non-derivatives valued on the following basis:
• 
listed shares held by the Group that are 
traded on an active market are classified 
as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
value are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in the AFS revaluation 
reserve with the exception of impairment 
losses which are recognised directly in profit 
and loss. Where the investment is disposed 
of or is determined to be impaired, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
in the AFS revaluation reserve is reclassified 
to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are 
recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s 
right to receive the dividends is established.
Share-based payments
At the end of each reporting period, the Group 
revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises 
the impact of the revision to original estimates, 
if any, in the income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
4. Segmental reporting
Management has determined the operating segments based on the operating reports reviewed by the Governance and Performance Committee 
that are used to assess both performance and strategic decisions. Management has identified that the Governance and Performance Committee 
is the chief operating decision maker in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’.
The Governance and Performance Committee considers the business to be split into seven main types of business generating revenue: 
Estate Agency, London & Premier, Lettings, Financial Services, Surveying Services, Conveyancing Services and Lambert Smith Hampton 
divisions, and ‘all other segments’ comprise central head office functions.
The Estate Agency division generates commission earned on sales of residential and commercial property. The London & Premier division 
revenue is earned from both estate agency commissions and lettings and management fees. The Lettings division earns fees from the letting 
and management of residential properties and fees for the management of leasehold properties. The Financial Services division receives 
commission from the sale of insurance policies, mortgages and related products under contracts with financial service providers. Surveying 
services comprises surveying and valuation fees which are received primarily under contracts with financial institutions with some survey fees 
being earned from home buyers. Conveyancing services generates revenue from conveyancing work undertaken from customers buying or 
selling houses through our network. Lambert Smith Hampton’s revenue is earned from commercial property consultancy and advisory services, 
property management and valuation services. Other income generated by head office functions, relates primarily to sub-let rental income 
or other sundry fees.
The Governance and Performance Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted EBITDA. 
This measurement basis excludes the effects of exceptional items, share-based payment charges and related National Insurance contributions, 
management fees and income from joint ventures. Finance income and costs are not allocated to the segments, as this type of activity is driven 
by the central treasury activities as part of managing the cash position of the Group.
Revenue and other income from external customers arising from activities in the UK was £701,710,000 (2013: £584,047,000) and that 
arising from activities overseas was £491,000 (2013: £721,000).
The assets and liabilities for each operating segment represent those assets and liabilities arising directly from the operating activities of each 
division. Pension assets and liabilities and liabilities arising from the term loan and revolving credit facility are not allocated to operating segments, 
but allocated in full to ‘all other segments’ within the segmental analysis. All inter-segment pricing is done on an arm’s length basis. Non-current 
assets attributable to the UK of £766,956,000 (2013: £707,903,000) are included in the total assets in the tables on the following pages. 
Non-current assets of £18,000 (2013: £24,000) are attributable to the overseas operations. The equity investment in joint venture is disclosed 
within ‘all other segments’ and is £3,219,000 (2013: £2,913,000).
The available-for-sale financial assets are disclosed within: ‘all other segments’ £30,957,000 (2013: £42,877,000) and Estate Agency 
£2,333,000 (2013: £Nil).
There are no differences from the last annual financial statements in the basis of measurement of segment profit or loss. 
2014
 
Estate
Agency 
£’000
London 
& Premier
£’000
Lettings
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Surveying
Services
£’000 
Conveyancing
Services
£’000 
Lambert 
Smith
Hampton
£’000
All other
segments
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 214,246 115,964 128,971 73,426 57,785 27,871 72,640 — 690,903
Other income 1,051 2,911 5,658 1,269 201 699 158 5,160 17,107
Total income 215,297 118,875 134,629 74,695 57,986 28,570 72,798 5,160 708,010
Inter-segment revenue (4,802) (32) — (975) — — — — (5,809)
Total income from external customers 210,495 118,843 134,629 73,720 57,986 28,570 72,798 5,160 702,201
EBITDA before exceptional items 28,195 23,274 39,266 16,386 13,603 9,310 8,357 (17,288) 121,103
Share-based payments (1,840) (331) (704) (111) (330) (159) (12) (10,980) (14,467)
Depreciation and amortisation (4,841) (2,961) (5,255) (5,444) (1,891) (587) (1,529) (1,851) (24,359)
Share of profit from joint venture — — — — — — — 813 813
Exceptional income — — — — — — — 17,098 17,098
Exceptional costs — — — — (15,241) — — — (15,241)
Segment operating profit/(loss) 21,514 19,982 33,307 10,831 (3,859) 8,564 6,816 (12,208) 84,947
Finance income 285
Finance costs (5,584)
Profit before tax 79,648
Total assets 172,968 146,445 155,826 128,972 187,150 66,376 70,932 (34,468) 894,201
Total liabilities 64,897 28,953 24,612 21,523 33,898 6,099 32,436 150,215 362,633
Additions in the year
Goodwill 2,472 6,891 27,680 — — 1,083 600 — 38,726
Intangible assets 3,455 1,663 8,096 343 1,349 537 332 1,418 17,193
Property, plant and equipment 6,555 6,263 867 1,237 424 172 1,132 7,650 24,300 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 89
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
4. Segmental reporting continued
2013
 
Estate
Agency 
£’000
London 
& Premier
£’000
Lettings
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Surveying
Services
£’000 
Conveyancing
Services
£’000 
Lambert 
Smith
Hampton
£’000
All other
segments
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 196,315 113,081 107,902 64,219 53,495 24,728 16,544 — 576,284
Other income 1,095 2,606 4,613 1,650 126 967 38 2,809 13,904
Total income 197,410 115,687 112,515 65,869 53,621 25,695 16,582 2,809 590,188
Inter-segment revenue (4,442) (53) — (925) — — — — (5,420)
Total income from external customers 192,968 115,634 112,515 64,944 53,621 25,695 16,582 2,809 584,768
EBITDA before exceptional items 16,131 24,176 28,624 12,213 11,834 8,435 2,304 (17,087) 86,630
Management fee — — — — — — — (359) (359)
Share-based payments (1,036) (130) (415) (35) (147) (91) — (7,216) (9,070)
Depreciation and amortisation (3,085) (2,479) (4,294) (5,358) (1,573) (398) (250) (1,750) (19,187)
Share of profit from joint venture — — — — — — — 1,015 1,015
Exceptional income — — — — — — — 2,534 2,534
Exceptional costs (86) (116) (395) (20) (57) — — (4,889) (5,563)
Segment operating profit/(loss) 11,924 21,451 23,520 6,800 10,057 7,946 2,054 (27,752) 56,000
Finance income 931
Finance costs (18,806)
Profit before tax 38,125
Total assets 184,586 153,269 124,039 123,680 193,702 65,100 61,489 (69,759) 836,106
Total liabilities 66,993 29,431 26,047 24,242 30,980 5,031 30,953 101,189 314,866
Additions in the year
Goodwill — — 19,344 — — — 3,973 — 23,317
Intangible assets 947 319 5,338 582 1,624 927 37,169 6,588 53,494
Property, plant and equipment 5,302 1,868 2,534 46 303 44 854 5,908 16,859
5. Other income 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Rent receivable 1,569 1,064
Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 1,395 1,536
Other operating income 14,143 11,304
17,107 13,904
Other operating income comprises a number of items, but principally relates to income arising from client accounting taxation services 
and commission earned on energy performance certification.
6. Employees and directors 
(a) Employee costs for the Group during the year
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Wages and salaries 336,799 287,996
Share options granted to directors and employees (note 27) 12,860 7,360
Defined contribution pension cost (note 25) 5,637 4,804
Defined benefit scheme costs 105 124
Social security costs 37,393 32,322
392,794 332,606 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Employees and directors continued
(a) Employee costs for the Group during the year continued
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed: 
By business segment
2014
Number 
2013
Number 
Estate Agency 3,760 3,612
London & Premier 1,208 1,119
Lettings 2,217 1,897
Financial Services 998 904
Surveying Services 650 547
Conveyancing Services 389 355
Lambert Smith Hampton 904 210
Head office 203 182
10,329 8,826
(b) Key management compensation 
The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Governance and Performance Committee 
including the executive directors.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Wages and salaries 4,032 4,115
Short term non-monetary benefits 52 62
Share-based payments 9,427 5,989
Post-employment benefits 134 129
13,645 10,295
7. Other operating costs 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Rent 27,320 26,134
Advertising and marketing expenditure 19,698 16,937
Vehicles, plant and equipment hire 17,536 15,792
Other motoring costs 13,293 11,171
Repairs and maintenance 7,081 5,284
Trade receivables impairment 1,181 1,099
Profit on disposal of business (2,133) —
Profit on revaluation of investment property (218) —
(Profit)/loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment (4) 106
Other 119,017 98,438
Total operating costs 202,771 174,961
Services provided by the Company’s auditor and network firms
During the year the Company (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor at costs 
as detailed below: 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 135 154
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 421 347
– audit related assurance services 44 44
– non-audit services (of which £1 million relates to IPO related services in 2013) 20 1,054
– tax advisory services 60 48
–  services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into on behalf 
of the Company 97 152
 777 1,799 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 91
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
8. Finance costs
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Interest costs:
Interest payable on borrowings 141 642
Interest payable on term loan/loan notes (including £2.5 million of exceptional items in 2013 – see note 10) 2,899 13,107
Interest payable on revolving credit facility 525 416
Interest arising from finance leases 581 328
Other interest paid 42 625
Cash payable interest 4,188 15,118
Amortisation of loan facility fee (including £2.0 million of exceptional items in 2013 – see note 10) 1,160 3,243
Net interest costs arising on the pension scheme 158 255
Other finance costs 78 190
Non-cash payable interest 1,396 3,688
Finance costs 5,584 18,806
9. Finance income 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Interest income 285 931
10. Exceptional items
The following items have been included in arriving at profit/(loss) before taxation:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Exceptional income
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 14,564 —
Deferred income amortisation arising from fair valuation of Zoopla shares crystallised upon the merger in May 2012 2,534 2,534
17,098 2,534
Exceptional costs
IPO related
Exceptional costs charged to operating profit
Costs incurred in relation to the IPO — (3,979)
Share-based payment cost in relation to accelerated management incentive plan — (694)
Exceptional costs charged to finance costs
Early redemption penalty incurred on redemption of £250 million Senior Secured Notes — (2,500)
Accelerated amortisation of capitalised finance costs relating to cancelled facilities — (2,042)
— (9,215)
Non-IPO related
Exceptional costs charged to operating profit
Insurance claims and litigations (15,241) —
Acquisition expenses — (890)
Total exceptional costs (15,241) (10,105)
Net exceptional income/(costs) 1,857 (7,571)
2014
Exceptional income
During 2014 there has been continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to Zoopla warrants detailed below which will continue 
to unwind over the period to 31 December 2015.
In addition, the Group disposed of a significant proportion of its shareholding in Zoopla Property Group plc as part of the IPO process in June 2014 
and the associated profit is disclosed above.
Exceptional costs
As part of the year-end process in 2014, the Group performed a detailed review of the latest data and trends on professional indemnity (PI) 
costs and believed that it was prudent to increase the provision for PI claims accordingly. The key elements behind this charge are an unexpected 
level of claims brought about under common law outside of the primary statutory limitation period, rather than under contract law, together with 
a slight deterioration of claims previously notified and an increase in the average loss per claim. Further information can be found in note 3 – 
Critical accounting judgements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Exceptional items continued
2013
Exceptional income
In May 2012 Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group crystallising a number of warrants, which were granted to the Group under 
an agreement to list properties on the Zoopla website, which converted to ordinary shares. At the merger date, the Group fair valued these 
shares at £12.2 million. The shares were consideration for services provided to Zoopla over a period of time to 2015 and therefore recognised 
as deferred income. The deferred income is being amortised to the income statement over the period to 2015 and the income recognised 
relates to one year of amortisation.
Exceptional costs
In March 2013 the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange under a new holding company, Countrywide plc. The costs charged to 
the income statement relate to costs incurred as a result of the listing but not directly related to the issue of new shares. These costs include 
such items as marketing expenditure, executive search and selection and additional PAYE and NI triggered due to payments before the tax 
year end.
In May 2013 the Group repaid the £250 million Senior Secured Notes; as a result of the early redemption a penalty charge of £2.5 million 
was incurred. At the same time, the existing revolving credit facility was cancelled and these events triggered the acceleration of previously 
capitalised finance costs.
Acquisition expenses principally relate to the costs of acquisition of Lambert Smith Hampton which, as a material acquisition in the current 
year, has been treated as exceptional.
11. Taxation
Analysis of charge in year
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Current tax on profits for the year 17,241 7,521
Adjustments in respect of prior years (701) (1,894)
Total current tax 16,540 5,627
Deferred tax on profits for the year
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (3,747) 1,385
Impact of change in tax rate (1,219) (2,230)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 138 (950)
Total deferred tax (note 24) (4,828) (1,795)
Income tax charge 11,712 3,832
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Tax on items (charged)/credited to equity
Deferred tax adjustment arising on share-based payments (369) 1,235
Tax on items credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income
Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 507 (137)
The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.49% (2013: 23.25%). The differences are 
explained below: 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 79,648 38,125
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.49% (2013: 23.25%) 17,116 8,864
Effects of:
Profits from joint venture (175) (236)
Other expenses not deductible 1,459 1,419
Permanent difference relating to depreciation not deductible 231 104
Tax relief on purchased goodwill (302) (273)
Utilisation of unprovided losses — (18)
Rate change on deferred tax provision (1,219) (2,230)
Income not subject to tax due to availability of capital losses (4,850) (962)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (563) (2,844)
Overseas losses 15 8
Total taxation charge 11,712 3,832
The changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies announced in the March 2013 Budget were substantively enacted for 
financial reporting purposes on 2 July 2013. The main rate of corporation tax will further reduce to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured using a rate of 20%.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 93
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
12. Dividends
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
– final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.0 pence (net) per share 13,167 —
–  interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 5.0 pence (net) per share  
(2013: 2.0 pence (net) per share) 10,972 4,389
– special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 9.0 pence (net) per share 19,750 —
Total 43,889 4,389
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 10.0 pence (net) per share, amounting to an estimated total dividend of 
£21.9 million, is to be proposed at the annual general meeting (AGM) on 29 April 2015. In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance 
sheet date’, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares of Countrywide plc and, for periods prior to 25 March 2013, the weighted average number of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd 
shares as converted into Countrywide plc shares.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 67,477 33,872
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,811,538 204,968,140
Basic earnings per share (in pence per share) 30.84p 16.53p
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares arising from share options.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 67,477 33,872
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,811,538 204,968,140
Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable share options 6,047,243 1,275,640
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 224,858,781 206,243,780
Diluted earnings per share (in pence per share) 30.01p 16.42p
Adjusted earnings
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 67,477 33,872
Adjusted for the following items, net of taxation:
Amortisation arising on intangibles recognised through business combinations 5,990 2,738
Share-based payments charge 10,326 6,508
NI on share-based payments charge 1,607 1,351
Exceptional income (17,098) (2,534)
Exceptional costs 11,966 4,502
Exceptional finance costs — 3,487
Adjusted earnings, net of taxation 80,268 49,924
Adjusted basic earnings per share (in pence per share) 36.68p 24.36p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (in pence per share) 35.70p 24.21p
14. Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 797,190 773,873
Arising on acquisitions (note 29) 38,726 23,317
Disposals (64) —
At 31 December 835,852 797,190
Accumulated impairment (note 14(c))
At 1 January 417,356 417,356
Charge for the year — —
At 31 December 417,356 417,356
Net book amount 
At 31 December 418,496 379,834 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
94 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets continued
(b) Other intangible assets
2014
 
Computer 
software
 £’000
Brand 
names
£’000 
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Pipeline
£’000
Other
intangibles
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost     
At 1 January 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195
Acquisitions through business combinations (see note 29) — 2,727 7,850 512 — 11,089
Additions 6,104 — — — — 6,104
Disposals (212) — — — (1,272) (1,484)
At 31 December 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 — 396,904
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783
Charge for the year 4,423 — 9,568 512 32 14,535
On disposals (191) — — — (219) (410)
At 31 December 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 — 159,908
Net book amount
At 31 December 14,433 184,895 37,668 — — 236,996
Computer software includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance lease 6,381 6,360
Accumulated depreciation (532) —
Net book amount 5,849 6,360
2013
 
Computer 
software
 £’000
Brand 
names
£’000 
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Pipeline
£’000
Other
intangibles
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost     
At 1 January 45,354 187,635 88,955 4,647 1,272 327,863
Acquisitions through business combinations 166 28,377 13,453 — — 41,996
Additions 11,498 — — — — 11,498
Disposals (162) — — — — (162)
At 31 December 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 40,584 33,844 54,952 4,647 136 134,163
Charge for the year 3,660 — 8,070 — 51 11,781
On disposals (161) — — — — (161)
At 31 December 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783
Net book amount
At 31 December 12,773 182,168 39,386 — 1,085 235,412
All amortisation charges have been treated as an expense in the income statement. Brand names are treated as having an indefinite life, as a result 
of the fact that the Group will continue to operate these brands into perpetuity and they are therefore subject to annual impairment reviews. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 95
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
14. Intangible assets continued
(b) Other intangible assets continued
The carrying amounts of various brand names owned by the Group have been disclosed below. No amortisation has been disclosed as brands 
are considered to have an indefinite life and as such are tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate potential impairment.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Brand names
Bairstow Eves 17,173 17,173 
John D Wood 14,464 14,464 
Mann & Co 9,418 9,418 
Slater Hogg & Howison 9,709 9,709 
Taylors Estate Agents 10,071 10,071 
Hamptons International 58,774 58,774 
Blundell Property Services 6,494 6,494
Lambert Smith Hampton 28,377 28,377
154,480 154,480
Other brands 30,415 27,688
Net book value 184,895 182,168
(c) Impairment
Due to the severe financial crisis originating in 2008 the following impairment charges have arisen in prior years:
Goodwill
£’000
Brand 
names
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Estate Agency 227,156 33,844 — 261,000
Lettings 16,300 — — 16,300
Financial Services 106,100 — — 106,100
Surveying Services 40,000 — 10,500 50,500
Conveyancing Services 27,800 — — 27,800
417,356 33,844 10,500 461,700
Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are allocated to cash generating units and have been allocated to the lowest level of reporting 
unit. In many cases, the operations of the acquired businesses have been fully integrated with the existing businesses and therefore it is not 
possible to identify separately the economic flows from those businesses. In these cases the goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have 
been tested against the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit reported at the higher level. 
The goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been allocated to cash generating units as follows:
2014
 
Estate
Agency 
£’000 
Lettings 
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Surveying
Services 
£’000 
Conveyancing
Services 
£’000 
London 
& Premier
£’000
Lambert Smith 
Hampton
£’000
Total 
 £’000
Goodwill 5,467 123,921 75,900 132,890 41,782 33,963 4,573 418,496
Indefinite life 
intangible assets 82,053 1,227 — — — 73,238 28,377 184,895
87,520 125,148 75,900 132,890 41,782 107,201 32,950 603,391
2013
 
Estate
Agency 
£’000 
Lettings 
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Surveying
Services 
£’000 
Conveyancing
Services 
£’000 
London 
& Premier
£’000
Lambert Smith 
Hampton
£’000
Total 
 £’000
Goodwill 3,059 96,241 75,900 132,890 40,699 27,072 3,973 379,834
Indefinite life 
intangible assets 80,553 — — — — 73,238 28,377 182,168
83,612 96,241 75,900 132,890 40,699 100,310 32,350 562,002
The recoverable amount of all the above operations has been calculated using the value in use calculation determined from cash flow projections 
from formally approved budgets and forecasts covering a three year period to 2017 followed by modelled forecasts for two years to 2019 
(2013: five years to 2018). The growth rates applied in the approved budgets and forecasts are based on past experience and outlook. 
The discount rate used is based on the Group’s estimated cost of capital. To evaluate the recoverable amount of each division, a terminal 
value has been assumed from the fifth year and includes a growth rate in the cash flows of 0% (2013: 0%) into perpetuity.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
96 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets continued
(c) Impairment continued
Under IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group is required to:
• 
review its intangible assets in the event of a significant change in circumstances that would indicate potential impairment. The reviews 
conducted at the end of 2014 concluded that there had been no further impairment of goodwill (2013: £Nil); and
• 
review and test its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually each year or in the event of a significant change in circumstances. 
The impairment reviews conducted at the end of 2014 concluded that there had been no further impairment of goodwill or indefinite life 
intangible assets (2013: £Nil).
The impairment review for 2014 was conducted in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ by estimating the value in use of each 
of the cash generating units based on the following assumptions which management believes are appropriate given the 2015 budget and 
forecast for future years:
• 
the housing market remains flat during 2015, followed by modest growth of 3% in each of 2016 and 2017. Thereafter no growth has 
been assumed;
• 
the pre-tax discount rate was calculated to be 8% (2013: 8%); 
• 
the benefits of past restructuring changes have been taken into account where there is appropriate certainty over cost reductions; and 
• 
the cash flows from professional indemnity claims were included in the Surveying Services division.
Based on the impairment test performed at 31 December 2014, there was no impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets required.
Sensitivity analysis
The key assumption driving the value in use calculations is the growth rate of the housing transaction volumes. Therefore, as part of the sensitivity 
analysis, management has considered the impact of applying a nil growth rate to the volume of housing transactions in 2015 and beyond and 
no growth in performance. The results indicated that with no growth in housing transaction volumes in 2015 and beyond, the Surveying Services 
division’s goodwill would be impaired by £37 million (2013: £27 million) largely as a result of increased professional indemnity liabilities. Given 
that this division has secured additional contracts during the year and has plans in place for improved growth and efficiencies not wholly 
dependent on housing market transaction volumes, the directors do not consider that this impairment scenario is a likely outcome.
Sensitivity analysis was also undertaken in respect of the discount rate applied within the value in use calculations and significant headroom 
was available for movements in the discount rate applied, such that no potential impairments were identified.
15. Property, plant and equipment 
 
2014 
 
Land and 
buildings 
 £’000
Leasehold
improvements
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
 £’000
Furniture
and
equipment
 £’000
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
 £’000
Total 
£’000 
Cost      
At 1 January 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 — 86,418
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) — — 22 372 — 394
Additions at cost — 4,280 262 13,835 5,529 23,906
Disposals (99) (524) (150) (1,304) — (2,077)
At 31 December 2,093 32,537 578 67,904 5,529 108,641
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 341 16,767 14 37,823 — 54,945
Charge for the year 23 2,594 122 7,085 — 9,824
Disposals (24) (429) (79) (1,119) — (1,651)
At 31 December 340 18,932 57 43,789 — 63,118
Net book amount
At 31 December 1,753 13,605 521 24,115 5,529 45,523
Assets in the course of construction with a value of £5,529,000 relate principally to branch refurbishments in progress for which no depreciation 
has been charged. Depreciation will commence during 2015 when the assets enter operational use. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 97
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
15. Property, plant and equipment continued
 
2013
 
Land and 
buildings 
 £’000
Leasehold
improvements
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
 £’000
Furniture
and
equipment
 £’000
Total 
£’000 
Cost      
At 1 January 4,103 23,825 122 51,142 79,192
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) — 107 84 1,100 1,291
Additions at cost — 5,512 276 9,780 15,568
Transfers — (270) 9 261 —
Disposals (1,911) (393) (47) (7,282) (9,633)
At 31 December 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 86,418
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 930 15,157 16 39,493 55,596
Charge for the year 32 1,767 43 5,564 7,406
Disposals (621) (157) (45) (7,234) (8,057)
At 31 December 341 16,767 14 37,823 54,945
Net book amount
At 31 December 1,851 12,014 430 17,178 31,473
Furniture and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of computer hardware where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance lease 12,062 7,029
Accumulated depreciation (1,829) (843)
Net book amount 10,233 6,186
The Group leases various assets, principally computer hardware and related costs, under finance lease agreements whose terms are between 
three and eight years.
Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred, relating to 2015 and the three subsequent years, 
is as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 3,688 7,139
16. Investment property
£’000
At 1 January 2014 —
Additions 13,017
Revaluation 218
At 31 December 2014 13,235
Investment property acquired, which is property held to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value. Gains arising from 
changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profits for the year to which they relate. On 23 October 2014, the investment 
property has been transferred into a separate, unlisted, residential property fund, Albion PRS Investments Unit Trust. In exchange, the Group 
received units in the property fund. The full independent fund structure, effectively removing any exercise of control to an independent 
trustee, was not in operation at the year end and is due to be in place during the first half of 2015. 
As a result, the assets are being consolidated and reflected directly within investment property. However, this asset holding will be transferred 
to available-for-sale financial assets on completion of the independent fund structure and loss of control of the structure.
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December 2014 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by 
CBRE Limited, independent valuers not connected with the Group. The valuation conforms to International Valuation Standards. The fair value 
was determined based on comparable market transactions on arm’s length terms and has been based on the Market Rent valuation technique. 
The fair value hierarchy of the investment property has been deemed to be Level 2. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
98 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Investments
(a) Principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group
The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertakings, 
most of which are incorporated in Great Britain, and whose operations are conducted in the United Kingdom. Principal subsidiary undertakings 
of the Group at 31 December 2014 are presented below: 
Subsidiary Nature of business
Country of
incorporation
Proportion of 
ordinary shares 
held by 
parent
%
Proportion of 
ordinary shares 
held by 
the Group
%
Countrywide Holdings, Ltd Holding company Cayman Islands 100 100
Countrywide Group plc Holding company UK — 100
Balanus Limited Holding company UK — 100
Estate Agency and Lettings
Countrywide Estate Agents Estate Agency and Lettings UK — 100
London & Premier
Hamptons Group Limited Holding company UK — 100
Hamptons Estates Limited Estate Agency and Lettings Hong Kong — 100
Surveying Services
Countrywide Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK — 100
Countrywide Social Housing Limited Surveying Services UK — 58
United Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK — 100
Conveyancing Services
Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited Conveyancing Services UK — 100
TitleAbsolute Limited Conveyancing Services UK — 100
Financial Services
Countrywide Principal Services Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Intelligence Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Next Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Capital Private Finance Limited Financial Services UK — 51
Life and Easy Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Property consultancy UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (N Ireland) Property consultancy UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited Property consultancy UK — 100
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list 
of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2014 will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return. 
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests is presented below:
Countrywide Social Housing Limited Capital Private Finance Limited
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Current assets 327 871 470 316
Non-current assets 3 3 5 5
Current liabilities (67) (441) (209) (160)
Non-current liabilities — — (103) (54)
Net assets 263 433 163 107
Revenues 877 1,069 1,889 1,453
Net profit 139 306 490 299
Dividends paid 309 321 435 260 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 99
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
17. Investments continued
(b) Interests in joint venture
TM Group (UK) Limited 
At 31 December 2014 the Group had a 33% (2013: 33%) interest in the ordinary share capital TM Group (UK) Limited (TMG) a UK company. 
TMG has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and is a private company with no quoted market price available for its shares. 
TMG is one of the largest companies in the provision of searches to the property companies sector (measured by completed searches). 
It delivers a range of property searches and data to land and property professionals in the UK, arranges for property searches directly 
with specific suppliers on behalf of its own customers, and has also started to supply IT applications and products to UK mortgage lenders.
There are no outstanding commitments or contingent liabilities relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture. 
During the year, TMG was a joint venture company.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
At 1 January: 
– net assets excluding goodwill 1,433 1,196
– goodwill 1,480 1,480
2,913 2,676
Dividend received (507) (778)
Share of profits retained 813 1,015
At 31 December:
– net assets excluding goodwill 1,739 1,433
– goodwill 1,480 1,480
3,219 2,913
The summarised financial information of TM Group (UK) Limited, which is accounted for using the equity method, is presented below:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash and equivalents 5,715 5,239
Other current assets (excluding cash) 2,474 2,074
Total current assets 8,189 7,313
Non-current assets 712 387
Current liabilities (3,684) (3,400)
Net assets 5,217 4,300
Net assets adjusted for the percentage of ownership 1,739 1,433
Income 59,283 51,942
Depreciation (166) (157)
Expenses (excluding depreciation) (56,726) (48,780)
Interest income 48 40
Post-tax results 2,439 3,045
Share of post-tax results 813 1,015
There is no other comprehensive income arising in the joint venture in either year.
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
At 1 January 42,877 14,370
Zoopla shares purchased for cash 2,090 1,054
Zoopla shares acquired on crystallisation of warrants 2,835 —
Disposal of Zoopla shares (17,786) —
Acquisition of shares in unlisted equity and debentures 96 —
Movement in fair value 3,200 27,475
Amortisation (22) (22)
At 31 December 33,290 42,877 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
100 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Investments continued
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets continued
Available for sale financial assets, which are all Sterling denominated, include the following:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Listed equity securities: Zoopla plc 33,165 —
Unlisted securities Zoopla Property Group Limited — 42,824
Unlisted equity 60 20
Wimbledon debentures (acquired and amortised over the life of the debenture) 65 31
At 31 December 33,290 42,877
In May 2012, Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group and as a result crystallised some warrants into shares which were due under 
an arm’s length commercial agreement. The fair value of these shares was assessed based on the most recent price paid for shares. As a result 
of acquiring the additional shares for a nominal price and the fact that these shares were issued to the Group as part of the commercial agreement 
signed in 2010 to list the Group’s properties for sale and rent on the Zoopla website, the excess in the assessed fair value, of these shares 
on initial recognition, over the nominal cost has been treated as deferred income and is being released over the period of the contract ending 
in 2015. The amount released to the income statement is disclosed in note 10 and the amount held on the balance sheet as deferred income 
is identified in note 22.
In June 2014, Zoopla plc listed on the London Stock Exchange and as a result crystallised some additional warrants into shares which were 
due under a further commercial agreement signed in 2014 to extend the listing period on the Zoopla website. The excess in the assessed 
fair value of these shares on initial recognition, over the nominal cost, has been treated as deferred income (£2,835,000) and will be released 
over the three year period of the contract from 2016 to 2018 (see note 22).
18. Trade and other receivables 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables not past due 42,512 44,450
Trade receivables past due but not impaired 22,818 19,002
Trade receivables past due but impaired 4,165 3,848
Trade receivables 69,495 67,300
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (4,165) (3,848)
Trade receivables – net 65,330 63,452
Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,251 1,346
Other receivables 14,243 8,670
Prepayments and accrued income 17,820 18,386
98,644 91,854
Trade and other receivables are all current and any fair value difference is not material. Trade receivables are considered past due once they 
have passed their contracted due date. Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due beyond 90 days for individual customers 
or 180 days for commercial contracts. Further information in respect of financial assets, including credit risk, is provided in note 34.
As at 31 December 2014, trade receivables of £22,818,000 (2013: £19,002,000) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number 
of customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
3–6 months 11,974 10,148
Over 6 months 10,884 8,854
22,818 19,002
Trade and other receivables are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of £252,000 (2013: £698,000) which are receivable 
in Hong Kong Dollars.
A summary of the movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
As at 1 January 3,848 4,993
Additional provisions (note 7) 1,181 1,099
Amounts used (864) (2,244)
As at 31 December 4,165 3,848
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does 
not hold any collateral as security. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 101
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
19. Cash and cash equivalents 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 16,578 20,675
Short term bank deposits 12,005 15,650
28,583 36,325
Of the short term bank deposits, a number were interest bearing within the following range: 2014: 0.5%–0.55% (2013: 0.5%–1.5%).
The following amounts were held in foreign currencies: 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Hong Kong Dollars 134 51
Barbadian Dollars 121 121
255 172
20. Trade and other payables 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Trade payables 13,875 13,625
Other financial liabilities 2,560 4,955
Deferred consideration 5,103 2,174
21,538 20,754
Other tax and social security payable 26,988 28,755
Accruals and other payables 65,130 63,912
113,656 113,421
Trade and other payables due within one year 109,312 106,286
Trade and other payables due after one year 4,344 7,135
113,656 113,421
The principal component of trade and other payables due after one year are: other financial liabilities in relation to put options £2,560,000 
(2013: £4,955,000) and accrued National Insurance as share-based payment charges of £613,000 (2013: £1,710,000).
At 31 December 2014, other financial liabilities include put options of £2,560,000 (2013: £4,955,000) to acquire the non-controlling 
interests in entities acquired in 2011 (see note 17(a)). These financial liabilities are held at the present value of the expected redemption 
amount, which is based on management’s expectation of performance, consistent with operating plans approved.
These options are exercisable as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Exercisable 2014 — 780
Exercisable 2016 2,560 4,175
2,560 4,955
The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities. Financial liabilities are denominated in Pounds 
Sterling with the exception of £135,000 (2013: £Nil). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
102 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
21. Borrowings
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Non-current 
Bank borrowings 80,000 70,000 
Other loans 1,000 1,000
Capitalised banking fees (1,613) (1,960)
Finance lease liabilities 7,563 8,217
86,950 77,257
Current
Bank borrowings 40,000 5,000
Finance lease liabilities 4,760 2,487
44,760 7,487
Total borrowings 131,710 84,744
Analysis of net debt 
 
At
1 January 
2014
£’000
Cash flow
£’000
Non-cash
changes
£’000
At
31 December 
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 36,325 (7,742) — 28,583
Capitalised banking fees 1,960 813 (1,160) 1,613
Loan notes (1,000) — — (1,000)
Term loan due after one year (70,000) (25,000) 15,000 (80,000)
Term loan due within one year (5,000) — (15,000) (20,000)
Revolving credit facility due within one year — (20,000) — (20,000)
Finance leases due after one year (8,217) — 654 (7,563)
Finance leases due within one year (2,487) 4,521 (6,794) (4,760)
Total (48,419) (47,408) (7,300) (103,127)
Borrowings and other loans
On 20 February 2014 the Company amended and extended the existing facilities, drawing down an additional £25 million term loan, and 
entered into a £150 million (2013: £100 million) Term and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement which terminates in March 2017, for which 
there are no assets pledged as security. The facilities are split between £100 million Term Loan and £50 million Revolving Credit Facility (RCF). 
The term loan is repaid by instalments: £20 million on 20 March 2015, £25 million on 20 March 2016, £55 million balance due on termination 
on 20 March 2017. Interest is payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%. The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and 
the margin rate is reviewed annually. The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge and leverage covenants, and was 
drawn down by £20 million at the year end.
The unsecured loan notes are non-interest bearing, repayable in 2029, and arose on the purchase of Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited.
Finance lease liabilities 
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
No later than one year 5,087 2,811
Later than one year and no later than five years 8,444 8,334
Later than five years — 592
13,531 11,737
Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities (1,208) (1,033)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 12,323 10,704
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
No later than one year 4,760 2,487
Later than one year and no later than five years 7,563 7,647
Later than five years — 570
12,323 10,704 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 103
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
22. Deferred income 
Deferred income will unwind as follows: 
  2014 2013 
Cash 
£’000
Non-cash
£’000
Total
£’000
Total
£’000
Within one year 3,174 2,534 5,708 6,872
After one year:
Between one and two years 3,076 945 4,021 5,189
Between two and three years 1,050 945 1,995 1,958
Between three and four years — 945 945 1,146
Between four and five years — — — 4
4,126 2,835 6,961 8,297
7,300 5,369 12,669 15,169
The Group recognises deferred income as a result of cash received in advance in relation to certain sales distribution contracts and lease 
incentives relating to the Group’s operating leases. The cash received is amortised over the life of the contracts to which they relate.
Non-cash proportion of deferred income relates to unamortised income portion created on acquisition of shares in Zoopla. This deferred 
income is being amortised over the period of the commercial agreements which gave rise to these assets (refer to notes 10 and 17). 
23. Provisions 
2014
 
Onerous
contracts 
£’000 
Property
repairs 
£’000 
Clawback 
£’000 
Claims and
litigation 
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
At 1 January 1,943 4,276 2,857 32,909 3,130 45,115
Acquired in acquisition (note 29) — 202 — 75 — 277
Utilised in the year (863) (910) (5,685) (14,425) (863) (22,746)
Charged/(credited) to income statement 18 302 6,252 18,227 — 24,799
Unwind of discount rate 47 — — — — 47
At 31 December 1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492
Due within one year or less 423 2,021 2,444 16,889 258 22,035
Due after more than one year 722 1,849 980 19,897 2,009 25,457
1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492
2013
 
Onerous
contracts 
£’000 
Property
repairs 
£’000 
Clawback 
£’000 
Claims and
litigation 
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
At 1 January 3,899 4,094 3,280 40,544 6,771 58,588
Acquired in acquisition 55 1,448 — 5,537 — 7,040
Utilised in the year (1,327) (1,455) (3,815) (18,129) (2,272) (26,998)
(Credited)/charged to income statement (721) 189 3,392 4,957 (1,369) 6,448
Unwind of discount rate 37 — — — — 37
At 31 December 1,943 4,276 2,857 32,909 3,130 45,115
Due within one year or less 742 1,930 2,040 19,074 992 24,778
Due after more than one year 1,201 2,346 817 13,835 2,138 20,337
1,943 4,276 2,857 32,909 3,130 45,115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
104 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Provisions continued
The provision for onerous contracts relates to property leases and represents the estimated unavoidable costs of leasehold properties which 
have become surplus to the Group’s requirements following the closure or relocation of operations. The provision is based on the present 
value of rentals and other unavoidable costs payable during the remaining lease period after taking into account rents receivable or expected 
to be receivable from sub-lessees, typically over a five year period. Provisions are released when properties are assigned or sub-let. 
The provision for property repairs represents estimates of the cost to repair existing dilapidations under leasehold covenants, in accordance 
with IAS 37 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’ . The average unexpired lease length of properties against which a provision 
has been made is two years.
Clawback represents the provision required to meet the estimated cost of repaying indemnity commission income received on life assurance 
policies that may lapse in the two years following issue. 
Claims and litigation provisions comprise the amounts set aside to meet claims by customers below the level of any PI insurance excess, 
the estimation of IBNR claims and any amounts that might be payable as a result of any legal disputes. The provisions represent the directors’ 
best estimate of the Groups’ liability having taken professional advice. 
In addition to the claims provisions recognised, the Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims (IBNR) for mortgage valuation 
reports and home buyer reports provided by the Surveying Services division. The basis for calculating this provision is outlined further in 
note 3, Critical accounting judgements and estimates. While there are many factors which determine the settlement date of any claims, 
the expected cash flows are estimated based on the average length of time it takes to settle claims in the past, which is around two years.
Other provisions mainly comprise items relating to operational reorganisation including some business closure costs and some IT transition 
expenses which are expected to be utilised over the next four years. 
24. Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20% (2013: 21%).
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Deferred tax liability at 1 January (31,507) (27,218)
Credited to income statement 4,828 1,795
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) (2,089) (7,182)
Disposed on disposal of subsidiary (13) —
Credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income 507 (137)
(Charged)/credited to equity (369) 1,235
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (28,643) (31,507)
Deferred tax asset 16,215 15,418
Deferred tax liability (44,858) (46,925)
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (28,643) (31,507)
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 1,694 3,015
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 14,521 12,403
16,215 15,418
Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year (1,600) (3,792)
Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year (43,258) (43,133)
(44,858) (46,925)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the 
extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 105
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
24. Deferred tax continued
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) 
during the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and 
there is an intention to settle the balances net. 
  2014 
 
Asset/
(liability)
 £’000
(Charged)/
credited
to income
£’000
Credited to other
comprehensive
income/(charged 
to equity)
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
Capital allowances 7,535 (1,395) —
Employee pension liabilities 1,043 (396) 507
Share-based payments 5,308 2,533 (369)
Trading losses 705 (787) —
Intangible assets (43,970) 4,123 —
Gain deferred by roll-over relief (887) — —
Other temporary and deductible differences 1,623 750 —
 (28,643) 4,828 138
  2013
 
Asset/
(liability)
 £’000
(Charged)/
credited
to income
£’000 
(Charged to other
comprehensive
income)/credited 
to equity
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
Capital allowances 8,976 (1,312) —
Employee pension liabilities 932 (452) (137)
Share-based payments 3,144 1,909 1,235
Trading losses 1,492 (2,460) —
Intangible assets (46,030) 5,380 —
Gain deferred by roll-over relief (886) — —
Other temporary and deductible differences 865 (1,270) —
 (31,507) 1,795 1,098
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused capital losses of £24,375,000 (2013: £25,548,000) and £629,000 
(2013: £20,323,000) in respect of non-trading loan relationships, and £248,000 in respect of trading losses (2013: £449,000). There is no 
expiry date attributable to these unrecognised deferred tax assets, but no assets have been recognised as there are currently no expectations 
of offsetting income streams arising, with the exception of the value noted below where an identical liability would also be recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the tax impact of the unrealised capital gain of £5,966,000 (2013: £8,539,000) 
arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets because the unrecognised losses above would offset any future gain.
25. Post-employment benefits 
The Group offers membership of the Countrywide plc Pension Scheme to eligible employees, the only pension arrangements operated 
by the Group. The Scheme has two sections of membership: defined contribution and defined benefit. 
Defined contribution pension arrangements
The pensions cost for the defined contribution scheme in the year was £5,637,000 (2013: £4,804,000).
Defined benefit pension arrangements
In the past the Group offered a defined benefit pension arrangement; however, this was closed to new entrants in 1988 and subsequently closed 
to further service accrual at the end of 2003. Members of the defined benefit arrangements earned benefits linked to final pensionable salary 
and service at the date of retirement or date of leaving the scheme if earlier. The average duration of the defined benefit pension scheme is 
16 years.
The defined benefit pension arrangements provide pension benefits to its members based on earnings at the date of leaving the scheme. 
Pensions in payment are updated in line with the minimum of 4% or retail price index (RPI) inflation. The Scheme is established and administered 
in the UK and ultimately overseen by the Pensions Ombudsman. The regulatory framework requires the Group to fund the scheme every 
three years and for the Group to agree the valuation with the trustees. As such, the funding arrangements will be reviewed at the next 
valuation (due at 5 April 2015). The Group is responsible for ensuring that pension arrangements are adequately funded and the directors 
have agreed a funding programme to bring down the deficit in the defined benefit scheme over the next four years. During the year, the 
Group paid £1.9 million (2013: £1.9 million) to the defined benefit scheme. During the year which commenced on 1 January 2015, the 
employer is expected to pay contributions of £1.9 million (2014: £1.9 million). Further contributions of £1.9 million will be made in each 
of the next four years. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
106 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
25. Post-employment benefits continued
Defined benefit pension arrangements continued
The Group’s obligations under the pension arrangements are subject to inherent estimation uncertainty. While the trustees and actuary assess 
the value of the scheme assets, and the extent of the liabilities, they are obliged to make a number of assumptions, sensitivities to which are 
detailed later on. Furthermore, the scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed to risks in the equities and bond 
markets and similarly the liabilities can fluctuate according to gilt or corporate bond rate.
The Scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension 
liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the Scheme’s beneficiaries and they take 
independent advice when deliberating matters relating to the Scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme under defined pension arrangements are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be 
paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method, which is an accrued benefits valuation method. 
The defined benefit liabilities set out in this note have been calculated by an independent actuary based on the results of the most recent 
full actuarial valuation at 5 April 2012, updated to 31 December 2014. The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are 
shown below.
The Group immediately recognises the actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income as shown in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Present value of funded obligations (50,740) (43,581)
Fair value of plan assets 45,524 39,143
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (5,216) (4,438)
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
 
Present value of
obligation
£’000
Fair value of
plan assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 (43,581) 39,143 (4,438)
Expected return on scheme assets — 1,771 1,771
Actuarial gain — 4,252 4,252
Employer contributions — 1,900 1,900
Service cost (105) — (105)
Interest cost (1,929) — (1,929)
Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions (6,667) — (6,667)
Benefits paid 1,437 (1,437) —
Expenses 105 (105) —
At 31 December 2014 (50,740) 45,524 (5,216)
 
Present value of
obligation
£’000
Fair value of
plan assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2013 (44,518) 37,906 (6,612)
Expected return on scheme assets — 1,669 1,669
Actuarial loss — (474) (474)
Employer contributions — 1,900 1,900
Service cost (124) — (124)
Interest cost (1,924) — (1,924)
Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions 28 — 28
Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,015 — 1,015
Changes due to experience adjustments 84 — 84
Benefits paid 1,734 (1,734) —
Expenses 124 (124) —
At 31 December 2013 (43,581) 39,143 (4,438) ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 107
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
25. Post-employment benefits continued
Defined benefit pension arrangements continued
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are:
 
2014
%
2013
%
Cash 1 1
UK equities 5 6
Overseas equities 5 6
UK fixed interest gilts 12 11
Corporate bonds 47 45
Other – GARS 10 10
Other – insured pensioners 20 21
100 100
Insured pensioners and cash constitute unquoted investments. All other investments are managed funds either quoted directly or comprising 
quoted investments. The Group does not have any of its own transferable instruments, property occupied or other assets used held as plan assets.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Current service cost 105 124
Net interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (within finance costs) 158 255
Total charge to the income statement 263 379
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are: 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Actuarial gain/(loss) on scheme assets 4,252 (474)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities:
Actuarial gain from changes in financial assumptions (6,667) 28
Actuarial gains from changes in demographic assumptions — 1,015
Changes due to experience adjustments — 84
Other comprehensive income (2,415) 653
Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 507 (137)
 (1,908) 516
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (after tax) (7,127) (5,219)
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 
 2014 2013
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions
– On benefits earned prior to 1 December 1999 4.15% 4.20%
– On benefits earned after 1 December 1999 2.80% 3.15%
Discount rate 3.50% 4.50%
RPI inflation 2.85% 3.25%
CPI inflation 1.85% 2.45%
Expected net return on plan assets 3.50% 4.50%
Cash commutation 20% 20%
Life expectancy at age 65 (years)
– Male pensioner member 22.8 22.8
– Female pensioner member 25.0 25.0
– Male pensioner non-member (age 45 now) 24.6 24.5
– Female pensioner non-member (age 45 now) 26.9 26.9
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio 
is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based 
on the target assets allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
108 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
25. Post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used. The defined benefit obligation position revealed by IAS 19 calculations 
must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of the assets (with a significant exposure to equities) is being compared 
with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields. However, the Group has taken steps to mitigate these risks of asset volatility, 
including insuring some of the pensioners (as illustrated by the asset portfolio).
The sensitivity analyses (below) are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely 
to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity 
analysis did not change compared to those disclosed in the Listing Prospectus.
 
Defined
benefit obligation
£’000
Change from
disclosed deficit
£’000
Defined benefit obligation 50,740 —
Discount rate less 0.25% 52,599 1,859
RPI and linked assumptions plus 0.25% 51,261 521
Members living one year longer than assumed 52,984 2,244
Defined benefit obligation trends: 
 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Scheme assets 45,524 39,143 37,906 38,071 33,888
Scheme liabilities (50,740) (43,581) (44,518) (44,534) (39,394)
Scheme deficit (5,216) (4,438) (6,612) (6,463) (5,506)
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme liabilities — 84 1,156 (24) 499
Gain from changes in the demographic assumptions for value 
of scheme liabilities — 1,015 644 — —
(Loss)/gain from changes in the assumptions for value 
of scheme liabilities (6,667) 28 (1,150) (4,237) (1,021)
Experience gain/(loss) adjustments on assets 4,252 (474) (513) 1,660 186
Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits at 31 December 2014:
Less than 
one year
£’000
Between one
and two years
£’000
Between two
and five years
£’000
Over 
five years
£’000
Total
£’000
Undiscounted pension benefits 1,863 1,867 6,246 83,567 93,543
26. Share capital 
Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each
Number £’000
At 1 January and 31 December 2014 219,444,961 2,194
The Company acquired 2,917,000 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout October and November 2014. 
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £13,262,000. The shares are held as ‘treasury shares’. The Company has the right to reissue 
these shares at a later date. All shares issued by the Company were fully paid. 
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled or reissued. At the year end, 225,151 shares (2013: 39,375 shares), costing £1,254,000 (2013: £226,000), were held in relation 
to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
27. Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes for executive directors and other employees. The Group has no legal or 
constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash. The total cost recognised in the income statement was £12,860,000 
in the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £8,054,000), comprising £11,367,000 of equity-settled share-based payments, and £1,493,000 
in respect of cash-settled share-based payments for the dividend accrual associated with those options. Employer’s NI is being accrued, where 
applicable, at the rate of 13.8% which management expects to be the prevailing rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the 
share price at the reporting date. The total NI charge for the year was £1,607,000 (2013: £1,710,000). ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 109
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
27. Share-based payments continued
The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding:
Outstanding at 31 December
 
2014 2013 
Charge
£’000
Number 
of options
(thousands) 
Charge
£’000
Number 
of options
(thousands) 
Accelerated management incentive plan* — — 694 —
IPO plan 10,560 7,185 6,938 7,185
Long term incentive plan 2,097 1,550 407 758
Share incentive plan 203 225 15 26
12,860 8,960 8,054 7,969
* Disclosed as an exceptional item – see note 10.
A summary of the main features of each scheme is given below. The schemes have been split into two categories: executive schemes 
and other schemes. For further details on executive schemes, see the remuneration report on pages 62 to 64.
Executive schemes
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
The L TIP is open to executive directors and designated senior management, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. 
Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria and vest over a three year period.
IPO plan
At the time of the flotation in March 2013, the Company nil cost share options to executive directors and designated senior management 
designed for the grant of one-off awards in recognition of the loss of rights under a management incentive package that terminated prior 
to, and as a result of, the flotation (‘the MIP’).
IPO options granted to the executive directors become exercisable as follows: 50% on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO 
option and 50% on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option. IPO options granted to other participants will normally become 
exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option. The number of options that will vest is subject to the performance 
criterion based on EBITDA for 2014 as well as continued service.
Management incentive plan (MIP)
Certain members of the management team subscribed to the MIP, under whose terms senior management purchased shares in Countrywide 
Holdings, Ltd. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of shares granted to employees were treated as share-based payments. 
Due to the share exchange on 18 March 2013 and subsequent reorganisation which crystallised the number of C shares exchanged, the 
vesting period was accelerated.
Other schemes
Share incentive plan (SIP)
An HMRC approved share incentive plan was introduced in October 2013. Under the SIP, eligible employees are invited to make regular monthly 
contributions into a scheme operated by Capita. Ordinary shares in the Company are purchased at the current market price and an award of 
one matching share is made for every two shares acquired by an employee, subject to a vesting period of three years from the date of each 
monthly grant.
The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group is shown below:
2014 2013
Executive schemes* Executive scheme*
LTIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
IPO 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
SIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
LTIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
IPO 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
MIP 
Number 
of shares 
(thousands)
SIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
At 1 January 758 7,185 26 — — 13,046 —
Granted 792 — 199 758 7,185 — 26 
Exchanged — — — — — (12,961) —
Buy back — — — — — (85) —
At 31 December 1,550 7,185 225 758 7,185 — 26
* Executive schemes are granted at £Nil consideration and SIP matching shares are granted at £Nil consideration.
None of the schemes were exercisable at the year end. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
110 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
27. Share-based payments continued
Other schemes continued
Share incentive plan (SIP) continued
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date (and all have £ Nil exercise prices):
Exercise price
Share options (thousands)
Grant – vest Expiry date pence 2014 2013
IPO plan
18 March 2013 – 18 March 2015/2016 18 March 2021 — 7,185 7,185
LTIP grants
6 September 2013 – 6 September 2016 6 September 2023 — 758 758
21 March 2014 – 21 March 2017 21 March 2024 — 546 —
8 September 2014 – 8 September 2017 8 September 2024 — 246 —
SIP plan
Monthly rolling grants and vesting three years later — 225 26
8,960 7,969
The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted during the year under the schemes:
LTIP (TSR 
condition)
LTIP 
(EPS condition)
IPO 
plan
Share 
incentive plan
Option pricing model Monte Carlo Black Scholes Binomial Lattice Fair value at grant date
Weighted average share price at grant date 507.5p–664p 507.5p–664p 350p 531p
Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p
Weighted average contractual life 3 years 3 years 2.2 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield n/a 1.0–2.56% 1.5% n/a
Risk-free interest rate 0.5–0.9% 0.5–0.9% 1.8% n/a
Volatility Statistical analysis of three 
years’ share price data n/a n/a n/a
28. Other reserves
The following table provides a breakdown of ‘other reserves’ shown on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Capital
reorganisation
reserve
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Foreign
exchange 
reserve
£’000
Available-for-sale
financial assets 
reserve
£’000
Treasury 
share
reserve
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2013 — 45,540 (29) 953 — 46,464
Currency translation differences — — (27) — — (27)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — 27,475 — 27,475
Repurchase of shares — 1 — — — 1
Capital reorganisation 92,820 (45,541) — — — 47,279
Treasury shares — — — — (226) (226)
Balance at 1 January 2014 92,820 — (56) 28,428 (226) 120,966
Currency translation differences — — (117) — — (117)
Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — (11,076) — (11,076)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — 3,200 — 3,200
Treasury shares — — — — (14,290) (14,290)
Balance at 31 December 2014 92,820 — (173) 20,552 (14,516) 98,683
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders’ equity: 
Share premium 
The amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value less any costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares.
Capital reorganisation reserve
The capital reorganisation reserve represents the difference between the share capital of the Company and the share capital, share premium 
and capital redemption reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at the point of the exchange of equity interests on 19 March 2013.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve represents the cancellation of the original share capital and share premium of the Company and the par value 
of any shares repurchased. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 111
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
28. Other reserves continued
Treasury share reserve
The treasury share reserve represents the consideration paid when the Company acquires its own shares and holds them as treasury shares 
as well as when the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital, until the shares are reissued. See note 26 for full 
details of treasury shares held.
Foreign exchange reserve
The foreign exchange reserve represents the difference arising from the changes to foreign exchange rates upon assets and liabilities 
of overseas subsidiaries.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve
The available-for-sale financial assets reserve represents the unrealised gain arising on the revaluation of these assets. 
Retained earnings
Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Group income statement and pension scheme gains and losses, movement in fair value 
of available-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
29. Acquisitions during the year
 
APW
£’000
Tucker Gardner
£’000
Preston Bennett
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
Intangible assets 893 4,153 1,017 5,026 11,089
Property, plant and equipment 66 79 111 138 394
Trade and other receivables 435 238 1,442 1,202 3,317
Cash at bank 1,309 370 655 469 2,803
Trade and other payables (260) (884) (584) (2,307) (4,035)
Corporation tax (92) (126) (294) (493) (1,005)
Deferred tax (179) (834) (223) (853) (2,089)
Provisions — — — (277) (277)
Net assets 2,172 2,996 2,124 2,905 10,197
Goodwill 5,994 4,112 4,018 24,602 38,726
Consideration 8,166 7,108 6,142 27,507 48,923
Settled by:
Initial consideration 7,691 6,958 4,630 24,541 43,820
Deferred consideration 475 150 1,512 2,966 5,103
8,166 7,108 6,142 27,507 48,923
Cash paid 7,691 6,958 4,630 24,541 43,820
Cash at bank (1,309) (370) (655) (469) (2,803)
Net cash flow arising from acquisitions 6,382 6,588 3,975 24,072 41,017
Revenue post-acquisition 1,855 5,107 4,129 12,403 23,494
Profit post-acquisition 880 2,018 1,833 3,289 8,020
Proforma revenue to 31 December 2014 2,452 5,107 4,273 19,160 30,992
Proforma profit to 31 December 2014 1,108 2,018 1,823 4,539 9,488
During 2014 the Lettings division acquired 28 lettings operations, including Tucker Gardner and APW, as part of the targeted acquisition strategy 
to increase the Group’s footprint in certain under-represented geographical areas. The total consideration in respect of these acquisitions was 
£37.6 million and the most significant Lettings acquisitions were as follows: on 1 January 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the equity share 
capital of Tucker Gardner Residential Limited and on 7 April 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of APW Holdings Limited 
and five subsidiary companies for the consideration noted in the table above. The London & Premier division acquired six businesses as part 
of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand in certain under represented geographical areas for a total consideration of £9.4 million, the most 
significant of which was on 22 January 2014, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Preston Bennett Holdings Limited 
for the consideration noted above. Lambert Smith Hampton and Conveyancing Services each acquired a business for £0.8 million and 
£1.0 million consideration respectively.
The acquired trade and other receivables for all acquired businesses are all current and their fair value is not materially different. Furthermore 
there are no contractual cash flows that are not expected to be collected. The goodwill recognised by the Group upon acquisition has no 
impact on tax deductions.
The costs of these acquisitions amounted to £803,000 (2013: £890,000) and have been written off to profit and loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Acquisitions during the prior year 
During the prior year the Group acquired Lambert Smith Hampton and 28 small lettings businesses. The total consideration paid was 
£50.4 million and goodwill recognised was £23.3 million. The proforma revenue and EBITDA generated by these businesses in 2013 
was £78.9 million and £0.2 million respectively.
31. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments 
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 
2014 2013
 
Property 
£’000 
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment 
£’000 
Property 
£’000 
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment 
£’000 
Within one year 21,444 13,621 19,740 16,783
Later than one year and less than five years 46,654 16,706 42,004 14,530
After five years 24,001 — 18,964 —
92,099 30,327 80,708 31,313
At 31 December 2014, the Group had sub-leased a number of surplus premises and was entitled to receive rents under non-cancellable 
leases as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Sub-leases
Within one year 823 905
Later than one year and less than five years 842 1,383
After five years 142 1,149
 1,807 3,437
32. Client monies
At 31 December 2014, client monies held by subsidiaries in approved bank and building society accounts amounted to £315,389,921 
(2013: £248,995,000). Neither the cash asset nor any corresponding obligation has been recognised by the Group. These client monies 
are subject to the following regulations: £25,277,154 Council for Licenced Conveyancers; £1,905,822 Financial Conduct Authority; and 
£288,206,945 Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
33. Financial instruments
Financial instruments by category
31 December 2014
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Available for
sale
£’000
Total
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets — 33,290 33,290
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 80,824 — 80,824
Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 — 28,583
 109,407 33,290 142,697
31 December 2014
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at
fair value through
profit and loss
£’000
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) — 119,387 119,387
Finance lease liabilities — 12,323 12,323
Put options 2,560 — 2,560
Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities — 83,127 83,127
 2,560 214,837 217,397 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 113
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
33. Financial instruments continued
Financial instruments by category continued
31 December 2013
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Available
for sale
£’000
Total
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets — 42,877 42,877
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 73,468 — 73,468
Cash and cash equivalents 36,325 — 36,325
 109,793 42,877 152,670
31 December 2013
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at
fair value through
profit and loss
£’000
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) — 74,040 74,040
Finance lease liabilities — 10,704 10,704
Put options 4,955 — 4,955
Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities — 77,274 77,274
 4,955 162,018 166,973
34. Financial risk management 
Financial risk factors
The Group is exposed through its operations to one or more of the following financial risks: 
• 
cash flow and fair value interest rate risk;
• 
liquidity risk;
• 
counterparty credit risk; and
• 
price risk.
The policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the chief finance officer. Certain risks are managed 
centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre. The policy for each of the above risks is described 
in more detail below. 
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest 
rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The interest profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Floating rate assets 16,578 13,822
Fixed rate assets 12,005 22,503
Interest-free assets 114,114 116,345
Total financial assets 142,697 152,670
Floating rate liabilities 118,387 73,040
Fixed rate liabilities 12,323 10,704
Interest-free liabilities 86,687 83,229
Total financial liabilities 217,397 166,973
The average rate at which the fixed rate liabilities were fixed in 2014 was 3.59% (2013: 3.59%) and the average period for which the 
liabilities were fixed was 365 days (2013: 180 days). 
There is no material difference between the book and the fair values of the financial assets and liabilities. 
The interest payable on the Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes was fixed; therefore, the Group was not exposed to the risk of cash flow risk 
arising from changes in the interest rates. The interest payable on the term loan facility is at variable rates. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Financial risk management continued
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk continued
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s liabilities secured on a floating basis which 
are managed on a central basis. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the portion 
of liabilities exposed to the floating rates. 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Increase in basis points 100 100
Effect on profit before tax (£’000) (1,200) (750)
Decrease in basis points 50 (50)
Effect on profit before tax (£’000) 600 375
Liquidity risk 
The liquidity risk of each Group entity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function who monitor rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity 
requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities. 
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations and acquisition strategy. Acquisitions are carefully 
selected with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods as applied as part of the investment appraisal 
process. The Group is also cash generative as demonstrated by the cash from operations. The requirement to pay creditors is managed 
through future cash generation and, if required, revolving credit facility. 
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by daily cash reporting. This reporting considers maturity of both its financial investments 
and financial assets (e.g. trade receivables and other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s objective is to 
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility for potential acquisitions. 
All surplus cash held by the operating entities is transferred to Group treasury and managed centrally to maximise the returns on deposits 
through economies of scale. The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Group’s forecast cash requirements. 
The Group maintains an overdraft facility with a major banking corporation to manage any unexpected short term cash shortfalls. 
The Group has a £100 million term loan facility which incurs interest payments quarterly. The Group also has a £50 million revolving credit 
facility which provides additional liquidity resource. 
The Group’s discounted financial liabilities at the year end were as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Trade payables 13,875 13,625
Other financial liabilities 2,560 4,955
Deferred consideration 5,103 2,174
Borrowings 119,387 74,040
Finance lease liabilities 12,323 10,704
Accruals and other payables 64,149 61,475
217,397 166,973
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet 
date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
In less than one year 125,678 85,579
In more than one year but not more than two years 33,073 12,048
In more than two years but less than three years 57,303 23,202
In more than three years but not more than four years 1,991 46,123
In more than four years but less than five years 980 1,333
Over five years 1,000 1,592
 220,025 169,877 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 115
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
34. Financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk 
The Group’s financial assets at the year end were as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 36,325
Trade receivables 65,330 63,452
Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,251 1,346
Other receivables 14,243 8,670
109,407 109,793
As stated in note 18 trade and other receivables are current assets and expected to convert to cash over the next twelve months.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The Group is exposed to credit risk from credit sales. It is Group policy, 
implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of major new customers before entering contracts. The majority of customers use the Group’s 
services as part of a housing transaction and consequently the sales are paid from the proceeds of the house sale. The majority of the commercial 
customers and the major lenders, customers of the surveying and asset management businesses, are large financial institutions and as such 
the credit risk is not expected to be significant. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying 
value as at the balance sheet date. The following table presents a breakdown of the gross trade receivables between the three main types 
of customer:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Individual customers 26,888 41,076
Major lenders 9,985 9,899
Other commercial customers 32,622 16,325
69,495 67,300
The Group treasury function manages the Group’s cash balances and seeks to achieve reasonable rates of interest, but preservation of the capital 
is the overriding priority. A list of accepted deposit institutions is maintained and their credit ratings are kept under review. The following table 
presents a breakdown of cash at bank and short term deposits (the rest of ‘cash and cash equivalents’ is cash in hand):
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
A1 6,249 —
A2 6,225 9,922
A3 837 26,375
BA1 15,272 28
28,583 36,325
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available 
for sale amounting to £33,290,000 (2013: £42,877,000). If the price used in the 2014 year-end valuation had decreased by 5% the carrying 
value of the investment and the unrealised gain recorded within the statement of comprehensive income would have reduced by £1.7 million.
Capital management
The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of debt (subject to certain restrictions under the term loan 
facility), adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
The Group defines capital as the total of equity shareholders’ funds and long term borrowings net of available cash balances:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Borrowings (note 21) 131,710 84,744 
Cash and cash equivalents (note 19) (28,583) (36,325)
Net debt 103,127 48,419
Shareholders’ equity 531,378 520,723
Total capital 634,505 569,142
Gearing ratio 16% 9%
During the year, the Group has complied with any capital restrictions and covenant requirements in respect of leverage and interest cover 
ratios associated with the term loan facility. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
116 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Financial risk management continued
Fair value estimation 
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined, in accordance 
with IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’, as follows:
• 
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
• 
inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly 
(that is, derived from process) (Level 2); and
• 
inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014:
Level 1 
 £’000
Level 2
 £’000
Level 3
 £’000
Total
 £’000
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets 33,165 — 125 33,290
Investment property — 13,235 — 13,235
Liabilities
Put options — — 2,560 2,560
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2013:
Level 1 
 £’000
Level 2
 £’000
Level 3
 £’000
Total
 £’000
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets — — 42,877 42,877
Liabilities
Put options — — 4,955 4,955
There was a transfer of available-for-sale financial assets from Level 3 to Level 1 during the period arising from the Zoopla Property Group plc 
IPO which completed in June 2014. This gave rise to a change in valuation technique from that referred to below in Level 3 data to direct 
application of a quoted market price.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) and valuation processes
The following changes were made in Level 3 instruments for the years under review:
2014 2013
Available-for-sale
financial assets
 £’000
Liabilities
 £’000
Available-for-sale
financial assets
 £’000
Liabilities 
 £’000
Opening balance at 1 January 42,877 4,955 14,370 5,560
Acquisitions 5,021 (780) 1,054 —
Disposals (17,786) — — —
Transfers from Level 3 to Level 1 (38,990) — — —
Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss (22) (1,615) (22) (605)
Gains and losses recognised in total comprehensive income 9,025 — 27,475 —
Closing balance at 31 December 125 2,560 42,877 4,955
The fair value of the Zoopla shares was assessed at the 2013 year end by reference to the recent transaction price paid for additional shares 
purchased in December 2013 (by the Group and other shareholders in Zoopla). In addition, other valuation methods were used to support 
the valuation adopted: a discounted cash flow was prepared and an appropriate discount rate was applied to reflect the fact that there is no 
liquid market for these shares (which are also subject to pre-exemption rights and restrictions up to 2015); and a valuation using an earnings 
multiple was undertaken. The year-end valuation was reviewed in light of available data at 31 December 2013 and resulted in a £27.5 million 
uplift in valuation. 
As noted in note 20, the fair value of put options is undertaken using a discounted cash flow based on management’s expectation of 
performance of the underlying entities, consistent with operating plans approved. This method continues to be based on unobservable 
market data, and therefore there have been no changes in valuation techniques adopted in the year and no changes in fair value hierarchies 
in respect of these liabilities.
The Group’s finance department performs the valuations of financial instruments measured at fair value required for financial reporting 
purposes, including Level 3 fair values. This team reports directly to the CFO and Audit Committee. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 117
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
35. Related party transactions 
Key management compensation is given in note 6(b). Other related party transactions are as follows: 
Trading transactions 
Transaction amount Balance (owing)/owed
Related party relationship Transaction type
2014 
 £’000
2013 
 £’000
2014
 £’000
2013
 £’000
Joint venture Purchases by Group (2,539) (2,190) (193) (183)
Joint venture Rebate received 394 975 23 32
Joint venture Dividend received 507 778 — —
Apollo Management Management fee paid — 180 — —
Apollo Management Director’s fee paid — 19 — —
Oaktree Capital Management Management fee paid — 180 — —
Oaktree Capital Management Director’s fee paid 40 35 — (10)
With the exception of dividends and management fees, these transactions are trading relationships which are made at market value. 
The Company has not made any provision for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party debtors nor has any guarantee been 
given during 2014 regarding related party transactions.
Prior to the IPO, Oaktree Capital Management and Apollo Management LP both owned in excess of 20% of the share capital of the Group. 
Following the IPO, each entity had a director on the board of the Company until Apollo Management LP divested its shareholding in the 
second half of 2013. 
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group incurred £Nil (2013: £359,000) split equally between Apollo Management and 
Oaktree Capital Management, in respect of management fees. Following the IPO, management fees have not been incurred but fees have 
been payable in respect of each of the respective directors appointed to the Board at a rate of £40,000 per annum.
36. Events after the reporting period
During the first few weeks of the year the Group has acquired five businesses for £6.9 million. At the time of preparing these financial 
statements, management is in the process of assessing the impact of these acquisitions on the Group. 
The Group debt facility, to which the Company is a party, has also been restructured in February 2015, resulting in an increase in the facility to 
£250 million and reduction in interest margins payable. For further details please refer to the Group financial review within the strategic report 
of the consolidated financial statements.
Since the year end and to the date of this report, the Company has acquired a further 1,465,000 of its own shares through purchases 
on the London Stock Exchange. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £6.8 million. The shares are held as ‘treasury shares’.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Countrywide plc
Report on the parent company 
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion the financial statements, 
defined below:
• 
give a true and fair view of the state 
of the parent company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2014;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of 
what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The parent company financial statements 
(the “financial statements”), which are 
prepared by Countrywide plc, comprise:
• 
the company Balance Sheet as at 
31 December 2014; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Certain disclosures required by the financial 
reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than 
in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial 
statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: 
• 
whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and 
• 
the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• 
the information given in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
• 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and 
information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit; or
• 
adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
• 
the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we 
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, information in 
the Annual Report is:
• 
materially inconsistent with the information 
in the audited financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
• 
is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and 
those of the directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ 
responsibilities statement set out on page 71, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group 
financial statements of Countrywide plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2014.
Darryl Phillips
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
London
26 February 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 119
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Note
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Fixed assets 
Investments 4 147,657 147,657
Current assets
Debtors 5 265,003 271,423
Cash at bank and in hand 6,028 6,835
271,031 278,258
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (44,292) (6,875)
Net current assets 226,739 271,383
Total assets less current liabilities 374,396 419,040
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (78,387) (68,040)
Net assets 296,009 351,000
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 2,194 2,194
Share premium account 9 211,841 211,841
Treasury reserve 9 (14,516) (226)
Profit and loss account 9 96,490 137,191
Total shareholders’ funds 10 296,009 351,000
The notes on pages 120 to 122 form an integral part of the parent company (registration number: 08340090) financial statements.
These financial statements on pages 119 to 122 were approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
26 February 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
120 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the Company financial statements
1. General information and 
accounting policies 
(a) Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of 
Countrywide plc (‘the Company’) are presented, 
for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
They have been prepared on a going concern 
basis, under the historical cost convention 
and in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and applicable accounting standards 
in the United Kingdom. The principal accounting 
policies are set out below and have been 
applied consistently throughout the period.
As permitted under section 408 of the Act 
the Company has elected not to present its 
own profit and loss account for the period. 
The loss for the financial year was £8,176,000 
(2013: £11,870,000). The results of the parent 
company are disclosed in the reserves 
reconciliation in note 9.
The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 
‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, and has 
not disclosed information required by the 
standard as the consolidated financial 
statements, in which the Company is 
included, provide equivalent disclosures 
for the Group under IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
instruments: Disclosures’.
The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption available under FRS 8 ‘Related 
party disclosures’ and not disclosed related 
party transactions with wholly owned 
subsidiary undertakings.
(b) Going concern 
After making enquiries, the directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company 
has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in the 
financial statements.
(c) Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are held at 
historical cost less provision for impairment. 
The carrying values of investments are 
reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
(d) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the 
period presented comprises current and 
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in 
profit or loss except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in equity, 
in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on 
the taxable income for the year, using tax 
rates enacted or substantially enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for 
temporary differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used 
for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner or realisation 
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
the related tax benefit will be realised.
(e) Share-based payments
The cost of granting share options and other 
share-based remuneration to employees 
and directors is recognised through the profit 
and loss account. These are equity settled 
and therefore the fair value is measured at 
the grant date. Where the share awards have 
non-market related performance criteria the 
Company has used the Binomial Lattice and 
Black Scholes option valuation models to 
establish the relevant fair values. Where the 
share awards have a TSR market related 
performance criteria the Company has used 
the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model 
to establish the relevant fair values. The 
resulting values are amortised through the 
income statement over the vesting period 
of the options and other grants. For awards 
with non-market related criteria, the charge 
is reversed if it appears probable that the 
performance criteria will not be met.
The social security contributions payable 
in connection with the grant of the share 
options is considered an integral part of the 
grant itself, and the charge will be treated 
as a cash-settled transaction.
(f) Dividend income
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings 
is recognised at the point the dividend has 
been declared.
(g) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, 
net of transaction costs incurred. Such interest 
bearing liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method, which ensures that any interest 
expense over the period to repayment is at 
a constant rate on the balance of the liability 
carried in the balance sheet. 
(h) Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s 
shareholders is recognised as a liability in the 
Company’s financial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are approved by the 
Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends 
are recognised when paid.
(i) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to 
the issue of new shares are shown in share 
premium as a deduction from the proceeds. 
Where the employee benefit trust purchases 
the Company’s equity share capital (treasury 
shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs 
is deducted from equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders until the shares 
are cancelled or reissued. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 121
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2. Employee costs
The only employees of Countrywide plc are the executive and non-executive directors. Details of the employee costs associated with the 
directors are included in the directors’ remuneration report and summarised below.
2014
£’000
2013 
£’000
Wages and salaries 2,038 1,842
Share-based payments 4,453 2,693
Post-employment benefits – defined contribution and salary supplement 112 91
6,603 4,626
The information as disclosed in the Group’s consolidated financial statements under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ is comparable with the UK 
GAAP disclosure requirements under FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’ therefore please refer to note 27 to the consolidated financial statements 
for further information regarding the Company’s equity-settled share-based payment arrangements.
3. Dividends
2014
£’000
2013 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
– final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.0 pence (net) per share 13,167 —
–  interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 5.0 pence (net) per share  
(2013: 2.0 pence (net) per share) 10,972 4,389
– special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 9.0 pence (net) per share 19,750 —
Total 43,889 4,389
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 10 pence (net) per share, amounting to an estimated total dividend of 
£21.9 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 29 April 2015. In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance 
sheet date’, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
4. Investments
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 147,657
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2014 and at 31 December 2014 —
Net book amount 147,657
The Company owns directly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertaking, Countrywide Holdings, Ltd, 
a company registered in the Cayman Islands whose principal activity is that of investment holding company. Interests in Group undertakings, 
held indirectly by the Company, are detailed within note 17 of the consolidated financial statements.
5. Debtors
2014
£’000
2013 
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by group undertakings 261,669 271,413
Group relief receivable 1,896 —
Deferred tax asset 1,350 —
Prepayments and accrued income 58 —
Other debtors — 10
265,003 271,423
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are unsecured and payable on demand. Interest is received at base rate plus 2.25% per annum.
6. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2014
£’000
2013 
£’000
Bank loans 40,000 5,000
Other creditors 4,292 1,875
44,292 6,875 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
122 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
7. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2014
£’000
2013 
£’000
Bank loans 80,000 70,000
Capitalised banking fees (1,613) (1,960)
78,387 68,040
On 20 February 2014 the Company amended and extended the existing facilities, drawing down an additional £25 million term loan, and 
entered into a £150 million (2013: £100 million) Term and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement which terminates in March 2017, for which 
there are no assets pledged as security. The facilities are split between £100 million Term Loan and £50 million revolving credit facility (RCF). 
The term loan is repaid by instalments: £20 million on 20 March 2015, £25 million on 20 March 2016, £55 million balance due on termination 
on 20 March 2017. Interest is payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%. The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed 
charge and leverage covenants, and was drawn down by £20 million at the year end (see note 21 of the consolidated financial statements).
8. Called up share capital
Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each
Number £’000
At 1 January and 31 December 2014 219,444,961 2,194
The Company acquired 2,917,000 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout October and November 
2014. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £13,262,000. The shares are held as ‘treasury shares’. The Company has the right to 
reissue these shares at a later date. All shares issued by the Company were fully paid. 
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled or reissued. At the year end, 225,151 shares (2013: 39,375 shares), costing £1,254,000 (2013: £226,000), were held in relation 
to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
9. Reserves
Called up
share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
account
£’000
Profit 
and loss
account
£’000
Treasury 
share reserve
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 31 December 2013 2,194 211,841 137,191 (226) 351,000
Loss for the year — — (8,176) — (8,176)
Share-based payment transactions — — 11,364 — 11,364
Treasury shares — — — (14,290) (14,290)
Dividends paid — — (43,889) — (43,889)
Balance at 31 December 2014 2,194 211,841 96,490 (14,516) 296,009
10. Reconciliation of movements in total shareholders’ funds
2014
£’000
2013 
£’000
Loss for the financial year (8,176) (11,870)
Initial issue of shares — 147,656
Purchase of treasury shares (14,290) (226)
IPO issue of shares (net of transactional costs) — 212,470
Dividends paid (43,889) (4,389)
Share-based payment transactions 11,364 7,359
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds (54,991) 351,000
Opening shareholders’ funds 351,000 —
Closing shareholders’ funds 296,009 351,000
For full details on dividends proposed since the year end refer to note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Auditors’ remuneration
The auditor’s remuneration for the audit of the Company is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Fees paid to the 
auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed in the Company’s financial statements because consolidated 
financial statements are prepared which disclose such fees.
12. Post balance sheet events
The Group debt facility, to which the Company is a party, has also been restructured in February 2015, resulting in an increase in the facility to 
£250 million and reduction in interest margins payable. For further details please refer to the Group financial review within the strategic report 
of the consolidated financial statements.
Since the year end and to the date of this report, the Company has acquired a further 1,465,000 of its own shares through purchases 
on the London Stock Exchange. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £6.8 million. The shares are held as ‘treasury shares’.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 123
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Company information
Contacts
Chief executive officer
Alison Platt
Chief financial officer
Jim Clarke
Company secretary
Gareth Williams
Website
www.countrywide.co.uk
Registered office
17 Duke Street 
Chelmsford 
Essex CM1 1HP
Registered in England
08340090
Corporate headquarters
Countrywide House
88–103 Caldecotte Lake Drive 
Caldecotte 
Milton Keynes MK7 8JT
Registrar
Capita Asset Services*
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
Corporate advisors
Independent auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Lloyds Bank plc 
HSBC Bank plc 
Abbey National Treasury Services plc 
Barclays Bank Plc 
AIB Group (UK) plc
Broker
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
Financial calendar
AGM 29 April 2015
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 26 March 2015
Record date for final dividend 27 March 2015
Payment date for final dividend 7 May 2015
Interim results 30 July 2015
Record date for interim dividend 11 September 2015
Interim dividend paid 9 October 2015
* Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrar is Capita Asset Services. They will be pleased 
to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividends. 
Please notify them of your change of address or other personal 
information. There address details are above.
Capita Asset Services is a trading name of Capita Asset Services Limited.
Capita shareholder helpline:  0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence 
per minute plus network extras) 
(Overseas: +44 02 8639 3399)
Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Share portal: www.capitashareportal.com
Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and 
facilities included electronic communications, account enquiries, 
amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions. 124 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
This report includes forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements can be identified 
by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘may’, ‘will’ or ‘should’ or, 
in each case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not 
historical facts. They appear in a number of places throughout this report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current 
expectations concerning, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies, the industry 
in which we operate and potential acquisitions. We derive many of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, 
which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult 
to predict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. 
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to us on the date of this report. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that 
may or may not occur in the future. We caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that our 
actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, the development of the industry in which we operate and the effect of acquisitions 
on us may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. In addition, even if 
our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which we operate are consistent with the 
forward-looking statements contained in this report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in 
subsequent periods. Important factors that could cause those differences include, but are not limited to: 
• 
a decline in the number of transactions, prices or commission levels in the UK residential property market, whether due to the impact 
of macro-economic factors or otherwise; 
• 
increased or reduced competition in the industry in which we operate; 
• 
changes in, or our failure or inability to comply with, government laws or regulations; 
• 
the loss of any of our important commercial relationships; and
• 
any increase in our professional liabilities or any adverse development in the litigation or other disputes to which we are a party.
We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. We urge you 
to read the operating and financial review for a more complete discussion of the factors that could affect our future performance and the industry 
in which we operate. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events described in this report may not occur. 
We undertake no obligation, and do not expect, to publicly update or publicly revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on 
our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above and contained elsewhere in this report.
Forward-looking statements Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% 
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 100% 
virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC
®
 
certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using 
an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 125
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Awards
 
Countrywide plc 
commissioned photography: 
Baz Seal www.reporterpix.com
The British Mortgage 
Awards 2014
The Times and The Sunday Times Awards 2014
The ESTAS 2014 Mortgage Finance Gazette 
Awards 2014
RESI Awards 2014
Mortgage Strategy 
Awards 2014
The Negotiator Awards 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Countrywide plc
Countrywide House 
88–103 Caldecotte Lake Drive 
Caldecotte 
Milton Keynes MK7 8JT
+44 (0)1908 961000 
investor@countrywide.co.uk 
www.countrywide.co.uk
