 Dairy Crest Group plc  Annual Report 2015
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors/
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2015 This report is printed on Chorus Lux Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 1
Strategic report The numbers Governance
 2 At a glance
  Strategic report
 4 Our business model 
 6 Our strategy
 8 Our people
 10 Chairman’s statement
 11 Chief Executive’s review
 14 Principal risks and uncertainties
 16 Performance
 16 – Cheese & whey 
 18 – Spreads & butters
 20 – Dairies
 22 – Milk Procurement
 23 – Corporate Responsibility
 28 – Financial review
  Governance
 32 Board of Directors and Advisers
 34 Management team
 35 Corporate governance
 45 Directors’ remuneration report
 63 Directors’ report
 66 Statement of Directors’
  responsibilities
  The numbers
 67 Independent auditor’s report
 71 Consolidated income statement
 72 Consolidated statement
  of comprehensive income
 73 Consolidated and Parent
  Company balance sheets
 74 Consolidated statement
  of changes in equity
 75 Parent Company statement
  of changes in equity
 76 Consolidated and Parent
  Company statement of cash flows
 77 Accounting policies
 83 Notes to the financial statements
 121 Group financial history
 122 Shareholders’ information
Dairy Crest processes and markets branded dairy 
products and nutritious fresh milk. The Company 
has a well-established strategy, a clear vision, 
robust values and good people.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 Dairy Crest has grown the 
combined sales and profits of our predominantly branded 
Cheese and whey and Spreads and butter businesses.
We have also negotiated the sale of our Dairies operations. 
Reported sales and profits from these operations have both 
fallen in the year. 
The sale, which will transform Dairy Crest and allow us to 
focus further on profitable growth, is subject to the approval 
of the competition authorities.
We constantly innovate, bringing new products to market and 
new ways of working across the business.
We are a responsible business and have been awarded five 
stars by Business in the Community up from four and a half 
stars last year, maintaining our place at the very top of their 
index.
At the end of a year of change, Dairy Crest is well positioned 
to deliver sustainable and profitable growth for the benefit of 
everyone connected to the business.
CONTENTS
1
Notice: Limitations on Director liability – 
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide 
information to members of the Company and it 
has been prepared for, and only for, the members 
of the Company, as a body. The Company its 
Directors, employees, agents and advisors do 
not accept or assume responsibility to any other 
person to whom this document is shown or 
into whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility is expressly disclaimed. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the 
liability of Directors in respect of statements in 
and omissions from the Report of the Directors 
contained on pages 4 to 33 and 35 to 44. Under 
English law the Directors would be liable to 
the Company (but not to any third party) if the 
Report of the Directors contained errors as a 
result of recklessness or knowing misstatement 
or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but 
would not otherwise be liable. The Report of the 
Directors has been drawn up and presented in 
accordance with and in reliance upon English 
company law. Liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with that report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Cautionary statement regarding forward 
looking statements – The Group’s reports 
including this Annual Report and Accounts and 
written information released or oral statements 
made to the public in future, by or on behalf 
of the Company and the Group, may contain 
forward-looking statements. By their nature, 
these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results 
to differ materially from those anticipated. The 
forward-looking statements reflect knowledge 
and information available at the time of their 
preparation and, except to the extent required by 
applicable regulations or by law, the Company 
and the Group undertake no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report and Accounts should be construed 
as a profit forecast.
Non-GAAP measures of financial performance 
used throughout this Annual Report and 
Accounts are defined in the Financial review 
on pages 28 to 31 and in Note 1 to the 
financial statements. 2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Who we are
Dairy Crest processes and markets branded dairy products and nutritious fresh milk
Cheese & whey
66% 3%
Dairies revenue Dairies proﬁt
48% 21%
Cheese revenue
Contribution to Group: % of total Group. Revenue excludes other revenue. Proﬁt is product group proﬁt excluding associates.
Cheese proﬁt Spreads revenue
13% 49%
Spreads proﬁt
Dairy Crest has the leading cheese brand 
in the UK, Cathedral City, and a world-
class cheese supply chain. Cathedral City 
is made at our Davidstow creamery in 
Cornwall from milk supplied by local dairy 
farmers. The cheese is matured, cut and 
wrapped at our purpose-built facility in 
Nuneaton from where it is despatched to 
retailers. 
 We also have a smaller cheese 
packing facility at Frome, Somerset which 
provides the business with additional 
flexibility. We currently dry the whey that 
is produced as a by-product of cheese 
making at Davidstow. 
 We are developing a new facility that 
will manufacture demineralised whey 
powder and galacto-oligosaccharide, a 
lactose based prebiotic.
AT A GLANCE
Vision

To generate growth by building strong positions in 
branded and added value markets

To simplify, make sustainable and reduce costs

To generate cash and reduce risk

To make acquisitions where they will generate value
Strategy

We are proud of our links to the countryside, our dairy 
heritage and the part they play in everyday life

We want to earn the right to consumers’ loyalty by 
providing healthy, enjoyable, convenient products

We aim to meet consumers’ needs and go where this 
takes us

As we grow, we will look after our people and the 
communities where we work
Highlights

Cathedral City continues to grow market 
share and is now Britain’s 16th largest 
grocery brand (Source: The Grocer)

Cathedral City now accounts for over 
50% of total retail branded cheddar sales

Our premium brand Davidstow has also 
grown market share

On track to produce demineralised whey 
and galacto-oligosaccharide later in 2015
Highlights

FRijj sales up by 7%

Reduced sugar FRijj variant introduced

Ongoing cost reductions achieved

Property profits £17.6 million
Highlights

Country Life Spreadable continues to 
grow and outperform the market 

Clover maintains market share – awarded 
‘Best Buy’ in spreads category by Which 
magazine

Frylight sales growing strongly

Packet butter and spreads manufacturing 
consolidated into one site
Dairy Crest produces some of the UK’s 
leading spreads and butter brands. We 
focus on two key brands Clover and 
Country Life.
 We also manufacture and sell Frylight 
one calorie cooking spray.
 During the year we have consolidated 
the production of spreads and packet 
butters at Kirkby, Merseyside.
We process and deliver fresh conventional, 
organic and flavoured milk to major 
retailers, ‘middle ground’ customers 
including smaller retailers, coffee shops 
and hospitals, and residential customers.
 We also manufacture and sell FRijj, the 
leading fresh flavoured milk brand, cream 
and milk powders. 
 Dairies also benefit from property profits 
arising from the sale of surplus depots. 
On 6 November 2014 Dairy Crest 
agreed to sell its Dairies operations 
to Muller UK and Ireland Group 
LLP for £80 million in cash on 
completion. The sale has been 
approved by shareholders 
but remains conditional on 
the approval of the relevant 
competition authorities.
 Details of the sale are included 
in the Financial review on page 29.
Sale of Dairies
Spreads & butters Dairies
Product groups Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 3
Spreads & butters
Cheese & whey
Chard
2
Severnside
1
Chadwell Heath
1
Hanworth
1,3
Foston
1
Nuneaton
Frome
Davidstow
Kirkby
Erith
1. Site included in the proposed
 sale of Dairies operations.
2. Planning to close 2015.
3. Planning to close 2016.
11 12 13 14 15
Adjusted proﬁt
before tax* (£m)
Revenue 
(£m)
311.6
336.4
59.7
142.2
198.7
Net debt
(£m)
11 12 13 14 15
1,502.2
1,514.7
1,381.6
1,391.0
1,329.8
11 12 13 14 15
52.9
47.5
49.7
65.3
60.6
*
Before exceptionals, 
amortisation of 
acquired intangibles 
and pension interest 
Financial highlights o ur retail markets
Country Life milk Fresh milk 
to retailers
n o1 ready 
to drink 
flavoured milk
Residential 
delivery – 
‘milk&more’
n o1 UK dairy 
spread
Frylight 1Cal
n o1 UK branded 
cheese
Dairies
Production sites
IRI market data, 
52 weeks ended 
28 March 2015
£ million
Cheese 2,453
Butter and 
spreads
1,161
Milk 2,764
Ready to drink 
flavoured milk
268 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Packaged milk Dairies and Spreads
Cheese
Cream
Raw milk
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Dairy Crest processes and markets branded dairy 
products and nutritious fresh milk. Our business 
depends on milk and we make sure we use every 
drop we buy. This diagram shows how milk ﬂows 
through our business and the products we make 
from it. 
We have three product groups: Cheese & whey, 
Spreads & butters and Dairies. 
A sustainable supply of high 
quality milk is important to 
Dairy Crest. We buy 1.9 
billion litres each year – 
around 1 litre in every 6 
produced in Great Britain.
After the conditional sale of 
our Dairies operations we 
expect our annual milk 
purchasing volumes to fall to 
around 500 million litres.
We process over 400 million 
litres of milk into cheese each 
year; which is all sourced 
directly from dairy farmers in 
Devon and Cornwall and 
turned into cheddar cheese at 
our creamery in Davidstow.
Currently we dry the whey that 
is produced as a by-product of 
making cheese and sell it to 
food manufacturers. In future 
we plan to make demineralised 
whey powder – a key 
ingredient in infant formula.
Our Spreads & butters 
operation makes packet butter 
and dairy spreads from cream 
separated from the milk 
processed by our Dairies 
operations and vegetable oil.
After the conditional sale of our 
Dairies operations we will make 
packet butter from purchased 
bulk butter.
Making the most from milk
Cheese & whey Milk procurement Spreads & butters Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 5
Strategic report
Cream for 
manufacturing
Potted cream
Bulk butter
Buttermilk
Dairy spreads
Skimmed milk 
powder
Middle ground
Residential
Retail
Whey
Cheese
Spreads & butters
Dairies
Cheese & whey
Butter
Packet butter
Our Dairies operations process 
around 1.4 billion litres of milk 
each year. Most is sourced 
direct from dairy farmers 
across the southern half of 
England and Wales. Milk 
production is seasonal with 
more being produced in the 
spring, but because our 
consumers want to drink the 
same amount every day, we 
turn any surplus milk we have 
into skimmed milk powder and 
butter. Over 90% of the milk 
purchased for our Dairies 
operations is sold in liquid form, 
through UK retailers, ‘middle 
ground’ customers ranging 
from coffee shops to hospitals, 
and direct to consumers’ 
doorsteps by our milkmen.
Today’s consumers prefer to 
drink lower fat varieties of milk 
so we separate the cream and 
sell it or churn it into butter.
Our Dairies operations also 
produce potted cream.
Dairies 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
OUR STRATEGY
Our vision
Dairy Crest has a clear 
strategy. We have also 
created a strong vision 
and robust values for the 
business which underpin 
all we do.
We constantly innovate, 
bringing new products to 
market and new ways of 
working across the business.
We aim to generate cash and 
reward shareholders with a 
progressive dividend.
Our key performance indicators 
are summarised opposite. 
These KPIs are also used as 
measures for our Long Term 
Alignment Plan (LTAP) for 
Directors and senior 
employees. (See pages 59 to 
60 for more detail).
We are proud of our links to 
the countryside, our dairy 
heritage and the part they 
play in everyday life
We want to earn consumers’ 
loyalty by providing healthy, 
enjoyable, convenient products
Our values
WE LISTEN
Consumers are at the heart of 
our business
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
Operational performance – pages 16 to 22
Financial performance – page 28
Corporate responsibility performance – 
page 23
See how we make ‘The most from milk’ 
through our integrated business model – 
pages 4 and 5
Further details of our LTAP – pages 54 
and 55
Our strategy Progress 2014/15
1
  To generate 
growth by building 
strong positions in 
branded and added 
value markets
Cathedral City had another good year, growing sales ahead of the 
retail cheese market. It has grown to be Britain’s 16th largest grocery 
brand (Source: The Grocer, 21 March 2015), up from 18th in March 
2014.
Both Country Life (butter) and Clover (spread) saw their sales value 
fall in a declining butter and spreads market although sales of 
Country Life Spreadable grew in the year.
FRijj sales grew by 7%.
Frylight one calorie cooking spray continued to grow sales and 
market share. The brand has responded well to the increased 
investment behind it and has the potential to grow further. 
During the year we have carried out a comprehensive category 
strategy project ‘Dairy for Life’ which forms the foundation for future 
innovation, marketing and category merchandising for our key brands.
We are investing £65 million at our Davidstow creamery to 
manufacture demineralised whey and galacto-oligosaccharide 
(‘GOS’) and expect commercial production of these products to start 
later in 2015.
Following the closure of our Crudgington site, we are building a new 
£4 million innovation centre at Harper Adams University in Shropshire, 
where our innovation team is now based.
2  
To simplify, make 
sustainable and 
reduce costs
Cost reduction remains a key part of our strategy and we have again 
achieved our target of making cost savings in excess of £20 million in 
the year. 
Prior to the announcement of the conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations we announced our plans to close our specialised cream 
potting facility at Chard, Somerset in 2015 and our glass bottling dairy 
at Hanworth, West London in 2016. Both these projects are on track.
3  
To generate cash 
and reduce risk
We have agreed to sell our Dairies operations. The conditional sale 
is a positive development for Dairy Crest and the wider UK dairy 
sector. Shareholders have approved the sale and the process to 
obtain regulatory approval is on track. Completion of the sale will 
result in Dairy Crest operating from ﬁve well invested manufacturing 
sites. It will be a much simpler, more focused, predominantly 
branded business.
We continue to reduce risk in our closed deﬁned-beneﬁt pension 
scheme. During the year we have reduced the scheme’s exposure to 
equities and other higher-risk asset classes.
4  
To make 
acquisitions where 
they will generate 
value
Our focus in the year ended 31 March 2015 has been on organic 
growth, typiﬁed by our investment in demineralised whey and GOS. 
We have not made any acquisitions during the year ended 31 
March 2015. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 7
Strategic report Strategic report
We aim to meet 
consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
As we grow, we look after our 
people and the communities 
where we work
WE LEAD 
We value success and 
strive to be the best
WE RESPECT
We value our people and are 
stronger together
WE CARE
We act responsibly with a passion 
to do the right thing
Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance  
in the year ended 31 March 2015
Our focus will remain on our key brands, Cathedral 
City, Country Life, Clover, FRijj and, from 2015/16, 
Frylight.
We will continue to invest in marketing these brands 
– including advertising, promotions and innovative 
range extensions.
We will work with key customers to build on Dairy for 
Life and grow the categories in which we operate. 
Working with Fonterra, our selected sales agent, 
we will aim to maximise the long term return from 
our investment in demineralised whey and GOS at 
Davidstow.
We will continue to seek cost reductions and 
efficiency improvements across our business. The 
sale of our Dairies operations will significantly reduce 
the complexity of the business and will allow us to 
streamline our future overhead structure and systems.
Our investment in whey and GOS is nearing 
completion and we expect capital expenditure to fall 
below depreciation. 
We will continue to reduce pension scheme risk, 
initially by further reducing the proportion of higher 
risk/higher return assets in the scheme. 
Completion of the sale of Dairies will much reduce our 
exposure to commodity risk. We will continue to work 
with commodity suppliers and customers to share risk 
as appropriate.
We have the opportunity to make acquisitions that will 
contribute to growth and strengthen the business. 
Any acquisitions we do make will have to meet strict 
criteria.
Deliver progressive dividends with cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times. 
In the year ended 31 March 2015 the Board is recommending a 
total dividend up 1.9%. This is covered 1.8 times.
Grow earnings before interest, tax and depreciation (adjusted EBITDA*) and 
adjusted profit before tax (adjusted PBT*). 
In the year ended 31 March 2015 adjusted EBITDA* fell by 7% and 
adjusted PBT* also fell by 7%. However adjusted EBITDA* and 
adjusted PBT* for the combined Cheese and whey and Spreads 
and butters product groups – which will be the heart of the 
business after a sale of our Dairies operations – grew by 15% 
and 19% respectively year on year.
Deliver an acceptable return on capital employed (ROCE).
ROCE for the year ended 31 March 2015 was 11.5%, compared to 
the long term target of 12% (31 March 2014: 13.8%).
Maintain net debt/EBITDA within the range 1 – 2 times.
At 31 March 2015 net debt/EBITDA was 1.97 times (31 March 
2014: 1.3 times).
Grow our four key brands ahead of the market.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 three of our four key brands 
grew ahead of the market taking into account all sales channels 
(31 March 2014: one key brand grew ahead of the market). In 
addition Frylight has grown ahead of the market for both years.
Deliver cost savings initiatives.
Cost reduction projects initiated in the year ended 31 March 
2015 have again delivered annual benefits ahead of our £20 
million annual target.
Achieve revenue targets for products developed in the last 3 years.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 around 6% of our total revenue 
and 7% of our key brand revenue came from such sales against 
an ambitious target of 10% (31 March 2014: 4% of total revenue; 
7% of key brand revenue).
Improve corporate responsibility measures. 
In the year ended 31 March 2015 we achieved a score of 5 stars 
from Business in the Community (31 March 2014: 4.5 stars).
* Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest.
There is a more detailed review of our performance against KPIs on pages 59 and 60. 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
OUR PEOPLE
Retaining a 
talented workforce
Striving for a more 
engaged workforce
To make sure we retain and develop our 
talent, we use our annual appraisal system 
to identify employees with high career 
development potential and invite them 
to join our talent programme. In 2014 39 
took up the offer of participating in the 
programme which includes mentoring by 
senior staff, psychometric assessment and 
career workshops. 
 By way of emphasising our 
commitment to retaining talent and staff, 
this year we introduced several new 
corporate responsibility pledges with 
the aim of increasing focus on this key 
area. New pledges include increasing 
the percentage of staff who have over 
five years’ experience, and increasing the 
percentage of roles filled internally. 
 Taken as a whole we believe the 
investment we have made in recruiting, 
retaining and rewarding our staff has 
helped us maintain a turnover rate of 
around 13%, an absence rate of less than 
3% and ensured that over a quarter of our 
employees have chosen to participate in 
our sharesave scheme.
Our dedicated learning and development 
team works across the business to ensure 
that the right development opportunities are 
available to the whole workforce from line 
operators and factory team leaders through 
to finance managers and senior directors.
 In the dairy sector, as in the UK food 
industry as a whole, there is a shortage 
of food scientists and engineers. To help 
tackle this problem and to ensure that Dairy 
Crest is operationally fit for the future, we 
have continued to invest in our technology 
and engineering apprenticeship schemes 
which were launched in 2011 and 2012 
respectively. 
 At our new Innovation Centre at Harper 
Adams University in Shropshire we support 
undergraduate students studying a food 
science related subject. The food science 
placement gives them the opportunity of 
getting hands on experience working on 
product and packaging innovation and is in 
addition to our sponsorship of places at the 
Reading and Nottingham Universities ‘sixth 
form summer schools’. 
 Joining any big business can be 
daunting; to ensure new recruits get off 
to the best possible start and receive a 
comprehensive overview of the Company, 
all new starters are invited to participate in 
our group induction programme. Over the 
course of this financial year 792 new starters 
availed themselves of the programme. 
This course ensures they understand our 
business strategy, our vision and the values 
to which we operate that have been the 
foundation of our success. 
 Once on-board all staff, where 
appropriate, can attend face-to-face 
development courses and via our e-learning 
portal can participate in online courses 
ranging from health and safety through to IT 
training. Since it was launched in 2010 over 
3,000 people have logged onto the system, 
with over 8,000 courses having been 
completed. 
 It has, however, also been a challenging 
year for many Dairy Crest staff. Over the 
course of the last 12 months we have 
restructured our business to ensure we 
are better placed to drive growth and 
create a more integrated, efficient supply 
chain. Where these changes have resulted 
in the reduction of roles, for example the 
necessary but regrettable decision to close 
our creamery at Crudgington and several 
milk depots, we have supported staff with 
a range of tools and services which have 
helped them find alternative roles inside 
and outside the Company. Indeed, this 
supportive approach is now included in our 
corporate responsibility pledges.
Dairy Crest is committed 
to providing an inclusive 
working environment 
where everyone feels 
valued and respected 
and has the opportunity 
to progress.
We recognise that 
people treated and 
rewarded fairly are more 
loyal and are more 
likely to champion fresh 
ideas which help to 
improve our working 
practices which in turn 
deliver commercial 
beneﬁt and ultimately 
shareholder value.
A successful and happy workforce is 
one that is involved and engaged in the 
business. As well as striving to continually 
improve our score in staff surveys we also 
make sure that employees not only know 
what is going on but that they are the first 
to know what is going on. To help achieve 
this we provide staff with a weekly news 
round-up, monthly business performance 
reports, a staff website and we run company 
road shows that all employees are invited 
to attend. Finally, to safeguard employees 
against bullying and harassment at work and 
to also ensure that bribery and corruption 
are never tolerated, we have formal policies 
in place and a confidential staff helpline to 
provide direct support and guidance.
Since it was launched  
in 2010 approximately
3,000
people have logged onto 
our e-learning portal
In 2014/15 
618
employees received a 
recognition award
Investing in our 
staff Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 9
r eward and 
recognition
Diversity and 
inclusion
Working together 
with Trade Unions
Strategic report Strategic report
Being valued and recognised at work is 
important. Our aim is to not only reward 
staff fairly for the work they do through 
a competitive remuneration package but 
to also ensure that they too share in our 
commercial successes. To help achieve 
this almost all staff are part of a bonus 
or incentive scheme which is linked to 
either personal, site and/or Company 
performance. 
 To encourage a team atmosphere 
and to be better at rewarding success 
in the workplace we have a reward and 
recognition scheme in place whereby any 
member of staff can nominate another for 
a job well done and the best performing 
team in the Company is formally 
recognised. Despite a smaller workforce 
we are pleased to report that there 
was an increase in the number of staff 
successfully nominated up from 551 in 
2013/14 to 618 in 2014/15. The 2014 team 
of the year award was presented to staff 
from our Frome site for the work they did 
to achieve top marks for a Food Standards 
audit from a leading retailer. 
 To help colleagues save their money 
outside of work in July 2014 we launched 
a new, bespoke Dairy Crest benefits 
website which provides colleagues with 
access to a valuable range of discounts 
on products and services. By March 2015 
over 1,500 members of staff had signed 
up to the website. 
We believe that for people to be the 
most productive, they need to achieve an 
appropriate balance in their commitment 
to the workplace and their home life. Any 
employee regardless of their position, 
location or role should feel that they are 
treated flexibly in their ways of working 
according to business needs. We wish 
to have a fully diverse workforce as we 
recognise that people from different 
backgrounds, experiences and abilities 
bring fresh ideas and innovations that 
improve our business. Employees will be 
encouraged to reach their full potential 
regardless of their age, gender, marital 
status (including civil partnerships), 
disability, nationality, colour, ethnic 
origin, sexual orientation or religious 
affiliation. Dairy Crest does not tolerate 
discrimination or harassment on any of 
these grounds. To help us achieve our 
aims our polices include the right to apply 
for flexible working hours, a sabbatical, 
support with taking time off to study, 
and we provide maternity pay above the 
statutory minimum and full pay during 
paternity leave. 
 Following the creation of a new 
diversity working group in 2014, which is 
made up of volunteers from all parts of 
the business and chaired by our Group 
Supply Chain Director, the key areas the 
business will be focusing on over the next 
12 months will include driving diversity 
through recruitment and promotion, 
increasing the number of female managers 
and providing language support to 
workers where their first language is not 
English. In addition to coming top of the 
Business in the Community Index 2015, of 
which diversity is a key part, we were also 
pleased to be named by Waitrose as the 
overall winner of their prestigious ‘treating 
people fairly’ supplier award.
1
st
 1 ,500+
have signed up to the 
bespoke Dairy Crest 
benefits website
All employees
Gender proﬁle
Senior management
Female
24%   
Male
76% 
Female
17%   
Male
83% 
As a progressive employer we recognise 
and respect the positive role that trade 
unions can play in the development of our 
employees and our business. Indeed both 
Dairy Crest and the Unions, Usdaw and 
Unite, agree the importance of working 
together towards long term employment 
security and wherever possible avoid 
redundancy though redeployment. In our 
true working partnerships, we strive to 
achieve a genuine sharing of information 
and openness. 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Transformational sale
In November 2014 we agreed to sell the 
assets of our Dairies operations to Muller 
UK & Ireland Group LLP (‘Müller’) for a 
cash consideration of £80 million. The 
sale has been overwhelmingly approved 
by shareholders but remains conditional 
on the approval of the Competition and 
Markets Authority. It is pleasing that we 
have received support for the sale from the 
independent organisation that represents 
our farmers, Dairy Crest Direct, and the 
wider farming community.
 Combining our Dairies business with 
that of Müller will build on the progress 
that Dairy Crest has already achieved, 
strengthen the wider UK dairy sector and 
allow Dairy Crest to focus on growing our 
successful cheese and spreads operations.
 The financial results for the year ended 
31 March 2015, delivered in a particularly 
challenging environment, highlight the 
differing financial performance of the 
business we are selling and those that we 
will retain and which will be at the heart of 
Dairy Crest in the future. 
 We have continued to make good 
progress with projects that enhance the 
future prospects of these businesses, 
including consolidating butter and spreads 
production onto one site and investing 
in demineralised whey and galacto-
oligosaccharide – innovative products that 
will expand our product range and give us 
access to new sales channels in growing 
global markets.
Living by our Vision and Values
Dairy Crest has robust values and a 
clear vision. The Board recognises 
its responsibilities to the farmers who 
supply us with milk, our employees 
and franchisees, our pensioners, the 
communities in which we operate and 
our shareholders. We use the framework 
that our well established Vision and 
Values provide to balance the different 
interests of these groups.
Anthony Fry
Whilst I was very pleased to take up the 
role of Chairman in September 2014, I did 
so with mixed feelings. I was delighted 
to have the opportunity to be able to 
contribute further to the future of Dairy 
Crest but saddened by the departure due 
to illness of my predecessor, Anthony Fry, 
who left the Board at that time. Anthony 
had a significant influence on the business 
in his seven years as a Non-executive 
director and especially for the four years 
he served as Chairman. I would like to 
thank Anthony on behalf of the Board 
for his considerable contribution to the 
development of Dairy Crest and to wish 
him well with his recovery. 
 I would also like to thank Richard 
Macdonald who was Acting Chairman 
while Anthony was away from the business 
and has now resumed his role as Senior 
Independent Director.
It is very important that the Company 
has not let the tough trading environment 
and the transformational activities that we 
have undertaken in the year deflect us 
from our commitment to act responsibly. 
This has been reflected in our continuing 
strong performance in the Business in 
the Community Index where we have 
maintained our position as their highest 
ranked business in the UK and further 
improved our score.
Board changes
In addition to the departure of Anthony 
Fry, to which I refer above, Martyn Wilks, 
Executive Managing Director, left Dairy 
Crest on 31 March 2015 to pursue other 
interests. Martyn was on the Board for 
seven years and played a key role in 
building our brands. He left Dairy Crest 
with our best wishes for the future. Martyn 
has not been replaced on the Board at 
this time. 
Increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 15.7 pence per share, making 
a full year dividend of 21.7 pence per 
share, up 1.9% from last year. This 
dividend is covered 1.8 times by adjusted 
basic earnings per share, compared to 
1.9 times last year. Looking ahead, we 
propose to maintain our progressive 
dividend policy with a target cover range 
of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Summary
The conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations will transform Dairy Crest and 
leave a predominantly branded business 
that has delivered strong financial results 
in the year. The business will benefit 
from greater focus on sectors where it is 
already strong and where it has significant 
growth potential.
Stephen Alexander Chairman
20 May 2015
Total Product group profits of Cheese and 
Spreads businesses up 19% year on year. 
Sale of Dairies operations approved by 
shareholders; regulatory approval progressing 
to plan.
Cathedral City brand continues to grow 
strongly – now Britain’s 16th largest grocery 
brand, accounting for over 50% of total 
branded retail cheddar sales.
On track to start production of demineralised 
whey powder and galacto-oligosaccharide for 
growing global markets this year. 
Strong Corporate Responsibility commitment 
maintained – top ranked UK business by 
Business in the Community for second 
consecutive year. 
Proposed final dividend payment of 15.7p 
taking full year to 21.7p, up 1.9%.
Highlights Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 11
Strategic report
quarter and ended the year close to 
half the peak they reached as recently 
as the autumn of 2013. The collapse in 
these markets and high milk production 
around the world and in the UK have led 
to a significant reduction in the price UK 
farmers have received for their milk. Our 
purchase prices for milk fell by around 
25% across the year, reversing the 
increases we have paid in recent years.
 The long-awaited abolition of European 
milk production quotas took effect 
from 1 April 2015. This has been widely 
expected to lead to an increase in milk 
production across Europe, although not 
in the UK where production has been 
unconstrained by quotas. It is too early 
to say how the reduction in global dairy 
commodity prices and the removal of 
quotas will affect milk production and 
imports of dairy products, particularly 
cheddar cheese, into the UK, although 
cheddar imports into the UK decreased 
9% in the year ended 31 December 2014 
(Source: DairyCo). While we monitor this 
situation closely we anticipate that our 
market leading Cathedral City branded 
cheddar will not be affected significantly 
by these changes and will continue to 
perform strongly.
 Against this market background we 
continue to position ourselves to deliver 
sustainable and profitable growth.
Transformational sale of Dairies 
operations
In November 2014 we agreed to sell 
the assets of our Dairies operations to 
Müller for a cash consideration of £80 
million. The conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations will result in Dairy Crest 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Summary
This has been another year of significant 
progress for Dairy Crest. We have 
grown combined Cheese and Spreads 
sales despite the deflationary market 
environment. We have also delivered 
an encouraging improvement in the 
combined margins of these businesses. 
Cathedral City has again outperformed 
and accounts for over 50% of retail 
sales of branded cheddar. Our focus on 
product development has underpinned 
these results and our investment in a 
new innovation centre will support this.  
We have again met our target to deliver 
annual cost savings of over £20 million. 
These include consolidating our butter and 
spreads production onto one site.
 We have agreed to sell our Dairies 
operations. The conditional sale is a 
positive development for Dairy Crest and 
the wider UK dairy sector. Shareholders 
have approved the sale and the process 
to obtain regulatory approval is on track. 
Completion of the sale will result in Dairy 
Crest operating from five well-invested 
manufacturing sites. It will be a much 
simpler, more focused, predominantly 
branded business. It will also have 
exposure to the growing infant formula 
category and emerging markets.
Market background
This year has been a difficult one for 
the major food retailers, our principal 
customers. They have faced falling sales 
due to food price deflation and greater 
competition. 
 It has also been a very difficult year 
for dairy farmers. Global dairy commodity 
prices have fallen steeply since the first 
becoming a stronger, predominantly 
branded business that can grow profitably 
and generate cash.
 In December 2014 Dairy Crest’s 
shareholders overwhelmingly approved the 
proposed sale, which remains conditional 
on the approval of the competition 
authorities. This process is on track. The 
European Commission referred it back 
to the UK for review by the Competition 
and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) which 
is currently expected to make a phase 
one decision in June 2015. Although this 
deadline may change and the review 
could move to a second phase we remain 
confident that a sale will ultimately be 
approved and proceed.
 The conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations and their subsequent 
combination with Müller’s dairies business 
will help create a more sustainable UK 
dairy sector by delivering economies 
of scale and cost efficiencies that will 
underpin investment and help the UK 
to compete more successfully in global 
markets. It is encouraging that we have 
received support for the sale from the 
independent organisation that represents 
our farmers, Dairy Crest Direct, and the 
wider farming community.
 A successful outcome will benefit 
farmers, consumers, customers, 
employees and Dairy Crest’s shareholders.
Cathedral City outperforms
In total, sales of our four key brands, 
Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life and 
FRijj were unchanged over the year. As the 
table on page 12 shows, both Cathedral 
City and FRijj performed strongly. However 
Clover and Country Life sales both fell in a 
butter and spreads market that continues 
to decline. Despite this we saw a welcome 
increase in margins in our Spreads and 
butters business.
 Cathedral City again outperformed 
the market and grew sales by 5%. Its 
annual growth over the last five years 
has averaged over 7%. Cathedral City is 
now Britain’s 16th largest grocery brand 
(Source: The Grocer 21 March 2015) up 
from 18th last year. Cathedral City now 
accounts for over 50% of total branded 
retail cheddar sales. Sales of competing 
cheddar brands have continued to decline. 
Taken together retail sales of the next 
three largest cheddar brands were down 
over 20% in the year and were just half 
those of Cathedral City.
 The UK butter and spreads market 
remains difficult. Total market sales fell by 
4%. Consumption is falling as consumers 
continue to turn away from making 
sandwiches in the home. Butter, where 
market sales are unchanged compared 
to last year, continues to gain share  12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
from spreads where sales are down 
8%. Against this background Clover and 
Country Life butter, our two key brands in 
this market, have delivered a satisfactory 
performance. Clover performed in line with 
the spreads market as a whole and was 
awarded Which magazine’s ‘Best Buy’ 
in the spreads category (Source: Which 
February 2015). Country Life Spreadable, 
which accounts for nearly 60% of total 
Country Life butter and spreads sales 
outperformed the butter market and grew 
sales by 2%. We expect to use some 
of the savings we will achieve from the 
consolidation of our spreads and packet 
butter production to increase marketing 
expenditure in this high-margin category.
 FRijj performed well. In a ready to 
drink flavoured milk market that is still 
growing, but at a much slower pace than 
last year, FRijj sales grew by 7%. Some 
of this growth came from sales to the 
food service and convenience sectors 
and is therefore not reflected in the IRI 
market data which just covers major 
multiples. The FRijj brand is included in the 
conditional sale of our Dairies operations 
to Müller.
 We have also seen strong growth 
from Frylight one calorie cooking spray, 
which we purchased in 2011. This brand 
has responded well to the increased 
investment in marketing that we have 
made consistently since then and has 
the potential to grow further. In future 
we expect to report it as one of our key 
brands alongside Cathedral City, Clover 
and Country Life butter and spreads.
 Dairy is one of the UK’s largest food 
retail categories and during the year 
Dairy Crest carried out a comprehensive 
category strategy project. ‘Dairy for Life’ 
is a framework to make people look 
differently at the dairy category. It forms 
the foundation for future innovation, 
marketing and category merchandising 
for our key brands. We will work with 
our major customers to implement the 
Dairy for Life findings and drive growth 
across the dairy category. Some ideas 
generated by Dairy for Life, such as 
cross-sector promotions and additional 
store positionings, have already been 
implemented. 
 Innovation remains key to the success 
of our brands. During the year we have 
launched several brand extensions 
including Cathedral City Spreadable, 
Clover Lighter than Light, and reduced 
sugar FRijj. Since the year end we 
have started to produce and sell Clover 
cooking oil which combines Frylight 
spray technology and the strength of the 
Clover brand.
 In the year ended 31 March 2015 
around 7% of our combined Cheese and 
whey and Spreads and butter revenue 
came from products introduced in the last 
3 years. This compares to our ongoing 
ambitious target of 10% and last year’s 
performance of 4% across the business as 
a whole and 7% for our branded business.
 To further increase our focus on 
innovation we have entered into a new 
partnership with Harper Adams University. 
Our innovation team has moved to 
Harper Adams and we are building 
a £4 million innovation centre on the 
university campus. We expect this to be 
fully operational by the end of 2015. The 
partnership will give us access to food 
and farming research that will help us 
continue to develop new products and 
ways of working.
Building from strength
We have continued to make good 
progress with projects that enhance 
the future prospects of our Cheese 
and Spreads operations, including 
consolidating butter and spreads 
production onto one site and investing 
in demineralised whey and galacto-
oligosaccharide, a lactose based prebiotic.
 We are nearing completion of the 
project to make demineralised whey 
powder and GOS at our Davidstow 
creamery in Cornwall. These products will 
give us access to new sales channels in 
growing global markets. Both products 
are used in the manufacture of infant 
formula for which there is growing demand 
across the world. We expect commercial 
manufacture of both products to start later 
this year. During the year we entered into 
a strategic partnership with Fonterra, the 
world’s leading dairy exporter. Fonterra will 
market and sell our products on our behalf 
and is also providing valuable technical 
and engineering support.
Cost cutting
We have again achieved our target of 
making cost savings in excess of £20 
million in the year.
 The consolidation of our spreads and 
packet butter manufacturing into one site 
at Kirkby, Merseyside and the closure of 
Crudgington will give us a lower fixed cost 
base that will benefit future years.
 We continue to work with non-milk 
suppliers to drive efficiencies and lower 
our purchase costs. During the year 
we have increased our use of lighter weight 
polybottles; reduced packaging costs and 
made our distribution network more efficient.
 Cost reduction is essential in our 
residential milk delivery business, where 
CHIeF exe CUTIve’ S Rev IeW COn TIn UeD
Brand Market Dairy Crest 
sales growth*
Market statistics**
      Brand growth Market growth
 
Cheese
+5% +2%
unchanged
  Spreads
-8% -8% -8%
 
Butter
-9% -7%
unchanged
 
Ready to drink 
flavoured milk
+7%
unchanged
+4%
Total
 
unchanged
 
* Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31 March 2015 v 12 months to 31 March 2014 ** IRI data 52 weeks to 28 March 2015 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 13
Strategic report
sales fell by 11% compared to the year 
ended 31 March 2014. We have continued 
with our programme of depot closures. 
In addition we announced that we would 
further rationalise our Dairies operations 
and consult with employees regarding 
the closure of our glass bottling dairy in 
Hanworth, West London and our specialist 
cream potting facility in Chard, Somerset. 
We anticipate that Chard will close later in 
2015 and Hanworth in 2016. 
 Completion of the sale of our Dairies 
operations will significantly reduce the 
complexity of the business and will allow 
us to streamline our future overhead 
structure and systems.
Financial performance
The financial performance of the business 
as a whole starkly demonstrates the 
differing financial performances of 
the operations we are retaining and 
those we are selling. Taken together 
our Cheese and whey and Spreads 
and butter businesses (which we will 
retain) delivered marginally higher sales 
compared to the year ended 31 March 
2014 and significantly higher product 
group profits, up by 19% to £66.9 million. 
However excluding property profits our 
Dairies business (which we are selling) 
recorded a product group loss of £15.8 
million against a profit of £0.6 million in 
the previous year. Property profits were 
broadly in line with last year at £17.6 million 
(2014: £18.2 million). 
 For the business as a whole, adjusted 
group profit before tax decreased by 
7% to £60.6 million (2014: £65.3 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
also decreased by 7% to 38.0 pence 
(2014: 40.8 pence). Pre-tax exceptional 
charges in the year were £36.3 million 
(2014: £10.4 million). These mainly related 
to the closure and future closure of 
manufacturing sites. Reported profit before 
tax, which reflects these exceptional 
charges, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension interest, was 
£22.1 million (2014: £54.2 million). 
 Group net debt at 31 March 2015 
was £199 million up from £142 million at 
31 March 2014, as we invested a high 
level of capital expenditure in the whey 
and galacto-oligosaccharide project at 
Davidstow and the completion of the Kirkby 
spreads and butter manufacturing facility.
Future prospects
Completion of the sale of our Dairies 
operations will result in Dairy Crest 
operating from five well-invested 
manufacturing sites and be a much 
simpler, more focused, predominantly 
branded business. It will also have 
exposure to the growing infant formula 
category and emerging markets.
 Looking ahead, Dairy Crest is well 
positioned for sustainable, profitable 
growth. Over the coming year as a 
whole we expect results to benefit from 
the continued growth of Cathedral City, 
ongoing cost savings and the completion 
of our project at Davidstow where we 
will add value to our whey stream by 
producing ingredients for infant formula. 
This growth will be second half weighted.
 We expect that our net debt, which 
at the year end remains within our target 
range, will fall once we have completed 
our major investment projects. The 
receipt of the proceeds from the sale of 
our Dairies operations will accelerate this 
reduction.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
20 May 2015 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
We manage risk to help us achieve 
our strategic objectives and protect 
our reputation. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the 
appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation 
of mitigating activities. 
 Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management 
and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of mechanisms 
put in place to mitigate risks. This process explicitly recognises 
the relationship between Internal Audit and Risk Management. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate 
and appropriate. Further details are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 35 to 44.
 The Group Risk Register is compiled in two stages. Central, 
demand and supply risks are identified separately by members of 
the Management Board and senior managers and consolidated 
into an initial register that is then reviewed and refined by the 
Management Board as a whole to create the Group Risk Register. 
The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register annually when 
the budget is set. The Company Secretary and General Counsel is 
responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Group 
Risk Register identified during the intervening periods.
 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set 
out in the table below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive 
analysis of all risks facing the Group.
Threats to objectives identified
Performance monitored
Business objectives set or reviewed
Existing controls assessed
Threats quantified
Improvements implemented
Risk register
Group board
Management board
Commercial risks
Reduced profitability
Risk area and potential impact
We operate in extremely competitive markets. If we fail to compete effectively 
or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising 
selling prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
Mitigating controls
We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are 
able to invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
No one customer accounts for more than 15% of total revenues and we 
continually strive to widen our customer base. Despite challenging trading 
conditions we continue to invest in marketing our key brands. Our innovation 
programme continues to generate new products that reinforce our appeal 
to customers. We recognise the importance of strong customer relationships 
and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and developing 
these. They are also involved in major customer negotiations. We conduct 
customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously 
monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers and 
consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues. 
Our commitment to corporate responsibility is an important part of our overall 
proposition to some customers. 
Reduced demand from consumers 
Risk area and potential impact
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, 
ethical, or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
Mitigating controls
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor 
consumer trends. We continue to promote the health benefits provided 
by dairy products and develop healthier products. We also continue to 
maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development 
pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more 
environmentally-friendly packaging, and healthier variants of our key brands. 
We have a direct involvement with government to understand and influence 
future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
Input cost volatility
Risk area and potential impact
Volatile milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and 
packaging) could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other 
cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
Milk prices could remain volatile as European milk production quotas have 
been abolished from April 2015.
Mitigating controls
This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has 
established a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk 
commodity prices as appropriate. The risks associated with purchasing 
large volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to 
major customers. We seek to absorb short term cost movements through 
supply chain efficiencies. Our purchasing and commercial teams have clear 
lines of communication between them to ensure customers are kept aware 
of changes to our cost base and requests for price increases can be fully 
justified.
We have reviewed the effect that we believe the abolition of milk quotas will 
have on our business. We believe it is commodity cheese markets, in which 
we don’t operate, that are most likely to be affected, but we will continue to 
monitor this closely.
PRInCIPal RIsks and un CeRta Int Ies Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 15
Operational risks
Inability to source milk
Risk area and potential impact
Without milk we would not have a business. Restricted milk supply due to 
economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects 
dairy cows could restrict milk supply. This in turn could lead to lower sales 
and profits. Consumer confidence in dairy products could also be adversely 
affected.
Mitigating controls
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with 
our milk suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and 
pressures that affect both the farms and our business. The majority of our 
milk comes directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of 
between three months and one year. Our experienced milk procurement 
team understand milk production and are alert to changes in supply. We aim 
to pay a fair, market related milk price and closely monitor the milk price we 
pay to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk 
to meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating 
milk between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply does arise. We 
have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with 
DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate. These plans are 
regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board.
Failure of a key supplier
Risk area and potential impact
We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial 
penalties from customers if suppliers’ failure leaves us unable to supply. 
Failure of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our 
financial systems.
Mitigating controls
Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers’ ability to supply and puts 
in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate. 
We have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information 
technology suppliers.
Other operational risks
Risk area and potential impact
An accident, a fire, product contamination, the failure of equipment or 
systems or deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause 
injury, and/or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences. We are 
also reliant on information technology and exposed to losses in the event that 
systems fail.
Mitigating controls
Plans are maintained to respond quickly to incidents and minimise any impact 
to the Group. Our business is committed to the health and safety of all our 
employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to work 
safely. All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering resource, are 
supported by our major equipment suppliers and hold appropriate stocks of 
spare parts. They also all have fire protection systems and regular fire drills. 
Our information technology systems are regularly backed up and duplicated in 
the majority of areas. We also maintain insurance cover for property damage 
and business interruption risks.
Risk area and potential impact
Failure to maintain product quality could lead to reputational damage and loss 
of sales and profits. As we start to manufacture ingredients for infant formula 
this risk could increase.
Mitigating controls
We have well established supply chains and a close working relationship 
with our milk suppliers. We have an independent quality team, including 
experienced cheese graders. Customer and consumer complaints are 
monitored and acted upon. Our contractual relationship with Fonterra, who 
will sell the infant formula ingredients we will produce, allows us to utilise its 
experience in this field.
People risks
Disease epidemic
Risk area and potential impact
A disease epidemic such as swine flu could adversely affect the health of 
our employees and prevent them working, leaving us unable to service 
customers.
Mitigating controls
Contingency plans which include working with industry bodies are in place 
for known epidemic risks. 
Recruitment and retention 
Risk area and potential impact
We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
Mitigating controls
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits 
to ensure we can attract and retain the best people. We have a wide bonus 
scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance. Our 
Long Term Alignment Plan aligns the interest of management to shareholders 
and helps to retain key senior employees. There is a performance review 
and talent management scheme to identify and develop our own people. We 
undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship with our employees and 
their engagement, communicate with them regularly and encourage them to 
ask questions.
Financial risks
Pension scheme
Risk area and potential impact
Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our 
pension scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and 
buying insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired 
members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we 
may then have to increase our contributions. 
Mitigating controls
We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve 
the Fund’s financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business. We 
have recently reduced the scheme’s exposure to equities and other higher-
risk asset classes and aim to further do so.
Legal and compliance risks
Risk area and potential impact
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements. There 
is a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
Mitigating controls
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers. 
We have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and 
actively monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes. We 
have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that 
all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the 
UK Bribery Act.
Major project risk
Risk area and potential impact
To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational 
projects following strategic reviews. Successful execution of these projects 
is often key to delivering strategic objectives. At the same time we have 
to ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day 
delivery of products and services to our customers.
Mitigating controls
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced 
and appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these. Supervisory 
governance structures are also put in place to help successful delivery. We 
are aware that too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can 
be detrimental and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time 
with appropriate backfilling and use of third parties.
Strategic report 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
performance
March 2016 as stock made with less 
expensive milk is sold.
 Whey realisations have also fallen and 
this has contributed to lower reported 
margins in this business. In addition we 
have adjusted our aged accruals in line 
with the Grocery Supply Code of Practice.
c athedral c ity continues to grow 
market share
Total retail cheese market sales were 
unchanged over the year although 
volumes fell by 3%. Cheddar accounts for 
more than half of all retail sales. Cathedral 
City continued to grow market share, 
recording flat volumes and 5% sales 
growth. According to IRI, retail sales of 
Cathedral City exceeded £280 million. 
Sales of competing cheddar brands have 
continued to decline. Taken together the 
next three largest cheddar brands totalled 
£141 million, down over 20%.
 We continue to develop new products 
in the Cathedral City range. Products 
launched in earlier years such as 
Selections, Chedds, Spreadable Cathedral 
City and Baked Bites have all prospered. 
This year we have moved outside of 
cheddar for the first time and have selected 
Red Leicester and Double Gloucester for a 
new Selections variety pack. We have also 
extended the brand into flavoured cheeses.
 In addition to bringing exciting new 
products to the market we have continued 
to support Cathedral City with television 
and other media advertising and with an 
appropriate promotional programme. 
 Dairy Crest’s second cheese brand, 
Davidstow, has slightly strengthened its 
market share. We also continue to supply 
Marks & Spencer and Waitrose with 
premium own label cheddar.
 During the year we have carried 
out a comprehensive category strategy 
project, ‘Dairy for Life’, which will form the 
foundation for future innovation, marketing 
and category merchandising for both of 
our cheese brands. On the back of this, 
in addition to the Cathedral City range 
developments referred to above, we have 
worked with customers to cross-promote 
Cathedral City and jacket potatoes and 
to create a video of ‘how to make a great 
cheese sauce’ with Cathedral City.
Growth based on top quality cheese 
from a highly efficient supply chain
The investment we have made in recent 
times in our cheese business has created 
a highly efficient supply chain that 
produces top quality products.
making ingredients for infant formula 
will provide additional growth
We are investing a total of £65 million at 
our Davidstow creamery in Cornwall to 
make demineralised whey powder and 
galacto-oligosaccharide, a lactose based 
prebiotic. Both products are used in the 
manufacture of infant formula for which 
there is growing demand across the world. 
We expect commercial manufacture of 
both products to start later this year. 
 During the year we entered into a 
strategic partnership with Fonterra, the 
world’s leading dairy exporter. Fonterra will 
market and sell our products on our behalf 
and is also providing valuable technical 
and engineering support.
a business with great potential
Our Cheese and whey business has well-
invested facilities, and strong brands with 
enviable market positions. It remains well 
placed to generate attractive growth.
Dairy c rest produces and markets 
c athedral c ity, the UK’s leading 
cheese brand, as well as the 
premium Davidstow cheddar brand. 
milk from around 400 farmers in 
c ornwall and Devon is made into 
cheddar cheese at our Davidstow 
creamery in c ornwall. The cheese 
is then matured for an average of 11 
months at our purpose built n uneaton 
facility before being cut, packed and 
distributed to customers. We have 
two cheese packing operations: a 
highly automated facility at n uneaton, 
Warwickshire, and a plant at f rome, 
Somerset capable of producing more 
complicated packs for innovative 
products such as c athedral c ity 
c hedds and Selections.
 Whey is produced as a by-product 
of cheese making. This is currently 
dried and sold to food manufacturers. 
However we are developing a 
new facility at Davidstow that will 
manufacture demineralised whey 
powder and galacto-oligosaccharide, 
a lactose based prebiotic
 Reported revenue for the year ended 
31 March 2015 grew by 4% to £274.4 
million. However product group profits fell 
back by 16% to £33.1 million and margin 
declined to 12.1% (2014: 14.9%). 
 As is usual in this business, falling milk 
prices have led to a short-term pressure 
on margins. The maturation process 
means that we sell cheese made with milk 
purchased around 11 months before the 
sale takes place. Falling sales realisations 
have now led to lower milk prices but 
there is a time lag before this is reflected 
in the costs of stock that is being sold. 
We expect this margin squeeze to reverse 
in the second half of the year ending 31 
Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Other 89%
Share of the total retail
cheese market by value
11%
Cathedral
      City
£ million 2014/15 2013/14
r evenue 274.4 264.6
product group profit* 33.1 39.3
margin 12.1% 14.9%
* Before exceptional items and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles
c heese & whey Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 17
Strategic report
16th
biggest grocery 
brand in Britain 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
PeRFORMAn Ce COn TInue D Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 19
Strategic report
£ million 2014/15 2013/14
r evenue 170.0 177.4
product group profit* 33.8 16.8
margin 19.9% 9.5%
* Before exceptional items and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles
Dairy Crest
Unilever 25%
Arla 35%
 Retailer 
 own 
 label 
17%    
Other 7%
Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Share of retail butter and 
spreads market by value
16%
We make butter at our Severnside 
dairy in Gloucestershire and pack 
butter and make spreads in Kirkby, 
merseyside. We have two key brands, 
c lover (a dairy spread) and c ountry 
Life (spreadable and block butter). 
We also produce f rylight one calorie 
cooking spray in erith, Kent, and 
have several secondary brands in the 
spreads category.
 Reported revenue for the year ended 
31 March 2015 fell by 4% to £170.0 million. 
However profits from the Spreads and 
butters product group increased sharply 
by 101% to £33.8 million, resulting in a 
margin of 19.9% (2014: profit £16.8 million, 
margin 9.5%). Lower raw material prices 
and reduced overheads following the 
consolidation of packing onto one site both 
contributed to the improved performance. 
In addition we have adjusted our aged 
accruals in line with the Grocery Supply 
Code of Practice.
market decline slows – butter in growth
The butter and spreads market continued 
to decline during the year. However the 
pace of decline fell from that recorded in 
the year ended 31 March 2014. Across 
the category as a whole, both market 
volumes and values fell by 4%. Within the 
overall category, butter sales grew volume 
by 2% with unchanged values, driven 
by supermarket own label butter sales 
growth, whereas spreads volumes and 
values both fell by around 8%. 
 Clover performed in line with the 
spreads market and Country Life 
Spreadable, which now accounts for 
nearly 60% of total Country Life sales, 
grew sales by 2% and outperformed 
the butter market. However Country Life 
block butter sales fell as a result of lower 
promotional activity.
 We continue to innovate and support 
our brands. Clover was awarded Which 
magazine’s ‘Best Buy’ in the spreads 
category (Source: Which February 2015) 
and Clover Lighter than Light is firmly 
established as a lower fat alternative. 
 Our comprehensive category 
strategy project, ‘Dairy for Life’, will form 
the foundation for future innovation, 
marketing and category merchandising 
for both Clover and Country Life. On 
the back of this project we have worked 
with one customer to install freestanding 
refrigerators for butters and spreads next 
to their instore bakeries and with another 
on a ‘cupcake challenge’. 
 Frylight one calorie cooking spray, 
a brand we purchased in 2011, has 
performed strongly with sales up 22% 
compared to last year. This brand has 
responded well to increased marketing 
support and has the potential to grow 
further. In future we expect to report it as 
one of our key spreads and butter brands 
alongside Clover and Country Life butter.
Driving efficiency, generating cash
With all our packet butter and spreads 
manufacturing now on one site, we expect 
to be able to drive efficiencies in this 
business and lower our manufacturing 
costs further. We expect to use some of 
the manufacturing savings to increase our 
marketing expenditure to grow and protect 
our share of this high-margin category. 
We would also expect to see this business 
improve its cash generation in future years 
as capital expenditure falls back to more 
normal levels.
Spreads & butters
101 %
profit increase from the 
Spreads and butters 
product group 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Sale of Dairies operations
On 6 November 2014 Dairy Crest agreed 
to sell its Dairies operations to Müller for 
£80 million in cash on completion. The 
sale has been approved by shareholders 
but remains subject to the approval of the 
Competition and Markets Authority.
A difficult year for the whole UK 
dairy sector
A global surplus of milk and high 
production in the UK has led to a steep 
fall in realisations of milk and other dairy 
commodities. Although we and others 
in the UK dairy sector have reduced the 
price we pay dairy farmers for their milk, 
the profitability of our Dairies operations 
has fallen significantly and excluding 
property profits we recorded a trading loss 
in the year.
Property profits remain strong
As residential and middle ground sales 
reduce we close and sell distribution 
depots. Property selling prices have 
remained high and profits from selling 
properties included in the Dairies 
product group were £17.6 million (2014: 
£18.2 million).
Growing FRijj sales
FRijj is the leading brand in the ready to 
drink flavoured milk market. This market 
grew by 4% in the year ended 31 March 
2015 and, buoyed by growth from sales to 
the food service and convenience sectors, 
FRijj sales increased by 7%. During the 
year we redesigned the packaging and 
introduced a reduced sugar variant.
Continued cost savings
We have continued to reduce costs in 
this business. Key initiatives have been 
a wider use of lighter weight polybottles, 
distribution savings and an ongoing 
programme of depot closures to reflect 
declining residential demand. Overall 
residential sales fell by 11% compared to 
the year ended 31 March 2014. 
 In addition we announced that we 
would further rationalise our Dairies 
operations and consult with employees 
regarding the closure of our glass bottling 
dairy in Hanworth, West London and our 
specialist cream potting facility in Chard, 
Somerset. We anticipate that Chard will 
close later in 2015 and Hanworth in 2016. 
PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD
Dairy Crest processes and delivers 
fresh conventional, organic and 
flavoured milk to major retailers, 
‘middle ground’ customers (such as 
smaller retailers, coffee shops and 
hospitals) and residential customers. 
The Dairies product group includes 
revenues and profits from these 
operations. It also includes revenues 
and profits from one of our four key 
brands, FRijj, the country’s leading 
ready to drink flavoured milk brand as 
well as cream and milk powders.
 We operate three modern dairies at 
Severnside, Chadwell Heath and Foston 
where we pack milk into polybottles. 
We also have a glass bottling dairy at 
Hanworth and a specialist cream potting 
facility at Chard. In addition we have 
around 64 operational depots from which 
we deliver milk to residential and certain 
middle ground customers. Finally we also 
run an ingredients operation that helps 
balance seasonal milk supplies by drying 
surplus milk and selling skimmed milk 
powder. We aim to minimize throughput 
in this business to lessen our exposure to 
commodity markets.
 The raw milk that we purchase from 
farms contains more cream than the milk 
that we sell to customers. We use some of 
the surplus generated during the bottling 
process to make bulk butter which is 
transferred to our Spreads and butters 
business at market prices. The balance of 
surplus cream is sold by our ingredients 
operation either as bulk butter or cream.
 Reported revenue fell by 7% to £881.6 
million (2014: £944.8 million). Both sales 
volumes and realisations were lower than 
last year. Dairies product group profits fell 
to £1.8 million from £18.8 million. Profits 
from selling surplus properties included 
in the Dairies product group were £17.6 
million (2014: £18.2 million). In addition we 
have adjusted our aged accruals in line 
with the Grocery Supply Code of Practice.
£ million 2014/15 2013/14
Revenue 881.6 944.8
Product group profit* 1.8 18.8
Margin 0.2% 2.0%
* Before exceptional items and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles
Dairies
7 % 
growth in  
FRijj sales Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 21
Strategic report 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
understanding of how Dairy Crest and 
the services we offer are perceived by 
our farmers. This unique survey was well 
received with the results highlighting the 
opportunities for greater segmentation 
within our core communication activity – 
both for content and method of delivery. 
The feedback identified both what we 
do well as a business and where there is 
scope for us to improve. Our operational 
performance scored very highly with the 
consistent achievement of high service 
levels being recognised as a key benefit. 
 Electronic communication is a focus as 
we develop ‘Farm Connect’, our interactive 
farmer website. This provides our farmers 
with key management information about 
their milk supply together with news about 
Dairy Crest and the dairy sector.
 The independent White Gold farm 
advisory service, which is fully funded 
by Dairy Crest, has been expanded 
to include a series of new initiatives 
to benefit our farmers. These include 
‘MilkWell’ to improve herd health and 
welfare through better data recording, 
‘WaterWell’ to analyse water consumption 
and ‘Safe&Well’ to provide guidance on 
health and safety for key farm tasks. The 
Safe&Well initiative encompasses routine 
health checks for our farmers and was 
launched during our summer agricultural 
shows programme, where we offered 
free ‘on the spot’ health assessments to 
our farmers. 
Milk supply contracts
Our service package supports our 
core offer of a fair and competitive milk 
price and range of contract options. We 
continue to work closely with DCD to 
explore opportunities for new contract 
options that meet the requirements of 
both our farmers and our business. Our 
innovative formula pricing mechanism 
continues to be very popular with our 
farmers with over 20% opting to have a 
proportion of their milk priced in this way. 
At the start of the year we responded to 
farmer feedback for greater simplicity with 
the launch of a new ‘Simplifed’ Formula 
contract which proved very popular.
 We continue to consider variations 
to our core contracts, looking at the 
compositional quality of milk for our 
cheese business and for larger supply 
volumes.
 In addition, we are working with DCD 
to consider the opportunity for a contract 
based on the Dairy Futures market, 
with the aim of providing farmers with 
different options to help manage future 
market volatility. 
Operational efficiency
Our contracted hauliers maintain their 
focus on improving efficiency within 
the milk collection operation whilst also 
delivering environmental improvement and 
meeting a range of service targets for our 
farmers. 
 The on-going vehicle fleet replacement 
programme will result in lighter vehicles 
with greater capacity. Exploratory work is 
also been done with new milk pumping 
equipment to reduce pollution and 
noise and to further develop automatic 
milk sampling equipment to reduce the 
opportunity for human error.
 We continue to work closely with 
our haulage and milk testing partners to 
ensure that our milk sampling and testing 
procedures are effective and robust at 
every stage of the raw milk supply chain. 
Looking ahead
We are committed to working in 
partnership with our farmers to ensure 
that together, we are best placed to take 
advantage of market opportunities. In our 
Davidstow milk field we are launching a 
new farm standards package to recognise 
the work our farmers in the South West 
are doing in preparation for the production 
of demineralised whey powder. In our 
milk fields serving the liquid market, we 
will further develop our portfolio of supply 
contracts to recognise the diverse range 
of business models so we can continue to 
offer flexibility and choice.
 We will continue our support of 
the Government’s Voluntary Code of 
Practice for milk supply contracts, having 
been the first milk processor to fully 
embrace this since the launch in 2012. 
We are supporting DCD’s work to review 
structural changes to their organisation, 
including their application to achieve DPO 
(Dairy Producer Organisation) status. This 
followed a comprehensive evaluation of 
the constitutional implications for their 
members, carried out through funding they 
secured through the Defra ‘Dairy Fund’.  
 Global volatility in dairy markets had 
a huge impact in 2014 and is expected 
to continue to be a critical factor going 
forward. We and our farmers also have 
to deal with any challenge brought about 
by the end of European milk quotas. 
By working together with DCD and our 
farmers, we can help ensure that our 
businesses are in the best place to meet 
the challenges we face and ensure we 
deliver a sustainable supply of top quality 
British milk for our customers. 
The year ended 31 March 
2015 was a year of two dramatically 
different periods. The first part of the 
year saw milk prices at record highs 
with intense competition amongst 
milk processors for milk supply. In the 
second half of the year, dairy markets 
collapsed as milk production soared 
on the back of higher prices and 
favourable weather conditions. This 
resulted in milk prices falling at an 
unprecedented scale and speed.
Milk supply
We have managed to achieve a balanced 
supply of milk, by carefully monitoring 
production levels and customer demand. 
Successful new farm recruitment activity 
during the year has been scaled back 
for the short term with our priority being 
to develop our existing milk fields. The 
comprehensive service package we offer 
to our farmers has enabled us to maintain 
our focus on quality and efficiency at a 
time when milk prices have been under 
significant pressure. This partnership 
approach delivers key benefits to our 
business and our farmers, including 
the long term sustainability of our direct 
milk supply, which is fundamental to 
our business. 
Standards and support
Our office based advisors within the Farm 
Business Centre together with our regional 
team of Farm Business Managers are the 
primary contacts for our farmers. During 
the year they have undertaken a number 
of practical farm training programmes 
to enable them to provide more 
comprehensive support and guidance. 
 Animal health and welfare remains a 
key priority as we work with our farmers 
to promote best practice and continually 
improve milk quality and production 
standards. Raising awareness of the 
challenges the dairy sector faces from 
animal disease and the eradication 
programmes that are in place, is one area 
of focus. We have worked closely with 
Dairy Crest Direct (‘DCD’), the independent 
organisation representing our farmers, to 
engage veterinary support as part of our 
communication and training programmes.
Listening to our farmers
During the summer of 2014 we 
commissioned an independent research 
project ‘The Voice of the Farmer’. 
The objective was to gain a greater 
PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Milk Procurement Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 23
Our future success 
depends on our ability 
to meet a range of 
pressing environmental 
and social needs – 
that is why Corporate 
Responsibility (CR) is 
so important to us. 
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Report
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 our 
greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions are quantified below.
Green House Gas Emissions for 1 April 2014 
to 31 March 2015
  2014/15 2013/14 
Scope 1 89,377 87,256 Tonnes CO
2
e
Scope 2 77,612 74,646 Tonnes CO
2
e
Total Scope 1 
and 2
166,989 161,902 Tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity ratio 78.58 74.71
kg CO
2
e per tonne 
of milk intake
Emissions from 
biomass fuel
22,192 27,619 Tonnes CO
2
e
We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard to calculate emissions from the combustion of fuels (Scope 1) 
and from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling (Scope 2). Carbon 
emission factors are used to convert each activity that gives rise to GHG 
emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2
e) using the latest UK 
Government conversion factors for Company Reporting. 
 The GHG data reported relates to emissions from activities in the 
operational control of Dairy Crest Group plc from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 
2015 consistent with our financial reporting period.
Scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil fuels used 
at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel used in the transport 
and distribution of intermediate and finished products. Road fuel used 
in company cars operated by Dairy Crest for business travel is also 
included. Minor losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment have been 
converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are included for 
completeness.
Scope 2 emissions data includes material sources of purchased electricity 
used at manufacturing sites, depots and offices. 
 We employ a ‘per tonne of milk intake’ denominator as the most 
effective measure of relative performance. This measure is routinely 
employed for our manufacturing operations and is employed here as an 
intensity measure for our business as a whole.
 Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from biologically 
sequestered carbon are reported separate to the other Scopes. These 
comprise emissions from combustion of biomass fuel at our creamery in 
Davidstow that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions from fossil fuels. 
Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not included in the 
emissions intensity ratio reported above. 
 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased in 2014/15 by 3% (with 
an associated 5% increase in intensity ratio) compared to the previous 
year. Although the emissions reductions activities described elsewhere in 
this report (page 24) delivered significant reductions in relative energy used 
in both manufacturing operations and transport, a number of key factors 
impacted emissions performance:
(i) Reduced output from biomass boilers at Davidstow mid-year 
necessitating increased use of fossil fuel. This contributed 1% increase 
in Scope 1 emissions and is evident in the reduction in emissions from 
biomass. Steam output from the biomass boilers returned to normal high 
levels by the end of 2014/15.
(ii) Increased operation of Severnside dryer to produce milk powder 
influenced by commercial drivers in the milk sector. This resulted in 
increased use of natural gas at Severnside leading to 2% increase in 
Scope 1 emissions.
(iii) 11% increase in the UK Government’s Carbon Emission Factor for 
electricity supplied from the public grid. This results in a 4% increase in 
Scope 2 emissions despite a 6% reduction in imported electricity.
Corporate Responsibility
Strategic report
“ I congratulate Dairy Crest 
for achieving its ranking 
and look forward to 
working together to create 
a fairer society and a more 
sustainable future” 
Stephen Howard,
Chief Executive, BITC
We use Business in the Community’s 
CR Index to integrate responsible 
business practice into our mainstream 
business operations. It provides a 
robust framework to systematically 
measure and manage our progress 
and allows us to compare the results 
we are achieving with those of other 
responsible businesses.
 We are delighted that Dairy 
Crest has again come out top in the 
Business in the Community (‘BITC’) 
benchmark. In addition we are only 
one of a handful of participants to 
achieve a top rated 5 star score, up 
from 4½ last year. During the year we 
increased our focus on community 
initiatives such as engaging with 
young people as well as developing a 
programme to help improve safety on 
farm for our supplying farmers.
 More information on recent 
awards can be found in our CR online 
report. This includes the progress 
the business has made against its 
sustainability pledges.
http://ourcommitments.dairycrest.co.uk
Winner
IGD President’s 
2014 Cup
FT Finalist
FT Corporate 
Responsibility 
Company of 
the Year 2014 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
As a leading dairy 
manufacturer and processor 
we are aware of global 
trends and we are 
determined to play an active 
role in tackling climate 
change, reducing waste and 
looking after our natural 
resources.
Climate change
Dairy Crest is committed to reducing and 
controlling greenhouse gas emissions 
associated with our direct operations and 
our wider supply chain.
 All of our manufacturing sites use 
assessment and monitoring tools to 
identify energy reduction projects.
 In 2014/15, we delivered over 50 
projects to reduce electricity and energy 
use, including installing digital controls 
on the boilers at Kirkby and investing in 
high quality and efﬁcient compressed air 
at Severnside. These two projects will 
reduce CO
2
 emissions by over 800 tonnes 
per year.
 Against our target of reducing 
carbon emissions from energy used in 
manufacturing by 30% by 2020 against 
2007 levels we have achieved a 16% 
reduction.
 To push ourselves further, this year we 
committed to increase the proportion of 
renewable energy used in manufacturing 
to more than 20% by 2020.
 By looking at our transport network, 
we are on course to reduce its carbon 
intensity by 10% by 2020 vs 2013/14 levels. 
We have achieved approximately a 7% 
reduction since 2007. We have reduced the 
distance driven by our primary vehicles by 
approximately 150,000 miles, saving over 
1,200 tonnes per year of CO
2
 emissions.
 We work with our dairy farmers to 
assess their carbon footprint using a 
Carbon Trust certified emissions tool. During 
2014/15, the proportion of milk supplied from 
farms using this tool increased to 27%. We 
want 50% of our farmers to have completed 
this by the end of 2016. 
 Each year we provide a voluntary 
report via CDP (formerly the Carbon 
Disclosure Project) describing our 
greenhouse gas emissions management 
and performance. In 2014 we achieved our 
highest ever score. 
Waste
We aim to reduce waste at every point 
in our supply chain. Where waste is 
unavoidable, we always look for ways 
of diverting it from landﬁll for beneﬁcial 
recovery or reuse. 
 Our aim is for zero waste to go to landfill 
by 2015. By the year end we diverted 92% 
of operational waste from landfill and we are 
focusing on key residual waste streams to 
achieve our target of 100%.
 We also consider materials used in 
our packaging. This year we improved 
the design of our plastic milk bottles so 
they are now on average 13% lighter. In 
2014/15 we reduced our total packaging 
footprint by 9% (a total reduction of 20% 
since 2010).
 In 2014/15 we also helped lead the 
IGD’s collaborative ‘Working on Waste’ 
household food waste campaign. 
Water
Parts of the UK have less water available 
per person than some southern European 
countries. We therefore need to look to 
make best use of the water available to us 
as well as reducing the amount we use.
 In 2014, we commenced a major 
project to reduce freshwater abstraction 
at Severnside, the largest user of water 
across our manufacturing network. 
Investment will enable recovery of over 
500 million litres of processed water per 
year. We are employing similar technology 
at Davidstow.
 Dairy Crest is on track to meet our 
target of reducing water usage by 20% 
against a 2007/8 baseline by the end of 
2015. We have increased our target to a 
30% reduction by 2020.
 We are promoting water stewardship 
with our dairy farmer suppliers through 
‘WaterWell’, our innovative on-farm water 
use auditing programme.
PERFORMANCE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Environment 
16%
since
2007 
We have cut our 
CO
2
e emissions by 
    92%
landﬁll avoidance 
8%
 sent to landﬁll
 0%
 our aim
Dairy Crest 
is reducing 
water usage by 
20%
since 2007/8
We have
increased
our target to
30%
by 2020 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 25
Strategic report
Healthier choices
Dairy Crest is proud to make healthy and 
nutritious products. We have continued 
to invest in our healthier ranges, driving 
sales through promotions, advertising and 
innovation. Consumer IRI data shows that 
the lower fat and added value variants 
of our brands achieved a collective retail 
sales value of £58 million in 2014/15, a 
slight decline from £61.3 million in 2013/14. 
 Cathedral City l ighter, continues 
to lead the lower fat branded Cheddar 
market, recording a retail sales value of 
£32.1 million, bigger than the next three 
rival brands put together. 
 Our lower fat spreads – Clover l ighter, 
Clover l ighter than l ight, Utterly Butterly 
l ightly, Country l ife l ighter and our Clover 
Additions range – have a collective retail 
sales value of £25.6 million. 
 Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, 
enjoyed another impressive year with sales 
growth of over 20%. Today the brand has 
a retail sales value of about £22 million. 
 A real highlight, in February 2015 we 
launched a new range of FRijj milkshakes 
made with 40% less sugar. The range 
is available in two flavours, Choc-a-
Chocolate and Seriously Strawberry, 
in 471ml bottles. Each bottle sports a 
distinctive, refreshed blue FRijj logo.
 The launch demonstrates our 
commitment to the Department of Health’s 
Responsibility Deal. 
Milk Race
To highlight the health-giving properties of 
milk and strengthen the dairy sector’s links 
with the sporting world, this year, through 
Dairy UK, we once again sponsored the 
Milk Race, held in n ottingham on 25th 
May 2014. 
Innovation
Work started on our £4 million dedicated 
Food Innovation Centre on the Harper 
Adams University campus. The 
partnership with Harper Adams University 
provides a link into leading agriculture and 
food research and will help us to continue 
to develop healthy products.
We are committed to 
creating healthy, tasty 
enjoyable products, making 
it easier for consumers to 
choose healthier foods.
Marketplace 
Ethical supply
In 2013 we updated our comprehensive 
ethical supply policy. The policy (which can 
be found at www.dairycrest.co.uk) extends 
our vision and values across a diverse and 
extensive supplier base. 
 Dairy Crest aims to exceed best 
practice around quality, animal welfare, 
traceability, allergies and product recalls. 
Through our team of Direct Supply 
Managers and the White Gold 
accreditation service, we work with 
farmers to ensure animal welfare is of the 
highest standard possible and the milk we 
buy is of an exceptionally high quality. 
 We can trace milk and raw materials 
from farms and suppliers through 
to finished product and within our 
manufacturing plants we utilise tools such 
as Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points 
(HACCP), and Quality Monitoring Plans 
(QMP) to identify hazards and put systems 
and controls in place to ensure critical 
limits are not exceeded. 
 Our quality management systems are 
regularly reviewed and audited by our 
own technical teams and by third parties 
to ensure they comply with industry 
standards. In addition to an internally 
audited programme, each manufacturing 
site is accredited to the British Retail 
Consortium Standard and by an 
independent auditing body. 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
09/10 10/1 1 12/13 13/14 14/15 1 1/12
09/10 10/1 1 12/13 13/14 14/15 1 1/12
Number of accidents reportable to 
the HSE incl > 3 day lost time accidents 
Progress against 3-year strategy
147
123
77 76
49
Days lost 
4,122
2,984
1,999
1,630
1,248 1,209
38
PERFORMAn CE | CORPORATE RESPOn SIBIl ITY COn TIn UED
At Dairy Crest we are 
committed to ensuring that 
the safety of all of our 
employees, franchisees, 
contractors and other 
people affected by our 
activities is an integral part 
of managing our business. 
Safety first
We believe such a strong, proactive 
commitment, which goes beyond 
legislative requirements, contributes to 
our business performance by reducing 
the risk of injuries and drives continuous 
improvement and engagement.
 We have made excellent progress 
against our zero tolerance of unsafe 
working practices and by the end of 
March 2015 we had reduced our Accident 
Incident Rate, including Riddors and over 
three day lost time accidents, to 588 from 
the 1,027 base line set in 2013. This 43% 
reduction means we are well on the way to 
achieving our challenging target of a 50% 
reduction in Accident Incident Rate by 
2018, against the 2013 baseline. Among 
the year’s highlights include Chard who 
achieved more than 1,000 days without 
a lost time accident, and our n uneaton 
Prepack operation achieved 987 days.
 Challenging the behaviour of staff 
has been key to our success, with much 
focus being placed on encouraging 
staff to engage in near miss reporting 
and behavioural conversations so that 
we can continue to make workplaces 
safer. Against our target of having a 
100:1 ratio of near miss and behavioural 
conversations versus all types of accidents 
by 2018, we achieved a ratio of 127:1 by 
the end of March 2015.
 Some key activities have included a 
£250 prize draw we hold each quarter for 
drivers in our secondary and residential 
operations that have not had an ‘at fault’ 
collision. At all locations we promote 
our ‘Stop, Think, Assess, Review’ 
(STAR) principles to help our staff stay 
accident free. Finally, aware that driving 
in winter weather can potentially be more 
hazardous, this year we issued all of our 
professional drivers with a ‘Winter Driving 
Guide’. 
Wellbeing at work
Dairy Crest is proud to take a proactive 
approach to looking after employees’ 
health, which we believe results in a 
happier, more engaged and productive 
workforce. Through our in-house 
occupational health team we provide all 
staff with the opportunity of having a free 
wellbeing check.
 Since introducing this free service, and 
including the mandatory health checks for 
staff performing specific roles, by the end 
of March 2015 we had carried out 6,422 
health related checks across the business.
Farm Health & Safety programme 
In 2014, we expanded this service to our 
dairy farmers. Our occupational health 
team provided a free health check to 219 
farmers at local shows, including the Royal 
Cornwall Show, and our regular farmer 
meetings.
Wellbeing days
Since March 2014, we have been running 
special wellbeing days across all of 
our manufacturing sites and depots, 
addressing heart health, mental health, 
sleep and healthy eating. Significantly 
these four topics were chosen after our 
occupational health advisors analysed the 
results of the staff health screenings they 
conducted in 2013. 
 As a result of our proactive approach 
to employee wellbeing we were delighted 
to have been shortlisted for the 2014 Bupa 
Workwell Engagement and Wellbeing 
Award and were named as Waitrose’s 
overall ‘Treating People Fairly’ supplier of 
the year.
Workplace
We offer
all staff a
free health
check
“ I took one of the health 
assessments at the Royal 
Cornwall Show and I think this 
campaign to encourage farmers 
to think about their health and 
also the safety of their holdings is 
really welcome.” 
George Eustice MP, Farming Minister 
has a free health MOT at the Royal 
Cornwall Show Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 27
Powered by Dairy Crest
Our community programme 
supports four key areas; 
looking after the 
countryside, promoting 
healthy living, supporting 
education and employability 
and engaging with local 
communities. 
Looking after the countryside
In 2014 we were delighted to announce 
the Prince’s Countryside Fund as our staff 
charity partner, building on the relationship 
the charity already has with our Country 
Life and Davidstow brands. The charity, 
set up by HRH The Prince of Wales in 2010, 
aspires to a healthy, economically vibrant 
countryside – an aspiration supported by 
Dairy Crest’s vision and values. 
 In addition to contributing £100,000 
to the Fund, staff raised money 
through activities including cycling and 
baking challenges. In March 2015 we 
co-sponsored a racing day at Ascot. 
 Through the Fund, we support 
the Prince’s Dairy Initiative, offering 
tailored support to vulnerable small and 
medium sized dairy farms. As part of 
the programme non-aligned farmers 
participate in a series of practical 
workshops delivered locally by dairy sector 
experts. 216 farmers have enrolled on the 
programme since 2012 and all are still in 
business. An independently conducted 
evaluation showed that the majority feel 
more conﬁdent about their future in the 
dairy sector as a result of participating.
 We are also long term supporters of 
‘Open Farm Sunday’. On 8 June 2014, 
over 300 farms opened their gates to the 
public to demonstrate food production 
methods. 
Promoting healthy living
Dairy Crest always promotes healthy 
living. Through Meals on Wheels, staff 
voluntarily deliver healthy, fresh food to 
the most vulnerable in our communities. 
During winter 2014, we also donated over 
8,500 litres of milk and enough Frylight 
to make over 30,000 meals to Crisis, the 
homeless charity. 
Supporting education and 
employability 
We want to encourage young people 
into the food and manufacturing sector. 
Through the IGD’s Feeding Britain’s Future 
programme, employees have helped 
over 140 young people ﬁnd employment 
since 2013. In 2014, we hosted local 
unemployed youngsters at Davidstow 
to help with CV-writing skills. For the 
ﬁrst time, 6 youngsters then completed 
two weeks’ work experience at the site. 
Every candidate had the opportunity to 
gain a professional food hygiene and 
preparation certiﬁcate. 
 We worked with M&S to deliver 
their youth unemployment programme, 
Movement to Work. Dairy Crest staff 
pledged to offer 80 young people 80 hours 
of work experience by June 2015. By April 
2015 91 placements had been offered. 
 Dairy Crest supports community 
educational programmes, including 
food science placements at Reading 
and Nottingham Universities. We also 
support Festomane, a manufacturing and 
engineering festival in Gloucestershire. 
This year we ran a competition for schools 
to create a new ﬂavour FRijj milkshake as 
well as a ‘career day’ at a local dairy farm. 
 This year staff helped at schools 
careers sessions through IGD’s ‘Feeding 
Britain’s Future’ programme. By the 
end of March 2015, we had visited a 
total of 8 schools and reached over 200 
young people. 
 Dairy Crest has also signed up to 
the ‘females in factories’ ambassador 
campaign by appointing a female champion 
to visit secondary schools and talk about 
manufacturing as a career option. 
Local community programme
This year staff have supported over 124 
local causes through volunteering, product 
donations and ﬁnancial donations. 
Strategic report
Community
£100,000
contribution to the Prince’s Countryside Fund 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13
14
Cash generated 
from operations
(£m)
19.7
20.4
20.7
21.3
128.1
84.5
19.1
-13.8
35.3
85
123
19
49
69
21.7
Total dividends 
per share 
(pence)
Gearing
(%)
Mar 
08
Sep 
08
Mar 
09
Sep 
09
Mar 
10
Sep 
10
Mar 
11
Sep 
11
Mar 
12
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 
Net debt history Net debt (£m – left scale)
Net debt / EBITDA 
(multiples – right scale)
416
491
475
380
337
335
312
365
336
Sep 
12
Mar 
13
Sep 
13
Mar 
14
Sep 
14
Mar 
15
76
60
192
142
210
199
15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14
1,502.2
1,514.7
1,381.6
1,391.0
1,329.8
Revenue
(£m)
Adjusted earnings
per share  
(pence)
29.9
28.9
29.4
40.8
38.0
Product group
proﬁt 
(£m)
73.5
68.6
68.4
75.2
68.7
Before exceptional items 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles; 
includes associates
Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension 
interest   
Overview
Dairy Crest has continued to make 
progress in difficult trading conditions 
and 2014/15 saw an important step 
in delivering against our long term 
strategy.
In November 2014 we announced that we had agreed to sell 
our Dairies operations to Müller. The sale has been approved by 
shareholders but remains subject to the approval of the CMA. 
Completion of this sale will deliver a step-change in delivering 
our strategy of creating a value-added, streamlined business with 
reduced exposure to commoditised markets and the ability to 
deliver future growth both organically and through acquisitions.
Overall, the financial performance of the Group during the year has 
been satisfactory. The performance of the operations we expect 
to retain, namely Cheese and whey and Spreads and butter (“the 
Retained business”) has been strong with revenue and product 
group profits up 0.5% and 19.3% respectively and a fully costed 
margin of 15%. However, profits in our Dairies operations have 
reduced markedly in the year reflecting strong competition in liquid 
milk markets and sharp falls in commodity realisations. 
We have continued to invest in the businesses we are retaining. 
Our investment at our spreads site at Kirkby enabled us to close 
Crudgington during the year and the new demineralised whey and 
galacto-oligosaccharide facilities at Davidstow, which are nearing 
completion, will increase future whey returns. Having completed 
these investments, the businesses to be retained will run out of 
five well-invested, efficient processing sites. 
PeRf ORMANCe CONTINue D
Financial review Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 29
Sale of Dairies operations 
The sale of our Dairies operations to Müller remains on track and, 
subject to clearance by the CMA, is expected to complete during 
the year ending 31 March 2016. 
The sale includes the FRijj brand and bulk butter manufacture 
and the Dairies supporting overhead structure to Müller for £80 
million, payable in cash, on completion. This includes the factories 
at Foston, Chadwell Heath and Severnside. It also includes the 
Hanworth glass bottling site, where Dairy Crest has consulted with 
employees on the site’s future, and the depot distribution network.
Dairy Crest will retain full ownership of the closed dairies at Totnes 
and Fenstanton, its Chard site and a number of previously closed 
depots and will sell these in the future. 
Under the terms of the sale agreement the two companies will 
also enter into a supply agreement whereby Müller will sell bulk 
butter to Dairy Crest for ﬁve years. In addition Dairy Crest will 
provide certain transitional IT services to Müller.
Dairy Crest will continue to be responsible for the deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension obligations in relation to the closed Dairy Crest Group 
Pension Fund.
Any consideration payable by Müller is subject to upward or 
downward adjustments for variances from agreed levels of 
working capital, capital expenditure and the proﬁtability of Dairy 
Crest’s Dairies operations and will also be adjusted to reﬂect 
proﬁts made on the sale of properties included in the transaction 
that are sold by Dairy Crest before completion.
Müller has the ability not to complete their purchase of our Dairies 
operations should there be a material deterioration of more than 
£20 million in the agreed level of proﬁtability of Dairy Crest’s 
Dairies operations before completion. At this time we do not 
anticipate that there will be such a material deterioration in the 
proﬁtability of our Dairies operations before completion. Müller 
may also not complete if any of our four dairies are inoperable 
when completion is due.
The sale constitutes a Class 1 transaction for Dairy Crest pursuant 
to the Listing Rules. Shareholder approval was received on 23 
December 2014. 
Following shareholder approval for the sale, we are separating 
our Dairies operations, including the relevant IT systems, from 
the rest of the business. This creation of a stand-alone Dairies 
operation is necessary for completion of the sale but also ensures 
that supporting overhead costs are fully transferred along with the 
underlying business. Furthermore, it results in both the retained 
business and the Dairies business staying focussed on delivering 
their plans until such time as the sale completes.
Because the sale remains conditional upon approval from the 
CMA it was not, at 31 March 2015, considered to have met the 
“highly probable” criteria required under IFRS 5 in order for the 
Dairies business to be classiﬁed as held for sale. This judgement 
will be kept under review as the CMA continues its review of the 
transaction. 
We continue to provide product group analysis consistent with 
prior years to assist the users of the Financial Statements although 
the Group operated as one segment throughout 2014/15.
Product group revenue
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
£m
Change
Cheese and whey 274.4 264.6 9.8 3.7%
Spreads and butter 170.0 177.4 (7.4) (4.2%)
Other 3.8 4.2 (0.4) (9.5%)
Retained business 448.2 446.2 2.0 0.4%
Dairies 881.6 944.8 (63.2) (6.7%)
Total external revenue 1,329.8 1,391.0 (61.2) (4.4%)
Revenues from our Retained business increased marginally which 
represents a good performance in categories experiencing price 
deﬂation. In particular, Cathedral City has had another strong 
year with revenue up by 5%. Conversely, our Dairies operations 
have seen some volume declines along with signiﬁcant price 
deﬂation and overall revenue has reduced by 6.7% in the year to 
£881.6 million.
Product group profit
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
£m
Change
Cheese and whey 33.1 39.3 (6.2) (15.8%)
Spreads and butter 33.8 16.8 17.0 101.2%
Retained business 66.9 56.1 10.8 19.3%
Share of associate – 0.3 (0.3) n/a
Dairies 1.8 18.8 (17.0) (90.4%)
Total product group profit 68.7 75.2 (6.5) (8.6%)
Remove share of 
associate – (0.3) 0.3 n/a
Acquired intangible 
amortisation (0.4) (0.4) – –
Group profit on 
operations (pre-
exceptional items) 68.3 74.5 (6.2) (8.3%)
Overall Group product group proﬁt (before interest, acquired 
intangible amortisation and exceptional items) fell by 8.6% to £68.7 
million. However, product group proﬁt of the businesses we are 
retaining grew by 19.3% to £66.9 million. 
Cheese and whey proﬁts reduced somewhat after a very strong 
year ended 31 March 2014 as the cost of sales reﬂected milk 
cost increases in that year and whey realisations softened in the 
second half of the year ended 31 March 2015. Lower milk input 
costs during the year ended 31 March 2015 have resulted in the 
cost of cheese in stock falling. However, due to the maturity proﬁle 
of cheese, this will not be fully reﬂected in reduced cost of goods 
sold until the second half of the year ending 31 March 2016.
Spreads and butter proﬁts were higher following a difﬁcult 2013/14 
principally as a result of signiﬁcantly lower cream input costs. 
Overall margins in the retained businesses increased from 13% 
in 2013/14 to 15% in 2014/15. These margins are stated after 
allocating all costs including central administrative overheads of 
the Group.
Dairies proﬁts fell despite lower milk input costs, reﬂecting the 
competitive marketplace and signiﬁcantly lower dairy commodity 
realisations. Within this, proﬁts from the sale of closed depots 
were marginally lower at £17.6 million (2014: £18.2 million). The 
Dairies business stabilised somewhat in the second half of the 
year and losses (before property proﬁts) reduced from £11.9 
million in the ﬁrst half to £3.9 million in the second half. However, 
Strategic report 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Profit before tax
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
£m
Change
Total product group profit 68.7 75.2 (6.5) (8.6%)
Finance costs (8.1) (9.9) (1.8) (18.2%)
Adjusted profit before tax 60.6 65.3 (4.7) (7.2%)
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (0.4) (0.4) –  
Exceptional items (36.3) (10.4) (25.9) 
Other finance expense – 
pensions (1.8) (0.3) (1.5) 
Reported profit before tax 22.1 54.2 (32.1) (59.2%)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax (before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) decreased by 7% to £60.6 
million. This is managements’ key Group proﬁt measure. Reported 
proﬁt before tax of £22.1 million represents a £32.1 million 
decrease from 2014 predominantly due to the higher level of 
exceptional items incurred in 2015.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations fell slightly 
to 14.0% (2014: 14.6%). The effective tax rate continues to be 
below the headline rate of UK corporation tax due to property 
proﬁts on which tax charges are offset by brought forward capital 
losses or roll-over relief.
Group profit for the year
The reported Group proﬁt for the year was £22.1 million (2014: 
£54.2 million).
Earnings per share
The Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations fell by 6.9% to 38.0 pence (2014: 40.8 pence). Basic 
earnings per share from continuing operations, which includes 
the impact of exceptional items, pension interest expense and 
the amortisation of acquired intangibles, amounted to 15.0 pence 
(2014: 35.8 pence).
Dividends
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy and have 
continued to deliver against that policy by increasing our proposed 
dividend. The proposed ﬁnal dividend of 15.7 pence per share 
represents an increase of 0.3 pence per share – a 1.9% increase. 
Together with the interim dividend of 6.0 pence per share (2014: 
5.9 pence per share) the total proposed dividend is 21.7 pence per 
share (2014: 21.3 pence per share). The ﬁnal dividend will be paid 
on 6 August 2015 to shareholders on the register on 3 July 2015.
Dividend cover of 1.8 times is within the target range of 1.5 to 2.5 
times (2014: 1.9 times).
Pensions
The latest full actuarial valuation of the closed deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension scheme was performed at 31 March 2013 and resulted in 
an actuarial deﬁcit of £105 million taking into account the one-off 
contribution of £40 million we made to the scheme in April 2013.
the dairy sector remains challenging and contract renewals and 
continued weak commodity returns will continue to put pressure 
on our Dairies operations in 2015. Although we retained our 
contract to supply Morrisons for a further three years following a 
competitive tender, the volumes we expect Morrisons to purchase 
have reduced by around one third from March 2015.
Exceptional items
Pre–tax exceptional charges in the year totalled £36.3 million 
(2014: £10.4 million). Cash exceptional operating costs reduced to 
£19.8 million (2014: £20.8 million).
Exceptional charges of £16.7 million were associated with the ﬁnal 
consolidation of Spreads and butter production at Kirkby along 
with the installation of a bulk butter churn at Severnside and the 
creation of a new innovation centre at Harper Adams University. 
The Crudgington site was closed in December 2014 and any 
further exceptional costs associated with the completion of the 
Innovation Centre will be more than offset by future exceptional 
proﬁt from the sale of the Crudgington production site.
Exceptional costs of £3.4 million relate to the investment in 
demineralised whey and galacto-oligosaccharide. These relate 
predominantly to incremental site costs incurred as a result of the 
signiﬁcant works being undertaken, for example additional site 
shut downs. These projects remain on track for completion later 
in 2015.
In September 2014 we announced the future closures of our glass 
bottling site at Hanworth and our specialist cream potting facility 
at Chard. £11.8 million of exceptional charges have been made in 
respect of these closures of which £9.2 million are non-cash asset 
write downs and accelerated depreciation.
Further exceptional costs of £4.3 million have been charged in 
respect of the proposed sale of our Dairies operations. These 
include costs associated with the transaction, predominantly 
professional fees as well as costs relating to the separation of the 
Dairies business into a standalone entity.
Finance costs
Finance costs of £8.1 million reduced by £2 million in the year 
reﬂecting some capitalised interest on the major projects at Kirkby 
and Davidstow as well as the repayment of £27 million of loan 
notes in April 2014 that were at effective ﬁxed rates of 4.97%. 
Interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total 
product group proﬁt increased to 8.5 times (2014: 7.6 times).
Other ﬁnance expenses, which are derived by applying the 
discount rate to pension scheme assets and liabilities at the start 
of each ﬁnancial year, increased to £1.8 million (2014: £0.3 million). 
These amounts are dependent upon the pension scheme position 
at 31 March each year and are volatile, being subject to market 
ﬂuctuations. We therefore exclude this item from headline adjusted 
proﬁt before tax. 
PERFORMANCE | FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 31
During the year ended 31 March 2015 the Group paid £13 million 
cash contributions into the scheme in line with the new schedule 
of contributions agreed with the Trustee in March 2014. This level 
of contributions will continue for the year ending 31 March 2016 
before increasing to £16 million for the year ending 31 March 2017. 
During the year the focus of the Trustee and the Group has been 
to reduce the scheme’s exposure to equities in line with the 
derisking ﬂight path agreed as part of the 2013 actuarial review. 
The proportion of assets (excluding insurance) held in higher risk/ 
higher return type assets has reduced from 75% at March 2014 to 
61% at March 2015.
The reported deﬁcit under IAS 19 at 31 March 2015 was £41.4 
million a decrease of £16.3 million from March 2014. Asset 
returns have been strong during the year and have offset a further 
reduction in the discount rate used to measure liabilities. We 
continue to stick to a derisking programme that targets a self-
sufﬁcient scheme by 2019 requiring returns at that point of only 
0.5% above gilt yields.
Cash flow
Our ambition is for the business to generate strong free cash 
ﬂows in future years and we are making good progress towards 
this target. Pension contributions have reduced from levels seen 
in previous years and lower milk input costs have reduced the 
value of cheese stocks. Capital expenditure, which has been 
high for several years and peaked this year, will fall signiﬁcantly 
following the completion of the demineralised whey and galacto-
oligosaccharide projects in Davidstow in the ﬁrst half of 2015/16. 
Furthermore, the sale of our Dairies operations will reduce 
exceptional restructuring costs in future years and result in one-off 
sales proceeds.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 cash generated by operations 
was £35.3 million (2014: £13.8 million outﬂow). This includes a 
working capital increase of £12.8 million albeit there has been a 
working capital reduction of £27.8 million in the second half of the 
year. Working capital changes reﬂect lower cost cheese stocks 
offset by the timing of customer receipts and supplier payments 
at the end of the year. Cheese stock valuations should continue to 
decrease in the year ending 31 March 2016 as higher cost cheese 
is sold and replaced in stock with that made at reduced milk 
input costs. Cash generated by operations also reﬂects reduced 
payments to the pension scheme as described above and 
exceptional cash costs of £19.8 million (2014: £20.8 million).
Cash interest payments amounted to £10.5 million (2014: £14.0 
million). There were no net tax payments or receipts (2014: net 
receipt of £2.1 million).
Capital expenditure of £80.1 million (2014: £58.8 million) reﬂects 
the investments at Kirkby, Harper Adams and, in particular, 
at Davidstow, which together totalled £53.3 million as well as 
ongoing expenditure elsewhere in the business. In total capital 
expenditure was somewhat higher than we anticipated as we 
took the opportunity to accelerate investment in some other site 
infrastructure at Davidstow to avoid disruption in the future. We 
expect capital expenditure to fall below levels of depreciation once 
our investment in Davidstow is complete in summer 2015.
Strategic report
Proceeds from property disposals remain strong. In the year 
ended 31 March 2015 these totalled £21.1 million (2014: £25.1 
million).
Net debt
Net debt includes the ﬁxed Sterling equivalent of foreign currency 
loan notes subject to swaps and excludes unamortised facility 
fees.
Net debt increased from £142.2 million at 31 March 2014 to 
£198.7 million at 31 March 2015, somewhat higher than was 
anticipated due to the working capital movements and higher 
capital expenditure referred to above. However the ratio of net 
debt to EBITDA at 31 March 2015 remained within our target 
range of 1.0 to 2.0 times. Looking ahead, we expect net debt to 
fall by at least £20 million in the year ending 31 March 2016 mainly 
as a result of reduced capital expenditure.
At 31 March 2015, gearing (being the ratio of net debt to 
shareholders’ funds) was 69% (2014: 49%).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has £145 million loan notes outstanding which mature 
between 2016 and 2021 and a £170 million plus €90 million 
revolving credit facility expiring in October 2016. We expect to 
reﬁnance our revolving credit facility in 2015.
Treasury Policies
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls 
cash management and borrowings and the Group’s ﬁnancial risks. 
The main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest 
rates and foreign currency. The Group only uses derivatives to 
manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from 
underlying business and ﬁnancing activities. Transactions of a 
speculative nature are prohibited. The Group’s treasury activities 
are governed by policies approved and monitored by the Board.
Going concern
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis as the Directors are satisﬁed that the Group has adequate 
ﬁnancial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable 
future. In making this statement, the Group’s Directors have: 
reviewed the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities; 
have made such other enquiries as they considered appropriate; 
and have taken into account ‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009’ published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Tom Atherton Finance Director
20 May 2015 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
3 2
5
7
4
6
1
Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board 
of Directors, which today comprises two 
Executive Directors, one Non-executive 
Chairman and three independent Non-
executive Directors. Together, the Executive 
Directors have over 30 years experience of 
the business. 
The Board sets strategy and monitors progress. Day-to-
day matters are the responsibility of the Management 
Board, which today comprises the two Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary & General Counsel 
and four other senior managers. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 33
Governance
1. Mark Allen
Chief Executive ◊ Δ
Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief Executive in January 
2007. He joined Dairy Crest in August 1991. He was formally with 
Shell UK Ltd. He is a Trustee for The Prince’s Countryside Fund a 
Non-Executive Director of Howden Joinery Group Plc and a member 
of the GLF Schools Board and the Dairy UK Board.
2. Tom Atherton 
Finance Director ◊ Δ
Appointed May 2013. A Chartered Accountant who has worked for 
Dairy Crest for over 9 years. Prior to his appointment to the Board 
he served as Director of Financial Control. He has previously held 
senior finance positions in Logica plc and Thorn plc.
3. Stephen Alexander
Chairman ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in January 2011, as 
Chairman in September 2014 and Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee in March 2015. Prior to being appointed Chairman, 
Stephen served as Remuneration Committee Chairman. He is 
Chairman of Immediate Media Company Ltd and of Rhubarb Food 
Design Ltd, an Operating Partner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman 
of Look Ahead Care and Support. Previously Chairman of Maltby 
Capital Ltd (parent company of EMI Group), Chairman of Odeon 
Cinemas, Chief Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd and held senior 
positions with Allied Domecq PLC and Imperial Foods. He was also 
Senior Independent Director at Devro plc.
4. Richard Macdonald
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡ ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2010, as 
Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit Committee 
in May 2012 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 
November 2014, prior to which he was Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. Richard had a 30 year career with the 
National Farmers Union, serving as Director General for 13 years. 
He is a Non-executive Director of Moy Park Limited and the 
Environment Agency, a Governor of The Royal Agricultural University 
Cirencester, Vice Chairman of the National Institute of Agricultural 
Botany and became Chairman of Farm Africa in 2013.
5. Andrew Carr-Locke
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in August 2009. A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants, he has previously held senior finance 
positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak 
and was Group Finance Director at George Wimpey plc until 2007. 
More recently he was Executive Chairman of Countryside Properties. 
He has previously held Non-executive directorships at Royal Mail 
Holdings, Venture Production and AWG and was appointed a Non-
executive Director of Grainger plc in March 2015.
6. Sue Farr
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡ ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2011, 
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee in November 
2014 and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees in 
March 2015. She is a member of the Executive Management Team 
of Chime Communications PLC, a position she has held since 2003. 
She has extensive marketing communications experience, having 
served as Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director of 
Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 years and Director of 
Corporate Communications, Vauxhall Motors. Sue was appointed a 
Non-executive Director and member of the remuneration committee 
of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc in December 2013, a Non-
Executive Director and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration 
and Audit Committees of Accsys Technologies PLC in November 
2014 and a Non-Executive Director of British American Tobacco 
p.l.c. in February 2015. She has previously held positions as a 
Trustee of the Historic Royal Palaces and as a Non-executive 
Director of Motivcom plc.
7. Robin Miller
Company Secretary & General Counsel ◊ Δ #
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having worked in private 
practice and in-house in both retail and international manufacturing.
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Solicitors
Eversheds LLP
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank of  
Scotland plc
Rabobank International, 
London Branch 
Lloyds TSB plc
Santander UK plc
Corporate Brokers
J. P. Morgan Cazenove
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Registered Office
Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, 
Esher, Surrey 
KT10 9PN
Registered in England
No. 3162897
*
 Audit Committee Member
† Remuneration Committee Member
‡ Nomination Committee Member
◊ Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Member
Δ Management Board Member
# Not a Board Member 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Mike Barrington 
Group Supply Chain Director Δ
Before joining Dairy Crest in 2011, Mike 
held senior management positions 
with Cadbury Schweppes and Kraft 
Foods, latterly Manufacturing Director 
for Cadbury in the UK & Ireland. Mike 
joined Dairy Crest as Supply Chain 
Director, Dairies and was appointed to 
his current role in April 2013.
MANAGEMENT BOARD
Day-to-day matters are 
the responsibility of the 
Management Board, which 
currently comprises the 
two Executive Directors, 
the Company Secretary 
& General Counsel, the 
Managing Director, Dairies, 
the Group Commercial 
Director, the Group Supply 
Chain Director and the 
Group HR Director. Other 
senior managers attend by 
invitation. The Management 
Board normally meets 
weekly.
◊ Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Member
Δ Management Board Member
Mike Sheldon 
Managing Director, Dairies Δ
Mike joined Dairy Crest from PepsiCo 
22 years ago. He has held several 
senior management positions within the 
business. He took up his current role in 
November 2014.
Robert Willock 
Group HR Director ◊ Δ
Robert joined Dairy Crest 9 years 
ago as HR Director, Dairies from The 
Maersk Company where he was 
Director of Human Resources. He was 
appointed to his current role in April 
2013.
Adam Braithwaite 
Group Commercial Director Δ
Adam joined Dairy Crest in 2002 
and has held a number of senior 
management positions within the 
business. He was appointed Group 
Commercial Director in April 2013 
and joined the Management Board in 
November 2014. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 35
Governance
Over the last twelve months we have undergone a period of change 
as a Board as Anthony Fry, our previous Chairman, was taken ill in 
the spring 2014. Anthony’s illness coincided with a critical time in 
Dairy Crest’s development. We were able as a Board to cope during 
that challenging period because we had in place an effective 
governance framework and a Board comprising Directors equipped 
with resilience and the breadth and depth of experience to cope with 
unexpected challenges and therefore able to continue to focus on 
delivering our strategy. I am grateful to Richard Macdonald for his 
leadership as Acting Chairman during 2014 and for his continued 
support as Senior Independent Director. Under Richard’s guidance 
the Board was equipped to manage an unexpected succession 
from one Chairman to another and to ensure that process did not 
disrupt the Board’s work and the execution of the Company’s 
strategy.
The smooth succession from one Chairman to another, albeit in 
unexpected circumstances which none of us would have wanted to 
have arisen, clearly demonstrates the importance of good 
governance. Our focus within our governance framework on 
strategy, leadership and succession planning, amongst other 
matters, shows, I believe, the beneﬁts of good corporate governance 
and is a clear example of the effectiveness of the governance 
framework we have in place. As a Board, we recognise that 
appropriate planning and procedures are required not only for the 
efﬁcient operation of the Board but for the business as a whole.
In my introduction to this, our Corporate Governance report, I have 
sought to demonstrate how we have brought to life the principles of 
good governance. Good governance is however, broader than good 
succession planning and having the right mix of skills and 
experience required to deal with unexpected events. Amongst other 
matters it includes ensuring that the right tone is set at the top of our 
organisation in order to guide its behaviour and to ensure that our 
organisation lives by and demonstrates the right values. Those 
values must in turn enable entrepreneurial and prudent management 
of the resources which you, our shareholders, have entrusted to us 
so that we can deliver long term success for Dairy Crest and all its 
stakeholders. In this Report we demonstrate how we have 
addressed those broader principles of good governance through, 
amongst other things, ensuring that we have in place an effective 
internal framework of systems and controls which clearly deﬁne 
authority and accountability while at the same time enabling the 
appropriate management of risk.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Governance framework
The diagram below sets out the structure used to govern the 
Company. Through our governance structure we have established a 
clearly deﬁned set of values which are communicated throughout 
the Group. Our values are supported by a range of procedures and 
guidelines providing an appropriate roadmap to inform employees’ 
behaviour. Together with external governance codes they set an 
effective framework for the Group’s standards and governance. In 
order to prepare ourselves for the sale of the Dairies business we 
have refocused our commercial structures into Dairies, Cheese and 
Spreads and butters. The HR, Finance and Legal teams remain in 
place alongside the Dairies and Cheese, Butter, Oils & Spreads 
businesses.
As Chairman my role is to lead the 
Board and ensure it delivers against 
its responsibilities. A strong 
governance framework enables the 
Board to do so, helping to ensure it 
has clarity of purpose and a 
common understanding of the 
responsibilities and accountabilities 
which it must keep in mind when 
going about its business. The 
Board has two key responsibilities. It must provide 
entrepreneurial leadership to the business while at the same time 
exerting appropriate control. Our governance framework helps 
the Board to focus on the detailed activities which sit within those 
two broad responsibilities. As a Board we are committed to 
delivering the best possible outcomes and we are conscious of 
the need to take account of and balance the interests of all of our 
stakeholders.
Chairman’s introduction
A key benchmark is our compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council 
(‘FRC’) in September 2012 (‘Code’) – which can be found at  
www.frc.org.uk. I am pleased to report that we have complied with 
all relevant provisions of the Code during the 2013/14 year, although 
as a result of the changes which the Board has undergone we have 
had to delay slightly our Board evaluation process. The evaluation of 
our Board is ongoing and we cover it in more detail later in this 
Corporate Governance report.
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance 
of the Company. Its strong governance framework (as illustrated 
below) is supported by a combination of clear values, which are 
discussed elsewhere in this Report (see pages 6 to 7), appropriate 
policy, and an environment of transparency and accountability. The 
Board’s central role is to work alongside the executive team 
providing support, challenge, guidance and leadership. I believe that 
the Board of Dairy Crest is well balanced with a broad range of skills, 
diversity and experience.
My key objective for the coming year is to maintain focus on 
ensuring that we have the right people and processes in place to 
manage the transformation which Dairy Crest is undergoing within 
an appropriate risk framework.
Stephen Alexander Chairman
20 May 2015
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
Group
Board
Nomination
Committee
CR
Committee
Demand   HR   Finance   Legal
Management
Board
Dairies   Procurement   Supply 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
The Board
Role: The Board is collectively responsible for the entrepreneurial 
leadership and control of the Company against a framework of 
prudent and effective controls enabling the assessment and 
management of risk. As custodian of the Group’s strategic aims, 
vision and values it ensures that the necessary human, ﬁnancial and 
other resources necessary for the delivery of long term success of 
the Group are in place and scrutinises and reviews management’s 
performance. Each Director is aware of his/her responsibilities, 
individually and collectively, to promote the long term success of the 
Company consistent with their statutory duties.
How it operates: The Board’s agenda through the year is pre-
planned with sufﬁcient time allowed to enable the Board to react and 
respond to the changing landscape of the Group’s business as the 
year progresses. The Board’s key accountabilities are:
 Approval of the Group’s long term objectives and business 
strategy
 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets
 Maintaining an overview and control of the Group’s operating and 
ﬁnancial performance
 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
and risk management
 Oversight of the Company’s governance and compliance 
framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and 
Safety and Business Conduct and considering regulatory changes 
and developments
A formal schedule of matters reserved has been adopted by the 
Board and is available on the Group’s website www.dairycrest.co.uk.
Delegation of authority: the Board has delegated authority to ﬁve 
committees;
 Audit Committee
 Nomination Committee
 Management Board
 Corporate Responsibility Committee
 Remuneration Committee
The individual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate 
Responsibility and Remuneration Committees prefaced by an 
introduction from the chairman of each can be found at pages 40 to 
62. The Committees’ terms of reference, which to the extent 
required, comply with the Code, can be found on the Group’s 
website. Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the 
Management Board which under its terms of reference has 
delegated authority from the Board over operational decisions.
Composition: At the date of this Report, the Board comprises six 
Directors (two Executive, a Non-executive Chairman (who was 
independent on appointment) and three independent Non-executive 
Directors). Directors’ biographical details, experience, responsibilities 
and other commitments are set out at pages 32 to 33.
Balance and Independence: With three independent Non-
executive Directors and a Chairman who was independent on 
appointment, all of whom are free of any relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, 
the composition of the Board satisﬁes the requirements of the Code. 
The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate the suitable 
breadth of experience and backgrounds required to provide effective 
leadership for the Group. Details of the Group’s approach to diversity 
are set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee at page 43.
Chairman and Chief Executive: These roles are distinct and 
separate with clearly deﬁned accountabilities set out for each which 
can be found on the Group’s website (Chairman/Chief Executive 
Division of Responsibilities). The Chairman has particular 
responsibility for the effectiveness of the Group’s governance. He is 
accountable for ensuring the Board’s effectiveness in discharging its 
responsibilities, safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder 
interests and promoting effective communication with shareholders. 
Together with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the 
Company Secretary he sets the agenda for Board Meetings and 
directs the focus of the Board ensuring that adequate time is 
available for all agenda items. In promoting a culture of openness 
among the Board and ensuring constructive relations between 
Executive and Non-executive Directors, he facilitates the effective 
contribution of all Directors. To help ensure a proper dialogue with all 
Directors the Chairman meets with Directors individually and talks to 
the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Director: Following Stephen Alexander’s 
appointment as Chairman, Richard Macdonald has reverted to his 
role as Senior Independent Director, in which he provides a 
sounding board to the Chairman. He also acts as a lightning rod 
should matters arise which Directors wish to discuss with someone 
other than the Chairman. He is available to shareholders and other 
stakeholders in the Group’s business as needed; and where 
required, he deputises for the Chairman.
Non-executive Directors: All Non-executive Directors (including 
the Chairman) conﬁrmed on appointment that they had sufﬁcient 
time available to fulﬁl their obligations as Directors and that they 
would inform the Board should the position change. Details of the 
Chairman’s other signiﬁcant professional commitments are included 
in his biography (page 33). The Board is satisﬁed that he continues 
to have sufﬁcient time available to fulﬁl his obligations as a Director 
and Chairman. All signiﬁcant commitments of Non-executive 
Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and 
the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors 
scrutinise management’s performance in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of 
performance. The Chief Executive’s objectives, achievement of 
which inﬂuences his remuneration, are agreed with the 
Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the 
Chairman. Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by 
the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee monitors and 
scrutinises the integrity of ﬁnancial information as well as the 
robustness and defensibility of ﬁnancial controls and systems of risk 
management. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting 
and recommending Directors for appointment and in succession 
planning. The appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors 
from the Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the running of 
the Company or a proposed action, they would be recorded in the 
Board minutes. The Non-executive Directors recognise the principle 
that if on resignation from the Board a Director has unresolved 
concerns, that Director should provide a written statement to the 
Chairman for circulation to the Board. The concept that Non-
executive Directors are free to question any executive decision of the 
Company is enshrined in the engagement letter of each Non-
executive Director.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 37
Governance
Board and main Committee meetings
The Directors named in the table below held ofﬁce during the year. The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors 
in the year is shown in the table below. The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended 
during 2014/15.
 
Board 
(scheduled in 
annual work 
plan)
Board 
(additional to 
those schedule 
in annual 
work plan)
Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate
Responsibility
Management 
Board
Mr M Allen 8(8) 2(2)––– 3(3) 31(40)
Mr T Atherton
 i
8(8) 2(2)––– 3(3) 34(40)
Mr A Fry
 ii
0(4) 0(1) – – 0(1) – –
Mr M Wilks
 iii
7(8) 2(2)––– 2(3) 37(40)
Mr S Alexander
 iv
8(8) 2(2) 4(4) 3(3) 1(1) – –
Mr A Carr-Locke 7(8) 1(2) 4(4) 9(9) 1(1) – –
Ms S Farr
 v
8(8) 1(2) – 8(9) – 3(3) –
Mr R Macdonald
 vi
8(8) 2(2) 4(4) 6(6) 1(1) 3(3) –
January 2015 at the Group’s Davidstow site where we are building 
our new demineralised whey and GOS plants. The 2012/13 review 
also concluded that following changes to the Board’s composition in 
May 2013 when Alastair Murray had stepped down from the Board 
and Tom Atherton had been appointed Group Finance Director, Tom 
had assimilated well into the Board quickly consolidating the 
relationships which he had begun to build with the Directors in his 
previous role as Director of Financial Control.
It had been intended that the annual appraisal of the Board’s 
effectiveness required by provision B6 of the Code for the 2013/14 
ﬁnancial year would be undertaken in the spring of 2014. However, in 
light of Anthony Fry’s absence due to ill health and in recognition of 
the pivotal role played by the Chairman and the appraisal of his 
performance in the overall appraisal of the Board’s effectiveness and 
performance, the Board decided to postpone the annual appraisal 
of its performance pending Anthony’s return to his duties as 
Chairman. Unfortunately Anthony was unable to return to those 
duties and in light of that and in order to enable Stephen Alexander 
In the last Annual Report we reported on the decision taken to adopt 
a hybrid approach to the Board effectiveness review in 2012/13 
following the externally facilitated process undertaken in 2011/12 
with Rathmullan. In 2012/13 we used a combination of an initially 
internal process using questionnaires which was then followed up 
with individual interviews with the Directors and the Company 
Secretary conducted by IDDAS, a specialist mentoring, coaching 
and effectiveness consultancy. IDDAS focused on continuing with 
the themes of the previous effectiveness review, in particular 
ensuring that adequate progress had been made with the 
conclusions drawn from the ﬁrst externally facilitated review. IDDAS’ 
review concluded that the Board had made good progress in 
ensuring its visibility through more regular site visits and that 
relationships amongst the Board continued to work well with any 
issues arising being quickly resolved in an open and constructive 
manner. The Board visited the Group’s sites at Frome, Somerset 
(September 2013) and Chadwell Heath, London (January 2014). 
Building on the beneﬁts of greater visibility for the Board within the 
business, the Board held its meetings in September 2014 and 
i Tom Atherton was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 
6 March 2015
ii Anthony Fry stepped down from the Board on 17 September 2014
iii Martyn Wilks stepped down from the Board and its Committees on which he 
served on 31 March 2015
iv Stephen Alexander stepped down from the Remuneration Committee 
on 17 September 2014 and from the Audit Committee on 6 March 2015 
following his appointment as Chairman of the Board and was appointed 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 6 March 2015
v Sue Farr was appointed Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee on 3 November 2014 and as a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees on 6 March 2015
vi Richard Macdonald was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee on 3 November 2014
Information and Support: The Company Secretary advises the 
Chairman and the Board on all governance matters and ensures 
Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations 
complied with. He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a quality which enables the 
Board to discharge its duties. The Board, the Committees and all 
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. He provides the Board with regular reports on 
governance issues. Procedures exist for Directors to seek 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense where 
required.
Effectiveness: Normally the Board has eight scheduled meetings 
in its annual work plan. It holds additional meetings on an ad hoc 
basis as and when required. During the year the Board held a 
number of meetings associated with the sale of the Dairies business 
in addition to those scheduled in its annual work plan. It is inherent in 
the nature of large corporate transactions that the Board is called 
upon to meet more frequently than normal, often at short or relatively 
short notice, as it is required to deal with fast developing issues. 
Accordingly, although all of the Directors made every effort to attend 
meetings which were required in addition to those scheduled in the 
Board’s annual work plan, it was not always possible for them all to 
accommodate all of those additional meetings. Where they were 
unable to attend, they ensured that their input was given to the 
Chairman in advance. Details of the Board and Committee meetings 
held during the 2014/15 year and Directors’ attendance at those 
meetings is set out in the table below. 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
time to establish himself in the role of Chairman, it was decided that 
the next review of the Board’s effectiveness should be conducted 
later in 2015.
The decision has been taken to use an external facilitator to help the 
Board and Stephen, as the new Chairman, to conduct its next 
review. The Chairman and the Company Secretary are conducting a 
selection exercise to identify a range of possible organisations and 
approaches for the effectiveness review. Following a shortlisting 
process the Board will appoint an appropriate external facilitator. We 
will report on the outcome of the review in full in the next Annual 
Report and will post a summary report on the Company’s website in 
the interim.
The performance of Executive Directors in the context of their 
management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the 
normal way. As is the case with all management grade employees, 
Executive Directors participate in the Group’s performance and 
development review process. Under that process, the Chairman 
appraises the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Executive appraises the performance of the Group Finance Director. 
The outcome of reviews of performance of both Executive Directors 
is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee. The outcome of the 
performance review of Executive Directors is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report at page 52.
Induction and development: the Company Secretary ensures 
that Directors undergo a comprehensive induction programme on 
appointment. In addition to equipping Directors with sufﬁciently 
detailed knowledge of the operations of the Group’s business 
necessary to enable them effectively to carry out their duties, the 
induction programme is tailored to their experience, background and 
particular areas of focus.
Conﬂicts of interest: The Companies Act 2006 places a duty on 
each Director to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have 
a direct or indirect interest which conﬂicts or may conﬂict with the 
interests of the Company. That duty is in addition to the obligation 
owed by Directors to the Company to disclose to the Board any 
transaction or arrangement which gives rise or may give rise to a 
conﬂict of interest under consideration by the Company. Procedures 
are in place for Directors to disclose conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of 
interest. The Company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’) authorise 
the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise conﬂicts or possible 
conﬂicts of interest between Directors and the Company. Non-
executive Directors’ letters of appointment require Non-executives to 
obtain the prior approval of the Board to appointments external to 
the Company where those appointments might affect the time they 
are able to devote to their role. That requirement assists the Board to 
ensure no conﬂict of interest may result from such appointments. 
When considering conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of interest, the 
conﬂicted or potentially conﬂicted Director is excluded from 
participation in the Board’s consideration of the conﬂict or potential 
conﬂict situation. From 2014 onwards we adopted a more formalised 
process where at the Board’s April meeting, as part of the year-end 
sign off process when Directors approve their emoluments 
statements, they conﬁrm in writing that they had no present or 
anticipated conﬂicts of interest. That process was most recently 
repeated at the Board’s April 2015 meeting. No Director had a 
material interest in any signiﬁcant contract with the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries during the year.
Appointment and re-election: The Articles provide that the 
Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a 
Director either to ﬁll a vacancy or as an additional director. A Director 
appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM following 
appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members. The 
Articles require all Directors to be elected annually. All Directors will 
stand for re-election at the Company’s 2015 Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’). Having regard to the roles performed by each of the 
Directors, the individual input and contribution they make and their 
individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisﬁed that each 
candidate’s performance justiﬁes nomination for re-election by 
shareholders. Service agreements of Executive Directors and a 
template letter of appointment of Non-executive Directors are 
published on the Company’s website and are available for inspection 
by any person at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal 
ofﬁce hours and will also be available at the 2015 AGM for 15 
minutes before and throughout the meeting.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship with 
its shareholders. It fully supports the principles encouraging dialogue 
between companies and their shareholders in the Code and the UK 
Stewardship Code. The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
have primary responsibility for investor relations. They are supported 
by the Group’s Investor Relations team. Amongst other matters, 
they organise presentations for analysts and institutional investors 
and hold meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss 
strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately 
after the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements. Slide 
presentations made to institutional shareholders are made available 
on the Company’s website along with annual and interim reports, 
interim management statements, trading updates and company 
announcements. Announcements are made as appropriate and 
required through a Regulatory Information Service.
All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with 
shareholders. Feedback from meetings with shareholders is 
provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders. The 
Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic 
reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the 
Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders. During the 
year the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chairman held 
meetings with key investors to discuss, amongst other matters, the 
Transformational Share Award for the Chief Executive which was 
approved by shareholders in General Meeting in December 2014.
The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is 
dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
meeting. Ordinarily all Directors attend the AGM and are available to 
answer shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting. 
The Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on 
the progress and performance of the Group before the formal 
business of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed 
relating to the Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy 
voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM including the 
level of votes for and against resolutions and abstentions, and are 
posted on the Company’s website following the conclusion of the 
meeting. At the last AGM, consistent with corporate governance 
best practice, voting was conducted on a poll and the result was 
published on the Company’s website after the meeting. Voting will 
again be conducted on a poll at this year’s AGM.
Risk management and internal control
The Board determines the nature and extent of the signiﬁcant risks it 
is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. It has overall 
responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness in which task it is assisted by the Audit 
Committee and the Group Internal Audit function. It has delegated 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 39
Governance
responsibility for management of day-to-day operational risks to the 
Management Board and responsibility for the detailed review of 
internal control to the Audit Committee. It has established a sound 
system of risk management and internal control, the key 
components of which are set out below. Group Internal Audit 
supports the Board and Audit Committee in reviewing the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control. Through periodic 
reviews during the year, the Board has satisﬁed itself that its systems 
accord with the FRC’s Guidance on Internal Control (the ‘Turnbull 
Guidance’) and that satisfactory internal control procedures and 
systems have been in place throughout the year in compliance with 
the requirements of the Code. A rolling audit programme conducted 
by Group Internal Audit across the Group forms a key facet of the 
Group’s systems of internal control. The Head of Group Internal 
Audit reports independently to the chairman of the Audit Committee 
on assurance matters. It is not possible entirely to eliminate risk; 
accordingly, although the systems are designed to manage risks 
they cannot provide absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. They provide reasonable assurance that 
potential issues can be identiﬁed promptly and remedied 
appropriately. The key components of the risk management and 
internal control systems include:
 Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all 
signiﬁcant strategic, ﬁnancial and organisational risks
 A management structure which includes clear lines of 
responsibility and documented delegations of authority with 
appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, 
incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Group’s assets
 The operation of comprehensive ﬁnancial and strategic planning, 
forecasting and review processes
 Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the 
Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Group’s control processes 
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external ﬁnancial 
reporting
 The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the 
business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of 
the Group’s business, trading results, balance sheet and cash ﬂow 
information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of 
which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board
 Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget (including 
analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for 
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks) 
in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each 
key constituent part of the Group and key departments report 
performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel 
comprising the Management Board and other senior executives
 Formal documented ﬁnancial controls and procedures including 
speciﬁc procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of 
signiﬁcant contracts
 Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of 
a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the 
approval of business unit management
 Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed 
by senior management, the Management Board and the Board 
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership 
and mitigation of signiﬁcant risks to members of the Management 
Board and independent assurance over the appropriate 
implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by 
Group Internal Audit
 Review by the Audit Committee of the Group’s risk register 
processes
 Review and approval of the audit plan for the Group’s Internal 
Audit function together with progress against and revision of the 
plan as appropriate, throughout the year
 Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all 
Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, 
corrective action plans and progress against those plans
 The operation of an integrated business planning process with 
formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle ﬁnancial 
performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with 
associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to 
performance
Fair balanced and understandable: Provision C.1 of the Code 
requires the Directors to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects. When the 
provision was ﬁrst introduced to the Code, the Audit Committee 
adopted a detailed process to enable the Board to report against 
this principle of the Code. The resultant more structured approach 
(see table below) to the preparation of the Report and Accounts has 
been repeated in the production of this Report and Accounts which 
the Board formally signed off at its meeting in May 2015.
January/February/March April May
Initial content 
production
Prepare content not 
dependent on year end 
results, e.g.: business 
model, strategy, 
corporate governance 
sections.
Project Manager (‘PM’) 
considers whether 
content collated is itself 
and collectively fair 
balanced and 
understandable (‘FBU’): 
review and amend.
Identify material events/
performance issues 
that will need to be 
reported
Agree key messages
Start completing and 
collating performance 
related content, e.g. 
remuneration report.
Consider new 
regulations and 
consistency with key 
messages and KPIs.
PM considers whether 
content collated is itself 
and collectively FBU: 
review and amend
Review and sign off
Conﬁrmation from 
contributors as to 
completeness of input.
Appropriate review of 
full content, for 
consistency, 
completeness and 
messaging: review and 
amend.
‘Sign-off’ by section 
owners.

section owners to agree 
that whole Annual 
Report and Accounts 
(‘ARA’) is FBU.

off from section owners 
to the Board.
Formal sign off
Consider level of 
assurance obtained 
over non-ﬁnancial 
information in the ARA.
Where applicable Audit 
Committee to formally 
report to the Board on 
how it has satisﬁed itself 
that ARA is FBU.
Board to minute 
consideration of FBU 
with Board paper 
showing the process 
and results.
The Board’s assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable 
nature of the Annual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, 
amongst other matters, the following:
The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management 
with overall coordination by the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel.
An internal veriﬁcation process is undertaken by the Internal Auditors 
to ensure factual accuracy.
Comprehensive reviews of the draft Annual Report and Accounts 
are undertaken by Management Board members, and in relation to 
certain sections by the Company’s external lawyers, by the External 
Auditor and other advisors.
The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are 
prepared through an iterative drafting process by the Chairmen of 
appropriate Committees of the Board and the ﬁnal draft is reviewed 
by those Committees prior to consideration by the Board.
At its May 2015 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisﬁed that 
the Annual Report and Accounts for ﬁnancial year 2014/15, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board 
believes that the information contained therein provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
and Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
 Going Concern Review: the Committee received management’s 
report on; procedures undertaken to support the going concern 
statement; the level of the Group’s borrowing facilities and 
forthcoming deadlines for repayment or renegotiation of those 
facilities; the amount of headroom over borrowing facilities and the 
adequacy of committed facilities to meet cash requirements in the 
2015/16 ﬁnancial year; budgeted net debt and EBITDA and 
headroom related to banking covenants. The Committee was 
satisﬁed that the proposed going concern statement to be made 
in the 2015 Annual Report and accounts is appropriate.
 Accounting treatment for the Dairies operations: for both 
the interim ﬁnancial statements and the full year Group ﬁnancial 
statements, the Committee reviewed with management and EY 
the accounting treatment to be adopted for the Dairies operations 
at both 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2015 in light of the 
conditional sale of the Dairies operations to Müller. In considering 
whether the Dairies business should be accounted for as held for 
sale under the requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non Current assets held 
for sale and discontinued operations’, the Committee considered 
whether the transaction was highly probable given the status of 
the regulatory approval process and ongoing advice obtained by 
the Board from legal advisers. The Committee conﬁrmed that the 
accounting conclusion that Dairies should not be presented as 
held for sale in the 2015 Group ﬁnancial statement should be 
disclosed as a key area of judgement.
 Annual impairment review: the Committee reviewed a 
management report supporting the conclusion that no impairment 
of goodwill or property, plant and equipment should be 
recognised at 31 March 2015 albeit a reasonably possible change 
in assumptions might lead to an impairment in the Dairies cash 
generating unit (‘CGU’). Due to the low margins and challenging 
market conditions associated with the Dairies business, the 
carrying value of property plant and equipment in the Dairies CGU 
was reviewed for impairment. The Committee reviewed with 
management and EY key assumptions used including, but not 
limited to, discount rates, cash inﬂows from forecast property 
disposals, proﬁt margins, the potential timing and amount of 
disposable proceeds and the allocation of corporate costs. In light 
of the conditional sale of the Dairies operations, the methodology 
applied in calculating an appropriate value in use for the Dairies 
CGU was reviewed and the Committee agreed that this should be 
disclosed as a key area of judgement applied in the 2015 Group 
ﬁnancial statements.
 Revenue recognition and promotional activity: given the 
judgemental nature of certain promotional accruals, the 
Committee routinely reviews the level of promotional accruals at 
the half year and the full year. It considers the results of the interim 
review and the audit conducted by EY which assessed the 
effectiveness of redemption rates used and the effectiveness of 
controls. In light of current regulatory focus on promotional activity, 
the Committee recommended to the Board that it conduct a 
review of the Group’s commercial arrangements with key retail 
customers. The Board’s review concluded there were no changes 
required to the accounting approach used and that appropriate 
controls were in place.
 Exceptional items: the Committee challenged the 
appropriateness of the classiﬁcation of items as exceptional and 
compliance with the Group’s accounting policies when dealing 
with exceptional items. The Committee was satisﬁed that 
exceptional items had been appropriately classiﬁed, treated 
consistently and discussions were transparent.
 Capitalisation of assets: given the scale of the investment in the 
new demineralised whey and GOS facilities at Davidstow, the 
Committee considered Internal Audit’s ﬁndings from their review 
performed in November 2014 of ﬁnancial controls for actual 
The Committee has clearly deﬁned accountabilities which are set 
out in its terms of reference and has a work programme which 
encompasses regular, routine activity, planned proactive activity and 
when necessary, reactive activity. Details of the Committee’s work 
programme undertaken during the year are set out in the Report 
below. The Code encourages audit committees to report not just on 
the areas of work they have undertaken, but also on the signiﬁcant 
issues they have considered during the year. Following the period of 
signiﬁcant change and major internal restructuring undertaken in 
2013/14, the Committee continued to focus on the integrity of 
ﬁnancial reporting following the changes undergone by the Group’s 
ﬁnance team and the appointment of Tom Atherton as Group 
Finance Director in 2013/14. Change has been a consistent theme 
during the year with signiﬁcant focus on the delivery of the Group’s 
strategy to build market leading positions in branded and added 
value markets, part of the implementation of which is the sale of the 
Group’s Dairies business which is subject to competition clearance 
and its development of its demineralised whey and GOS plants. 
During the year, the Committee has focused on ensuring the 
continued integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial management and 
reporting systems, its policies and its internal controls against this 
backdrop of change in order to ensure maintenance of the control 
environment.
Signiﬁcant matters relating to the 2015 Group ﬁnancial 
statements:
The Committee discussed with management the key judgements 
applied in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements and the impact of 
signiﬁcant accounting items arising in the year. The main items 
discussed were:
Being entirely independent of 
management and enjoying a free 
ranging remit on behalf of the 
Board, the Audit Committee plays a 
crucial role in the governance of 
Dairy Crest. It provides oversight of 
the essential checks, balances and 
controls which are relied upon by 
our shareholders in order to have 
conﬁdence that their interests are 
appropriately safeguarded. The Committee provides assurance 
over the integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting, including the 
interim and full year accounts; it enables shareholders and other 
stakeholders to have conﬁdence that appropriate scrutiny has 
been applied to the Company’s and the Group’s accounting 
policies and that key accounting issues have been approached in 
an appropriate manner and a proper assessment of the 
Company as a going concern has been undertaken by 
management and the Board. The Committee scrutinises 
management’s approach to judgmental issues and challenges 
management to ensure that judgements are approached in an 
unbiased manner with proper consideration of relevant facts. 
The Committee’s work combined with assurance derived from 
internal and external auditors helps the Group to operate within a 
framework of suitable controls enabling the risks necessary for 
the Group’s growth and for the enhancement of shareholder 
value to be properly controlled and mitigated. The Board is 
ultimately responsible for the identiﬁcation, assessment and 
management of risk and the Committee assists it in the oversight 
of risk in addition to its core duties related to ﬁnancial oversight 
and reporting.
 Audit Committee report Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 41
Governance
external auditor and the Company’s process for monitoring 
compliance with laws and external regulations. Final responsibility for 
ﬁnancial reporting, compliance with laws and regulations and risk 
management rests with the Board to which the Committee regularly 
reports back.
Meetings: the Committee’s core work is driven by a structured 
programme of activity settled at the start of the year between the 
Committee Chairman, management and EY. As well as its core 
work, the Committee undertakes additional work in response to the 
evolving audit landscape. The following non-exhaustive list provides 
highlights of the Committee’s core and additional work undertaken 
during the year:
12 May 2014 Received and considered EY’s 2014 Audit Results Report
 
 Received management’s review of changes to relevant 
accounting standards and policies affecting the draft Report 
and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2014 (including 
the legislative requirements for the inclusion in the Report 
and Accounts of a strategic report and the Group’s 
approach to the preparation of the strategic report as well as 
the fair balanced and understandable requirement under the 
Code)
 
 Reviewed its own performance and that of EY along with 
EY’s objectivity and the independence and effectiveness of 
EY’s processes, and recommended to the Board EY’s 
reappointment as the external auditor
 
 Received Group Internal Audit’s updates on pre-existing 
whistleblowing notiﬁcations and any new notiﬁcations as well 
as its report on ﬁnancial and operational controls audits and 
its progress against audit plan. Approved Group Internal 
Audit’s work plan for the next ﬁnancial year
15 September 
2014
 Received Group Internal Audit’s report on ﬁnancial and 
operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing 
notiﬁcations and any new notiﬁcations
 
 Considered EY’s 2014/15 Audit Planning Report
 
 Received a report on the impact of changes to UK GAAP 
and the introduction of new ﬁnancial reporting standards on 
the Company
 
 Received an update on and reviewed the Group’s IT security 
and cyber risks together with appropriate controls and 
recommended changes to policy
 
 Reviewed the outcome of the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Audit Quality Inspections, including in particular, the 
outcome of the Audit Quality Inspection of EY
3 November 
2014
 Received Group Internal Audit’s report on ﬁnancial and 
operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing 
notiﬁcations and any new notiﬁcations
 
 Received management’s analytical review of the results for 
the period ended 30 September 2014 and reviewed and 
approved for recommendation to the Board draft Interim 
Accounts for that period
 
 Received and considered EY’s Interim Review Report for the 
period ended 30 September 2014
6 March 2015 Received a report on and reviewed the Group’s accounting 
for its Dairies business at 31 March 2015
 
 Received and considered a report on the conduct of the 
annual impairment review of the Group’s operations, 
including, in particular, impairment testing of the Dairies 
assets
 
 Received and considered EY’s Audit Update Report
 
 Received Group Internal Audit’s update on audits conducted 
in the period and progress with its audit plan, as well as 
whistleblowing notiﬁcations received during the period and 
an update on investigations into previous notiﬁcations
expenditure against approved capital expenditure, including 
compliance with the Group’s purchasing policies and procedures.
 Fair balanced and understandable: at its meeting on 11 May 
2015, the Committee reviewed the process which had been 
followed for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts 
(see page 39) together with the content of the draft Annual Report 
and Accounts and considered whether the Code requirements for 
the presentation of a fair balanced and understandable Annual 
Report and Accounts had been met. The Committee challenged 
management over the appropriateness of the degree of 
conﬁdence with which completion of the sale of the Dairies 
business was presented in the Strategic report section of the 
Annual Report considering the accounting treatment applied to 
the sale, which is conditional on competition clearance, in the draft 
Accounts. The Committee provided comment for consideration by 
the Board, subject to which, it considered the Annual Report and 
Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
In light of the considerable focus which is rightly placed on the 
objectivity and independence of the external auditor, we shall report 
more fully later in this Report on the Committee’s approach to 
external audit tendering. Finally, as Stephen Alexander replaced 
Anthony Fry during the year as Chairman of the Board, in order to 
ensure continued compliance with the Code, Stephen stood down 
from the Committee. In turn, Sue Farr joined the Committee and I 
would like to take this opportunity formally to welcome her to the 
Committee.
Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee
20 May 2015
Membership: details of the members of the Committee at the date 
of this Report together with details of attendance at meetings are set 
out at page 37. Changes to membership of the committee during the 
year are set out in the footnotes to the table on page 37. The Board 
considers that the Chairman of the Committee has recent and 
relevant ﬁnancial experience for the purposes of the Code.
Invitations to attend meetings: a standing invitation has been 
made by the Committee to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director to attend the Committee’s 
meetings. The Group Reporting Controller, Group Financial 
Controller, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives of EY 
attend all meetings at the invitation of the Committee. During the 
year the External and Internal Auditors attended all meetings and 
also met privately with the Committee.
Role and responsibilities: consistent with the FRC’s “Guidance 
on Audit Committees” the Committee’s role and responsibilities are 
concerned with ﬁnancial reporting, narrative reporting, 
whistleblowing and fraud, internal controls and risk management 
systems, internal audit and external audit. The Committee’s 
scheduled activities are planned in accordance with its terms of 
reference, which have been approved by the Board. 
Terms of reference: the Committee has documented terms of 
reference which are approved by the Board. They are reviewed at 
least annually and during the year they were last reviewed at the 
Committee’s meeting in March 2015. Its terms of reference comply 
with the Code and can be found on the Group’s website.
Objectives: the Board has delegated authority to the Committee to 
oversee and review the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting process, system 
of internal control and management of business risks, the internal 
audit process, the external audit process and relationship with the  42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year, 
which included acting as reporting accountant as part of the Dairies 
sale transaction and research and development related tax work, 
are set out at Note 2 to the Accounts at page 86. The Committee 
was satisﬁed that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit 
fees were not material relative to the income of the external auditor 
ﬁrm as a whole. It was satisﬁed that the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor was maintained throughout 
the year. 
External auditor appointment:
EY has been the Company and Group’s external auditor since the 
Company ﬂoated in 1996. The external audit appointment has not 
been tendered competitively since EY’s appointment. During the 
prior year and the year covered by this Annual Report, the 
Committee has closely monitored regulatory developments 
concerning external audit tendering and has assessed the 
implications of the transitional arrangements for the Competition and 
Markets Authority’s order concerning audit contract tender (‘Order’) 
and the EU audit regulation (‘Regulation’), which comes into force in 
June 2016.
In light of EY’s long association with the Company, EY and the 
Committee have agreed that EY will not participate in the next tender 
exercise for the Company’s external audit engagement. During the 
2013/14 ﬁnancial year, the Company introduced a policy requiring 
that the external audit engagement is tendered each 10 years, the 
ﬁrst of which tendering exercises must be undertaken not later than 
the end of 2019. In so doing, the Committee believes it will comply 
with the provisions of the Order, the Regulation and the Code.
During the year the Committee decided that it would plan to 
undertake a tender process timed to enable the appointment of a 
new external auditor in readiness for the start of the 2017/18 ﬁnancial 
year on 1 April 2017. The Committee is keeping its approach to the 
external auditor appointment and continued regulatory changes 
under review. It currently expects to make a ﬁnal decision on an 
audit tender by the end of 2015, by which time the Department for 
Business Innovation and Skills will have published the conclusion of 
its consultation on the effects of the Regulation.
The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor 
throughout the year and formally concludes the assessment of its 
performance every May and makes a corresponding 
recommendation on the appointment of EY for the forthcoming 
ﬁnancial year to the Board. Shareholders formally appoint the 
external auditor at the AGM in July. In light of the assessments and 
review undertaken last May, the Board endorsed the Committee’s 
recommendation which was approved by shareholders in July 2014. 
At its meeting in May 2015, the Audit Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the re-appointment of EY as the Group’s external 
auditor for the 2015/16 year. In doing so it took account of the 
Committee’s review of the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and the effectiveness 
of the audit process together with other relevant review processes 
conducted throughout the year. The Committee was satisﬁed that it 
should recommend to the Board the re-appointment of EY as the 
Company’s and Group’s external auditor.
External auditor objectivity and independence: the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor is critical to the integrity of 
the audit. During the year the Committee reviewed the external 
auditor’s own policies and procedures for safeguarding its objectivity 
and independence. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Company with regard to the external auditor’s appointment. Audit 
engagement partner rotation requirements have been routinely 
observed. The audit engagement partner provided her annual 
representation to the Committee as to the external auditor’s 
independence and conﬁrmed that EY’s reward and remuneration 
structure includes no incentives for her to cross sell non-audit 
services to audit clients.
The Committee’s assessment of EY’s independence is underpinned 
by the Group’s policy on the use of EY for the provision of non-audit 
services. The policy contains a presumption against the use of the 
external auditor for non-audit services. EY may only be engaged for 
the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that 
presumption where those services are expressly permitted under 
the policy and where there is a demonstrable efﬁciency, audit 
enhancement or cost beneﬁt resulting from the engagement of the 
external auditor. Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the 
provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have 
been considered and discounted.
Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to 
the Group include, amongst others:
 Bookkeeping services and preparation of ﬁnancial information
 The design, supply or implementation of ﬁnancial information 
systems
 Appraisal or valuation services
 Internal audit services
 Actuarial services
Fees paid to EY during the year are set out in the table below, 
together with prior year comparisons:
2014/15
£m
2013/14
£m
Total audit fees
0.4 0.4
Non-audit fees
Taxation services
0.1 0.1
Other non-audit services
0.5 –
Total non-audit fees
0.6 0.1
Total Fees
1.0 0.5
6 March 2015 
continued
 Received and considered an update on the regulatory 
environment surrounding audit tenders and changes to that 
environment and considered a proposed approach for 
adoption by the Group to tendering the external audit 
engagement
 
 Received an update on and reviewed the Group’s IT security 
and cyber risk
 
 Reviewed the Committee’s performance during the year 
against its work plan satisfying itself that it had achieved its 
work plan as well as a number of additional matters which 
had arisen during the year and that it had satisﬁed its remit 
under its terms of reference, which it also reviewed and 
decided that no changes were required to them Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 43
Governance
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the selection and 
appointment of Directors and making its recommendations to the 
Board. In conjunction with the Chairman it also evaluates the 
commitments of individual Directors and ensures that the 
membership of the Board and its principal committees are refreshed 
periodically. The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the 
Company that Executive Directors take up opportunities to act as 
Non-executive Directors in other appropriate companies. Executive 
Directors are permitted to serve in a non-executive capacity on the 
board of one other listed company and to retain any fees received. 
Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, executive or 
otherwise, on the boards of other companies or appropriate 
organisations. Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
require them to seek prior approval from the Board before accepting 
any additional commitment that might affect the time that they are 
able to devote to their role as a Non-executive Director of the 
Company. The Board has the opportunity to satisfy itself that 
Non-executive Directors’ other commitments allow them to devote 
adequate time to their commitments to the Company. The Board 
approved all new appointments of Directors during the year and is 
satisﬁed that all Directors continue to have sufﬁcient time to devote 
themselves properly to their duties for the Company.
The Committee has not been required during the year to assist the 
Board with the recruitment of a Director. Were it to be so required, it 
would ensure that the recruitment exercise was conducted against a 
documented brief setting out the requirements of the role and the 
skills and experience required of the person to ﬁll it. In the past, the 
Company has engaged the services of external search 
consultancies and it is anticipated, in the ordinary course, that it 
would continue to do so in the future. Were it not to do so, open 
advertising would be used as an alternative. None of the Non-
I present to shareholders the report on the work of the Nomination 
Committee during the 2014/15 financial year. Details of the 
membership of the Committee and the attendance of members at 
Committee meetings during the year are set out on page 37. For 
the majority of the year, in Anthony Fry’s absence, I chaired the 
Committee. Stephen Alexander was appointed as Chairman of 
the Committee in March 2015. As I chaired the Committee during 
most of the year on which we are reporting, I am reporting on the 
Committee’s work rather than Stephen.
Nomination Committee report
executive Directors, or the Chairman, who was independent on 
appointment, has yet served six years in ofﬁce. Andrew Carr-Locke 
is the longest serving of the independent Non-executive Directors. In 
August 2015 he will have served six years on the Board.
During the year the Committee’s main focus was on the potential 
need for succession to the position of Chairman of the Board, 
should, as unfortunately proved to be the case, Anthony be unable 
to return to the role. The Committee also focused on any other 
additional consequential changes required to be made to the 
membership of the Board and its Committees. In recruiting Stephen 
Alexander to the Board in 2010/11 careful consideration had been 
given to future succession planning for the Chairman’s role. Keeping 
in mind the critical juncture in the development of the Group’s 
business at which we found ourselves, it was clearly appropriate 
given Stephen’s experience and suitability for the role that the 
Committee recommended to the Board his appointment as 
Chairman. 
In order to ensure continued compliance with the Code and that the 
Board’s Committees could continue to function properly, a number 
of changes were also required to the Board’s Committees. During 
the year following his appointment as Chairman of the Board, 
Stephen stood down from the Audit Committee and as Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee. I was appointed Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and Sue Farr joined the Audit Committee 
and Nomination Committees and was appointed Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee from which role I stood down, 
although I remain a member of that Committee. Finally, the 
Committee recommended to the Board that Stephen Alexander 
become Chairman of the Nomination Committee, which 
recommendation was endorsed by the Board – although in the event 
that the Nomination Committee is in the future required to deal with 
the appointment of Stephen’s successor, in compliance with the 
Code, I would lead that process as Senior Independent Director. The 
Committee and the Board have considered whether, in light of 
Martyn Wilks departure from the Board, an additional Executive 
Director is required to be appointed to the Board. The Committee’s 
recommendation, accepted and endorsed by the Board, was that 
for the time being, given the changes which the Company is 
undergoing, no additional appointment should be made although it 
will be keeping that recommendation under review.
The Group has not adopted targets for female representation 
amongst the Directors. It interprets diversity in its widest sense and 
aims to achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by 
ensuring an appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, 
experience and knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers 
and other employees. The Committee considers that ﬁrst and 
foremost, appointments must be made based on an objective 
assessment of who is the best person to ﬁll a role, with candidates 
drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds. The Group will continue 
to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, irrespective of 
age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic 
origin, sexual orientation or religious afﬁliation.
Richard Macdonald Senior Independent Director
20 May 2015
Sector experience Independence
Female 
17%
Finance
33%
Non-
independent 
33%
Independent 
67%
Communications/
Marketing 17%
Agriculture
17%
FMCG/
Manufacturing
33%
8+ years 
tenure 17%
4-7 years 
tenure 66%
0-3 years
tenure 17%
Male 
83%
Length of tenure Board gender 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Management Board
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises 
the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Group’s 
executive team. Details of the members of the Management Board 
can be found at pages 32 to 34. The Management Board is 
responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Group’s 
strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business 
and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the 
day-to-day operations of the Group’s business, its performance 
against forecasts and budgets and proﬁtability. The Management 
Board normally meets weekly.
Information included in the Directors’ report
Certain information fulﬁlling the requirements of the Corporate 
Governance Report can be found in the Directors’ Report at pages 
63 to 65 under the headings ‘Substantial shareholdings’, ‘Rights and 
obligations attaching to shares’, ‘Articles of association’ and 
‘Purchase of own shares’ and is incorporated into this Corporate 
Governance Report by reference.
By order of the Board
Robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel
20 May 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
The Committee oversees the Group’s corporate responsibility 
programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental 
issues are assessed and prioritised including reviewing the 
Company’s 40 corporate responsibility pledges. In addition to me as 
Chairman, the Committee comprises Richard Macdonald, Mark 
Allen, Tom Atherton, Robin Miller, Robert Willock and Adam 
Braithwaite.
During the year the Group continued to beneﬁt from working in 
collaboration with other businesses to deliver larger scale beneﬁts to 
society. Examples have included our continued support of the IGD’s 
Feeding Britain’s Future initiative through which employees have 
helped over 140 young people ﬁnd employment since 2013. 
Through our community partnership with Marks & Spencer we have 
also been able to offer over 80 young people 80 hours of work 
experience. Aware that without dairy farmers we would not have a 
business we are also proud of the work we have done through the 
Prince’s Countryside Fund and more speciﬁcally, the Prince’s Dairy 
Initiative, a programme that helps the most vulnerable dairy farms 
become more economically and environmentally sustainable.
Overall the Committee views corporate responsibility as an 
opportunity to improve and add further value to the business. 
Accordingly, good corporate responsibility is in the interests of all of 
Dairy Crest’s stakeholders. We believe that the Group’s approach 
helps to spark creative, innovative ideas which contribute to the 
business’ better understanding of its consumers and will lead to 
greater success.
Sue Farr Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
20 May 2015
I am delighted to present to 
shareholders my first report 
as Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee which 
can be found on pages 23 to 27. 
As referred to in the report of the 
Nomination Committee, Richard 
Macdonald chaired the Committee 
during the year until November. I 
thank Richard for his leadership 
of the Committee during which time the Company’s corporate 
responsibility programme has gone from strength to strength as 
demonstrated by the Group’s continued success in the reduction 
of accidents in the workplace, its reduced water usage and the 
launch of healthier innovative products. It was with great pride 
that we reported last year that the Group had achieved four and 
a half stars in the 2014 BITC corporate responsibility audit, the 
highest rating of any participating member company, which built 
on the achievement of a BITC Platinum Big Tick in 2013. It is 
with equal pride that I am able to report to you that in the 2015 
BITC corporate responsibility audit we have achieved the highest 
possible rating of five stars. I was also delighted that in 2014 Dairy 
Crest was the recipient of the prestigious IGD President’s Cup, an 
award that recognises, in part, the work that the Company has 
made to helping the organisation achieve its societal objectives.
Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 45
Governance
The Dairies transaction
2014/15 has been a notable year for Dairy Crest. On 6 November we 
announced that we have agreed to sell the assets and business of our 
Dairies operations to Müller. A sale is conditional on approval from the 
relevant competition authorities and the process to obtain approval is 
on track. After completion of a sale, Dairy Crest’s focus will be on its 
proﬁtable, predominantly branded, cheese and spreads operations. It 
will also grow its revenue and proﬁts by continuing to develop 
whey-based products, speciﬁcally demineralised whey powder and 
galacto-oligosaccharide, for the fast growing global infant formula 
market. A sale of the Dairies operations will be a transformational and 
a hugely positive transaction for the Company, our shareholders and 
the sector.
In light of the challenges that lay ahead for Dairy Crest over this critical 
period for the business, the Committee determined that the retention 
of Mark Allen, given his unique knowledge of the Group’s business 
and in-depth knowledge of the sector in which it operates and his 
relationships with the Company’s key stakeholders, is paramount over 
the coming three years. Mark has been the Company’s Chief 
Executive for eight years and with Dairy Crest for 23 years. 
Shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational 
Incentive Award to the Chief Executive outside the approved Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy at the extraordinary general meeting held in 
December 2014. As a result the award was granted following the EGM 
and vests three years from grant in December 2017 , subject to the 
achievement of stretching performance conditions. Further details of 
this award are given in the report under ‘Scheme interests awarded 
during the ﬁnancial year’. We consulted with a number of our key 
shareholders prior to the EGM, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank investors for their input and engagement during 
this process, and for their subsequent support at the EGM.
2014/15
The positive transaction for Dairy Crest highlighted above takes 
place against a backdrop of challenging trading and economic 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
conditions for the business this year, which is reﬂected in our 
incentive payouts in relation to 2014/15.
The Dairy Crest annual bonus incorporates stretching short term 
ﬁnancial targets and personal objectives. This year’s bonus 
payments reﬂect a challenging year where bonus targets for proﬁt 
and net debt were not met, resulting in lower payments of 18.75% of 
salary for Mark Allen, 15.63% for Martyn Wilks and 18.75% for Tom 
Atherton.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’) 2012 
had a three-year performance period to March 2015. Against the 
TSR performance measure (60% of the award), the Company 
achieved 34.7% growth, however, the Company did not achieve the 
minimum Adjusted EPS target threshold (40% of the award). This 
resulted in 20.8% of awards vesting under this award.
Under the Long Term Alignment Plan (‘LTAP’), our Executives are 
measured against a set of strategic Key Performance Indicators 
supported by a 3 year performance measure relating to dividend 
performance. For the 2014/15 ﬁnancial year, the LTAP grant will be 
69.2% of basic pay for the Executive Directors, which reﬂects a 
consistent performance by Dairy Crest against the backdrop of a 
difﬁcult market. As the 2014/15 grant level was determined based on 
performance against the scorecard over the previous ﬁnancial year, 
we have provided full details of the outcomes against these 
measures in this report. This is contained towards the end of the 
report just before ‘Statement of Implementation of policy in the 
following ﬁnancial year’. Grants under the LTAP will vest in two equal 
tranches four years and ﬁve years after grant, subject to the dividend 
and dividend cover maintenance performance condition being met.
Board changes
Martyn Wilks left the Board on the 31 March 2015, and I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank Martyn for his contribution 
throughout the seven years he was on the Board. Further 
information on the termination pay arrangements in place for Martyn 
can be found on page 53 of this report.
2015/16
2015/16 is expected to be a challenging year in light of the 
transaction and related signiﬁcant restructuring activity required. As 
the timing of the transaction is unclear and dependent on the 
relevant competition approvals, the Committee has reviewed the 
2015/16 annual bonus performance measures. This is to ensure that 
for this year, during this critical period of transition, the targets 
appropriately assess performance and recognise the contribution of 
our people. As a result of this review, the Committee has determined 
that the proﬁt before tax measure will be replaced with an adjusted 
operating proﬁt measure, to enable the Committee to assess the 
underlying performance of the business over the year, excluding 
property disposals and the impact of interest payments over the 
period which will be abnormally impacted by the anticipated 
transaction. In addition, the net debt measure is to be replaced with 
a cashﬂow measure to provide a more relevant assessment of 
performance over the period and the target will be calibrated to 
exclude the anticipated cash receipt as a result of the transaction. 
Finally, part of the 2015/16 annual bonus will be paid depending on 
the successful completion of the transaction. This approach is being 
applied to all bonus scheme participants and the Committee 
believes that it is important to incentivise and reward employees 
appropriately for their part in achieving this deal. However, to ensure 
that the greater proportion of the Executive Directors’ bonuses 
continue to be based on speciﬁc ﬁnancial measures, this element 
will comprise a much lower proportion of the bonus for them 
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am 
pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the 
2014/15 financial year. 
The Dairy Crest remuneration 
policy continues to be based upon 
a core set of principles which 
support the strategic and financial 
ambitions of the Company:
 The remuneration package should support a performance 
based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align 
executives’ and shareholders’ interests.
 The remuneration structure is both uncomplicated and 
transparent, and we remain committed to open disclosure.
 The measures used for incentive plans reﬂect the strategic 
priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future 
success of the Company.
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy (‘Policy’) with 96% support. A copy of the 
Policy is included after this statement for ease of reference. The 
full Policy as approved by shareholders is available on our website.
Chairman’s statement 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
compared with other employees. This change is consistent with the 
approved Policy. The maximum bonus potential for Executive 
Directors will remain at 100% of salary.
In reviewing our bonus, we have also made a substantive change to 
how we will implement the Policy. We have introduced clawback and 
malus clauses to our bonus, applying to awards made relating to 
2015/16 and future ﬁnancial years. These will allow both cash and 
share bonus awards to be reduced in the three years after the award 
is made. This is intended to protect the Company and its 
stakeholders against the most serious events, which may only come 
to light after a period of time. This does not constitute a change to 
Policy.
As referenced in last year’s remuneration report, Tom Atherton’s 
promotion to Group Finance Director was at a salary level 
signiﬁcantly below the market rate, but with a clear plan for 
enhanced salary adjustments in line with increasing experience and 
good performance in the role. I am pleased to conﬁrm that further to 
an on-going review of Tom’s performance his salary has been 
increased by 15.4% to £300,000 p.a. This reﬂects our ongoing 
intention to move him to a market median positioning as his 
experience in role grows. It is therefore anticipated that subject to his 
continued strong performance, Tom will receive further appropriate 
increases such that his salary positioning is in the market median 
range against FTSE 250 CFOs. No salary increase will be awarded 
to Mark Allen in 2015 (he last received an increase in his basic salary 
in 2011). The Committee intends to conduct a review of Mark’s 
salary in January 2016.
This report
Following the high level of support received for our 2013/14 
remuneration report, the Committee decided to make minimal 
changes to the layout of the report to provide consistency for our 
readers. We have included a copy of our full Policy report, which was 
approved at the 2014 AGM, but this is not being put to a shareholder 
vote this year as we have made no changes to the Policy. Other than 
the one-off Transformational Incentive Award previously mentioned, 
we have operated fully within the Policy this year. 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Richard Macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
(approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM)
Directors’ remuneration Policy
We seek to ensure that the remuneration packages contribute to the 
delivery of long term shareholder value. This is reﬂected in the 
Company’s annual bonus scheme and long term alignment plan, 
which are explained in more details below. The Committee received 
shareholder approval of the following Policy at the Annual General 
Meeting on 15 July 2014 to cover the period from 1 April 2015 to the 
2017 AGM.
Future policy table
The remuneration structure for Executive and Non-executive 
Directors (who are paid only fees and receive no additional beneﬁts) 
at Dairy Crest, and the underlying principles on which each element 
of the package is based are set out below.
Directors’ remuneration policy
How the element 
supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum opportunity under the element
Performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Base salary
Reﬂect assessment 
of market practice 
based on role and 
experience.
Benchmarked against executives with 
similar responsibilities in companies of 
comparable size and complexity, in 
particular the constituent companies of 
the FTSE 250 index (excluding ﬁnancial 
services).
Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments 
during the year.
Reviewed annually and any changes are 
in the ordinary course effective from 1st 
July.
Increases will normally be broadly in line with 
inﬂation and the wider employee population.
The Committee retains the ﬂexibility to award 
higher base salary increases and to position 
salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Crest 
remains competitive in the market, and to take 
into account an individual’s personal 
performance and experience in the role – as 
such the Committee may apply increases over 
time as appropriate to achieve alignment with 
market levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a 
change in role or responsibility.
Not applicable. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 47
Governance
How the element 
supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum opportunity under the element
Performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Pension
Provide a market 
competitive level of 
provision with 
appropriate ﬂexibility 
whilst minimising risk 
to the Group.
There is a deﬁned contribution scheme 
and/or salary supplement in place. No 
further service accrual under ﬁnal salary 
pension scheme from 1 April 2010.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive employer 
contributions up to Annual Allowance plus cash 
supplements. Total beneﬁt will not exceed 23% 
of salary.
Martyn Wilks receives a cash supplement of 
23% of salary.
Not applicable.
Beneﬁts
Provide market-
competitive beneﬁts.
Includes company car beneﬁt, life 
assurance cover, permanent health 
insurance and medical insurance.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the 
beneﬁts on a monthly basis, or as 
required for one-off events.
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to add to or remove these 
beneﬁts as required.
All Executives receive a company car/car 
allowance and private medical insurance, 
commensurate with market levels.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive life 
insurance cover of 7 x annual salary.
Martyn Wilks receives life insurance cover of 4 x 
annual salary.
Not applicable.
Bonus
Ensure that annual 
reward is consistent 
with successfully 
achieving the short 
term ﬁnancial targets 
and strategic 
objectives of the 
Group.
To deliver an appropriate balance 
between long term and short term 
reward, any bonus earned over 50% of 
annual salary is deferred into shares (see 
below). The remainder is paid as cash.
The cash element of the bonus is paid 
three months after the end of the ﬁnancial 
year to which it relates.
Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Target award: 50% of salary.
Threshold award: 0% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to 
increase the maximum award to 150% of salary 
in exceptional circumstances. The Committee is 
not aware of any such circumstances and so 
does not currently expect to make awards above 
the maximum of 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the 
ﬁnancial year.
Metrics used to determine performance under 
the bonus will be based on a mix of ﬁnancial, 
operational and personal measures.
The Committee has the ﬂexibility to vary the 
performance measures and weighting of 
metrics under this plan.
Deferred bonus
Deliver appropriate 
balance between 
long term and short 
term reward and to 
build up Directors’ 
shareholdings in line 
with Policy.
Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is 
deferred for three years, conditional on 
continued employment until vesting date.
Delivered in shares. Participants will 
normally be entitled to an amount, payable 
in shares, on vesting equal in value to the 
dividends payable on deferred bonus 
shares over the deferral period.
Policy maximum award: 50% of salary 
(maximum potential deferral).
In the exceptional event the Remuneration 
Committee exercises discretion to award a 
bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus earned 
above 50% of salary would be deferred into 
shares.
None. Value growth is achieved only through 
change in share price, and dividend 
equivalents paid.
Long Term 
Alignment Plan 
Encourage and 
reward continuing 
improvement in the 
Group’s performance 
over the longer term.
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Measures identiﬁed 
are central to Dairy 
Crest’s strategy and 
are considered by 
Directors in 
overseeing the 
operation of the 
business.
Annual grant of share awards.
Awards will be subject to a phased 
vesting requirement, with 50% of the 
award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 5 
following grant.
Participants will normally be entitled to an 
amount on vesting, paid in shares, equal 
in value to the dividends payable on 
shares awarded.
The Board may at any time up to and on 
vesting reduce the number of shares that 
vest, should material misstatement or 
misconduct occur.
Maximum award: 90% of salary.
If performance falls below a minimum level 
against the scorecard no award will be made.
Achievements over the prior year against a 
pre-grant performance scorecard comprising 
measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic 
priorities.
The Committee has ﬂexibility to amend the 
relevant measures, weightings and KPIs which 
determine the size of the awards granted. The 
weighting of ﬁnancial KPIs in determining 
annual grant levels will be at least 60% of the 
scorecard.
Vesting is subject to continued employment.
The level of vesting may be reduced 
dependent on a dividend underpin over the 
ﬁrst three years of the vesting period.
An amount of the award proportional to the 
percentage decrease in dividend may be 
clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 
50%. If the decline exceeds 50%, the 
Committee will use its discretion to determine 
the proportion of the award that shall vest. In 
such circumstances not more than 50% of the 
award will vest. 48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
How the element 
supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum opportunity under the element
Performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Long Term 
Alignment Plan
Continued
  
Dividend cover must be maintained in a 
speciﬁc range over the three-year 
measurement period. The Remuneration 
Committee retains discretion to reduce the 
vesting of awards as appropriate should 
dividend cover be outside this range. The 
dividend cover range will be determined by the 
Committee annually, and may be adjusted if 
the Committee determines this to be 
appropriate.
Shareholding 
requirement
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Directors are encouraged to build a 
shareholding in the Company. Such 
shareholdings exclude unvested options 
under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan 
and include unvested deferred shares 
granted to Executive Directors as part 
payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP 
awards.
Directors who have not achieved the 
minimum shareholding requirement will 
be encouraged to retain 50% of any 
shares released under the deferred 
bonus/LTAP until the required level of 
shareholding is reached.
The shareholding requirement for Executive 
Directors is 200% of salary.
Not applicable.
Non-executive 
Directors’ fees
Remunerates 
Non-executive 
Directors and 
attracts Non-
executive Directors of 
suitable calibre.
Benchmarked against Non-executive 
Directors with similar responsibilities in 
companies of comparable size and 
complexity.
The remuneration of the Non-executive 
Chairman is determined by the Board 
following recommendations from the 
Remuneration Committee and Chief 
Executive. The remuneration of 
Non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Board following recommendations 
from the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee having consulted with an 
external adviser and the Chief Executive.
The total fees for Non-executive Directors 
remain within the limit of £600,000 set out in the 
Articles of Association.
Not applicable.
Provisions of previous Policy that will continue to apply – award made 2012
Long Term 
Incentive Share 
Plan
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Annual grant of share awards.
Three-year vesting period.
Annual limit – 150% of salary. 60% subject to three-year relative TSR 
performance against a comparator group 
comprising FTSE 250 constituents (as at the 
grant date) (excluding ﬁnancial service 
companies, real estate companies and 
investment trusts).
40% subject to three-year Adjusted EPS 
growth targets.
Notes on Policy table and components of remuneration
Performance measures and targets
Measures for incentive plans reﬂect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company. Targets 
are set by reference to budgeted ﬁnancials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth outcomes.
Differences in remuneration for all employees
The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan. The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with 
speciﬁc measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTISP arrangement. A smaller group of senior management 
now participates in the LTAP at a reward level appropriate to their role.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these 
individuals into consideration when discussing packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not speciﬁcally ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors, but any 
comments received are taken into account. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 49
Governance
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in 
the role.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the 
appointment of an Executive Director. Any new Director’s remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the 
same constraints as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below:
Component Policy and principles
Base salary and 
beneﬁts
The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract 
the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with 
reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Company’s ability to pay.
Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the 
Company. Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation/hotel 
cost, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household items. In addition, the Committee may grant additional 
support as appropriate.
Other beneﬁts provided will be aligned to those set out on pages 46 to 48.
Pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the deﬁned contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and a cash supplement 
payment above this. Total beneﬁt will not exceed 23% of Basic Salary.
Annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
The Policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances. Any bonus over 
50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
Long term 
incentives
The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long Term Alignment Plan at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 90% of salary.
Associated performance measures would apply as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
Replacement 
awards
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period 
than the awards forfeited from a new recruit’s previous employer.
In determining quantum and structure of replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the value taking into account, as far as 
practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of remuneration forgone. The Committee has the ﬂexibility to use cash and/or 
shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
Service contracts and Policy on payment for loss of ofﬁce
Service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
Executive Director Date of commencement of contract Notice period
M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months
M Wilks 7 January 2008 12 months
T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months
Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015.
Executive Directors’ service agreements are available on the Company’s website www.dairycrest.co.uk.
Non-executive Director Letters of appointment Notice period
A Fry 15 July 2009 3 months
A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months
R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months
S Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months
S Farr 6 October 2011 3 months
Anthony Fry left the Board on 17 September 2014.
It is the Company’s Policy that Non-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years. A template Non-executive 
Director’s letter of appointment is available on the Company’s website. 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
External Appointments
Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties 
can broaden their experience and skills which will beneﬁt the Company. External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and 
reported to the Board. Any external appointment must not conﬂict with a Director’s duties and commitments to Dairy Crest. Fees may be 
retained by Directors for such appointments.
Termination Policy
The Remuneration Committee’s approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual 
circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules 
(including relevant performance conditions).
The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Director service contract and Policy on payment for loss of ofﬁce.
Component Policy and principles
Notice period 12 months’ notice from Company.
12 months’ notice from Director.
Compensation for 
loss of ofﬁce in 
service contracts
Up to 12 months’ salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in 
the notice period.
Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical beneﬁts, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary 
representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
Under the terms of Mark Allen’s contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items – annual salary, 
beneﬁts, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period. This will not be the Company’s Policy going forward for other 
Executive Directors.
Under the terms of Martyn Wilks’ contract, payments on termination are calculated as annual base salary, beneﬁts and pension contribution, 
half of which would be paid on termination and the remainder paid in six equal monthly instalments.
Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of ofﬁce for Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in 
settlement of potential legal claims. This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment 
protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions. The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable 
reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as 
deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of beneﬁts for a limited period.
Treatment of 
unvested deferred 
bonus awards 
under plan rules
If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, 
deferred shares may be released on termination.
Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
Treatment of 
unvested long term 
incentive plan 
awards under plan 
rules
Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date 
with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting. Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the 
award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other 
factors the Committee consider relevant.
A proportion of the LTAP award will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time
Exercise of 
discretion
Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide 
ﬂexibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee’s determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Director’s departure and the recent 
performance of the Company.
Change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance 
condition has been satisﬁed.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee. Deferred bonus awards would normally 
be released in full.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any 
outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions 
remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any 
reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of ofﬁce. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 51
Governance
Illustration of application of remuneration Policy (updated for 2015)
A signiﬁcant proportion of a Director’s total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of speciﬁed short term and 
long term business objectives. The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance 
scenarios for the Executive Directors.
Director 
i
Value of package (£000s)
M Allen
T Atherton
i Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015
Notes to the scenarios: 
Fixed: This element comprises salary as of 1 April 2015 (1 May 2015 for T Atherton), pension beneﬁts (including salary supplement) and other 
ﬁxed beneﬁts (company car, etc) as per the last known number. 
Annual variable Remuneration: This element shows annual bonus (including any amount deferred) at 100% of salary in the maximum 
scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario.
Long term Variable Remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP , at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario and 
70% of salary in the target scenario. No allowance is made for share price growth, in accordance with the requirements of the disclosure rules.
Statement of consideration of shareholders views
The Board consulted with several larger shareholders on the proposal to grant the one-off Transformational Incentive Award (TIA) to the Chief 
Executive. Further details are set out on pages 55 to 56. 
The Committee discusses matters relating to Directors’ remuneration with major investors on an on-going basis and takes into account any 
comments which are received.
Single total ﬁgure of remuneration – subject to audit
The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director. An explanation of how the ﬁgures are calculated follows the table. 
The total remuneration for each Director reﬂects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the 
on-going success of the Company.
Director   Base salary/fees   Taxable beneﬁts   Bonus   LTISP 
iii
  Pension 
iv
  Total
(£’000s)   2014/15  2013/14   2014/15  2013/14   2014/15  2013/14   2014/15  2013/14   2014/15  2013/14   2014/15  2013/14
Non-executive 
Chairman
S Alexander 103 43 – – – – – – – – 103 43
Executive Directors
M Allen 518 518 29 28 97 423 178 159 119 119 941 1,247
M Wilks 
i
346 346 19 22 54 261 119 106 80 80  618 815
T Atherton 250 183 25 13 47 149 24 21  58 42 404 408
Non-executive 
Directors
A Carr-Locke 43 43 – – – – – – – – 43 43
A Fry 
ii
111 155  43 – – – – – – – 154 155
R Macdonald 48 48 – – – – – – – – 48 48
S Farr 40 38 – – – –  – – – –  40  38
i Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015.
ii Anthony Fry left the Board on 17 September 2014. Taxable beneﬁts relate to medical costs supported by Dairy Crest. The base salary ﬁgure includes a £39k payment 
in lieu of notice.
iii For 2014/15, the values included are for the 2012 LTISP and have been calculated using the average middle market price during the ﬁnal quarter of 2014/15. Awards 
will vest on 1 July 2015. Should an Executive Director leave employment before 1 July 2015, vesting will be dependent upon the individual being considered as a 
good leaver under the scheme rules. For 2013/14, the values included are the actual value of the shares which vested under the 2011 LTISP.
iv Pension amounts include employer’s pension contribution and salary supplement. Base salary, bonus and LTISP are deﬁned on pages 46 to 48. 
Annual report on remuneration
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750
41%
52%
28% (1,649)
28%
31%
20%
100%
(1,287)
(666)
0 125 250 375 500 625 750 875 1000
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
41%
52%
28% (964)
(754)
(394)
28%
31%
20%
100%
Key:          Fixed Remuneration             Annual Variable Remuneration             Long term Variable Remuneration  52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Notes
Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus entitlement which includes deferred bonus shares for 2013/14. No deferred bonus 
shares were awarded in 2014/15. 
Taxable beneﬁts are valued at the taxable value, and include company car/car allowance and private medical insurance.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of Non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee 
member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling £45k (2014: £43k).
Additional requirements in respect of the single total ﬁgure table – subject to audit
Performance against targets for annual bonus
Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short term ﬁnancial targets and personal objectives. To ensure that an 
appropriate balance is maintained between long term and short term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the 
Company’s shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Bonus payouts for the 2014/15 performance year are set out below:
Measure Details
Maximum 
potential as a 
% of salary
   
Proﬁt before tax Stretching targets based on budget, with a sliding scale between 
threshold and maximum
60% 0%0%0%
Net debt Stretching targets based on budget, with a sliding scale between 
threshold and maximum
15% 0%0%0%
Personal 
objectives
A range of non-ﬁnancial operational and strategic objectives will be 
assessed by the Committee, with an appropriate award level set under 
this element with reference to the overall performance of the business.
25% 18.75% 15.63% 18.75%
Total – 100% of 
salary
18.75% of 
salary = £97k
15.63% of 
salary = £54k
18.75% of 
salary = £47k
Deferred into 
shares
– ––––
Group adjusted profit before tax decreased by 7.2% in the year resulting in no award.
Net debt increased by £56m in the year resulting in no award.
Targets for 2014/15 have not been disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that they provide to the 
Company’s competitors.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 
Awards under the LTISP 2012 had a three-year performance period to 31 March 2015. 40% of the total award was based on the Group’s 
Adjusted EPS and 60% was measured against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 (excluding ﬁnancial services companies, real estate 
companies and investment trusts). 
Measure Threshold Maximum Outcome
Vesting  
(as % award 
granted in 2012) Number of shares
Value (as shown in 
Single total ﬁgure of 
remuneration)
TSR performance 
against FTSE 250 
constituents (60% 
of total LTISP 
award)
Median (30% of TSR 
award vests)
Upper quartile or 
above (100% of TSR 
award vests)
73/150 34.7% 67 ,153 £321,119
EPS target (40% of 
total LTISP award)
RPI + 1% p.a. over 
the three year 
performance period 
(30% of EPS award 
vests)
RPI + 5% p.a. over 
the three year 
performance period 
(100% of EPS award 
vests)
Threshold level not 
achieved
0% 0 0
Overall outcome 20.8% 67,153 £321,119
Outcome as a % of salary
M Allen M Wilks T Atherton Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 53
Governance
Current position on outstanding LTAP awards – not subject to audit
The outstanding LTAP awards are subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made. The award may be reduced 
by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the decline exceeds 50%, the 
Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 – 2.5 over the three-year measurement period. 
Total pension entitlements – subject to audit
Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund (a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme) to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued 
pension during the year other than inﬂationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010. Mark Allen decided to draw beneﬁts from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual 
pension. Mark Allen and Tom Atherton were members of the deﬁned contribution scheme throughout 2014/15. The Company made 
contributions up to the £40,000 limit for employee and employer contributions. Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash 
supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary. Martyn Wilks was not a member of any Company pension 
scheme in the year ended 31 March 2015 and received a salary supplement of 23% of basic salary.
Payments for loss of ofﬁce – subject to audit
Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015. The payments for loss of ofﬁce to be made to Martyn Wilks are as follows:
Termination payment
The termination payment to Martyn Wilks on leaving employment was calculated in accordance with the provisions of his service contract, 
which entitled him to an amount based on his salary, non-cash beneﬁts and pension beneﬁts over one year. An amount of £218,794 
representing half of this termination payment was paid on termination. An amount of £1,430 was paid for legal fees associated with Martyn 
Wilkes’ termination of employment.
Deferred bonus
All outstanding deferred bonus shares were released to Martyn Wilks comprising 18,267 shares (including on vesting additional shares in 
respect of dividends paid).
Long term incentives
Martyn Wilks has outstanding awards under the LTAP 2013 and LTAP 2014. These will be pro-rated up to termination and released on the 
normal vesting dates, subject to achievement against the dividend performance measure over the period. As he was with the Company for the 
full performance period of the 2012 LTISP, the estimated value of shares vesting is included in the single total ﬁgure above. He will receive the 
shares vesting under this award in full with no pro-ration on the normal vesting date.
Payments to past Directors – subject to audit
In the year, Alastair Murray received £92,860 from the vesting of the 2011 LTISP (based on his vested award of 17,794 shares). £92,000 was 
disclosed in the single ﬁgure table in the 2013/14 report representing an estimate of Mr Murray’s vested award and based on the average 
share price for the last quarter of that ﬁnancial year. 54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Scheme interests awarded during the ﬁnancial year – subject to audit
LTAP 2014 award 
The award made under the LTAP in 2014 was made on 16 December 2014. The award level is determined based on achievements over the 
prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising of measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic priorities. Outcomes 
against the 2014 scorecard are summarised in the second table below, and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in 
which decisions were made is included thereafter. Note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the ﬁrst three years of the vesting 
period and will be settled through nil cost share options.
Director
Level of award % of 
salary Face value £000s
Percentage vesting at 
threshold performance Number of shares End of vesting period
Mark Allen 80% 414 N/A 84,406 50% at December 2018
50% at December 2019
Martyn Wilks 80% 277 N/A 56,464 50% at December 2018
50% at December 2019
Tom Atherton 80% 176 N/A 42,397 50% at December 2018
50% at December 2019
Determination of 2014 grant and performance assessment:
Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting Outcome
1. Proﬁt Adjusted EBITDA target each year. Delivery of proﬁt is core to the business 
and supports the progressive dividend 
Policy.
30% 23%
2. Balance sheet 
efﬁciency
ROCE target each year whilst 
maintaining net debt/EBITDA in the 
1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on 
investment within a sustainable level of 
gearing.
20% 17%
3. Corporate 
Activity & 
Efﬁciencies
Delivery of annual cost savings targets.
Delivery of synergies and return on 
investment following acquisitions or 
successful divestments (when relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on 
an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major acquisitions/ 
divestments deliver against relevant 
synergy and return targets.
15% 15%
4. Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and 
three years versus markets in which they 
operate.
Brand growth is key to longer term 
business growth.
15% 5%
5. Innovation Achieve each year the targeted 
proportion of revenue from innovation in 
previous three years.
Innovation is a key driver of productivity 
and growth.
10% 6%
6. Corporate 
Responsibility
A range of metrics including 
improvements in accident incident rates, 
reduced CO
2 
emissions & improved 
employee engagement.
Delivering results in a sustainable way 
which enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement.
10% 8%
Total 74%
For Executive Directors 
this converts to an award 
of 80% of salary
1. Proﬁt Weighting: 30%. Outcome: 23%
The Remuneration Committee assessed proﬁt performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA performance in 2013/14 showed considerable improvement in what continued to be a challenging market. Milk prices remained high, 
resulting in a c£45m increase in costs that had to be recovered. Developments in the retail sector and the increased prominence of 
discounters led to further pressures being applied to the Dairies business.
The Remuneration Committee considered that against this context, the adjusted EBITDA outcome showed a good performance and awarded 
23% on this basis. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 55
Governance
2. Balance sheet efﬁciency   Weighting: 20%. Outcome: 17% 
The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efﬁciency for FY 2012/13 through the assessment of ROCE performance (calculated 
based on average operating assets) against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%. As last year, the 
Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing (being net debt/EBITDA) remain 
below 2.0 times. 
ROCE for the year of 13.8% was ahead of the long term 12% target. This result represented a good performance against our balance sheet 
efﬁciency objectives and resulted in an award of 17%
3. Corporate Activity & Efﬁciencies  Weighting: 15%. Outcome: 15%
Given no major M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings. Against a target of £20 million the 
Group made savings of £25 million. This resulted in a full award being made against this component.
4. Brand Growth  Weighting: 15%. Outcome: 5%
The key brand performance was mixed. Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth below the market albeit both FRijj and Country 
Life both performed better in the second half of the year. Cathedral City continues to signiﬁcantly outperform the market. Although longer-term 
data shows three of our four key brands outperforming the market, we believe an award of 5% is appropriate given the importance of brand 
growth in the current environment.
5. Innovation  Weighting: 10%. Outcome: 6%
Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from 
product innovation over the previous three years. In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be 
considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue. 
Achieving 4% of Group revenue and 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as showing 
some progress against this component, albeit not in line with the Group’s challenging targets. As a result, an award of 6% was considered 
appropriate.
6. Corporate Responsibility  Weighting: 10%. Outcome: 8%
We have made good progress on health and safety during the year but certain other targets with respect to landﬁll avoidance and employee 
engagement were not met. However, we were the highest scoring company in BITC’s CR index with 4.5 out of 5.0. This measures a range of 
Corporate Responsibility criteria consistent with our LTAP measures and therefore an award of 8% is considered appropriate. 
Dividend underpin
The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2014 – March 2017 is not met.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the 
decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest. In such 
circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a speciﬁc range over the three-year measurement period. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range. 
Chief Executive one-off Transformational Incentive Award 
At the EGM held in December 2014, shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational Incentive Award (‘TIA’) to Mark Allen.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the retention of Mark Allen and his leadership are critical to the business now and will remain so 
over the subsequent transformational years. The Committee therefore sought the approval of shareholders at the EGM to enable the grant to 
Mark Allen of a one-off TIA outside the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
The Committee considers that this additional award will ensure that Mr Allen is appropriately incentivised and rewarded for the achievement of 
key objectives that are central to Dairy Crest’s transformation; is aligned with the interests of our Company and shareholders; and that by 
supporting his retention, it reduces risk during a critical period.
The key terms of the TIA, on which the Committee consulted the Company’s largest shareholders, are detailed below: 
 The grant of a nil cost option to acquire Ordinary Shares was made to Mark Allen following the EGM. The option is exercisable three years 
after grant (in December 2017) to the extent that the stretching performance conditions set in relation to the award are achieved (as 
described below).
 The grant was made under rules of the LTISP which were approved by shareholders in 2006 – this is the long term incentive operated by 
Dairy Crest prior to the introduction of the LTAP. No further awards are intended to be made under the LTISP. 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
 The award is structured as a base award over Ordinary Shares having a market value at grant equivalent to 75% of Mark Allen’s base salary. 
A multiplier of between 0 and 3 times the number of Ordinary Shares subject to the base award will be applied to it at the end of the three 
year vesting period depending on the level of performance achieved. The face value of the award is therefore £1,165.5k
 The Committee will determine the level of vesting of the TIA based on performance objectives which are intended to be demanding. In 
measuring performance in this regard, the Committee has identiﬁed three categories of objectives on which the assessment of performance 
will be based. These relate to the restructuring of the business and its future success, as follows:
 – managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies operations, requiring strong leadership and a high level of 
personal involvement from a chief executive ofﬁcer as an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole 
through a period of extended uncertainty;
 – appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process; and
 – establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the 
delivery of value to shareholders.
 The objectives set by the Committee include both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial objectives. Where appropriate, the Committee will set a 
performance range against which threshold, target and stretch performance will be measured. 
 In addition to the objectives themselves, the Committee will assess the quality of execution of the objectives, including, in particular, in 
relation to risk, sustainability and shareholder value.
 At the end of the three year performance period, the Committee will assess the sum of the evaluations of the individual objectives to 
determine the total level of vesting of the TIA and may exercise discretion to reduce the level of vesting when reviewing Dairy Crest’s 
performance in the round, including the level of value delivered to shareholders over the period.
 The TIA only commenced in December 2014 but in that three month period Mark Allen has made signiﬁcant progress in:
 – engaging all key stakeholders in the sale of the Dairies business resulting, with respect to competition approval, in a UK Competition and 
Markets Authority review of the transaction
 – the restructuring of the Dairy Crest business into two separate divisions ensuring appropriate category focus and delivery of performance
 – leading major communication channels with employees, suppliers, customers and other interested parties ensuring clear communication of 
Dairy Crest’s strategy during the pre-transformation period
 – leading the new Whey/GOS development which is on plan to deliver expected outcomes and enhance shareholder value
 Updated objectives and performance against the objectives will be disclosed in each Directors’ Remuneration Report for each of the three 
ﬁnancial years during the performance period and full disclosure of the performance levels achieved (including the multiplier applied and 
vesting level) will be set out in the directors’ remuneration report for the ﬁnancial year in which the performance period ends. It is intended 
that the annual update provided to shareholders on the objectives and performance assessment will become more detailed over the course 
of the performance period. The Committee has chosen this approach because the timing of the competition approval process for the sale 
of the Dairies operations is not within the Company’s control and, recognising also the commercial sensitivity in relation to the future 
development of Dairy Crest, the ability to disclose anything more than summary information in advance is limited. 
 In line with best practice requirements under the Corporate Governance Code, the TIA is subject to malus and clawback provisions set by 
the Committee. 
 Leaver and change of control provisions are as prescribed under the LTISP rules. 
Shareholder dilution
In accordance with the guidelines set by the Investment Association (‘IA’), the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its share 
plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to 
employees under all its share plans. Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue (as newly issued shares or from treasury) 5% of its 
issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans. Currently 7.1% of issued shares have been made under share 
plans, with 1.7% under discretionary or executive schemes.
Statement of Director’s shareholdings and share interests – subject to audit
Executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end would normally retain 
50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved. Shareholdings exclude unvested 
options under the LTISP and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP 
awards. Mark Allen has satisﬁed the shareholding requirement. Tom Atherton has not met the requirement and will continue to grow his 
shareholding. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 57
Governance
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
Director
 
Number of shares 
owned outright 
(including connected 
persons)
 
LTISP 2012 
iii
 
Unvested LTAP 
2013 shares 
iv
 
Unvested LTAP 
2014 shares 
v
 
Unvested  
TIA shares 
vi
 
Deferred 
annual bonus 
shares 
vii
 
SAYE 
viii
M Allen 167,663 37,220 83,879 85,484 240,623 36,874 5,595
M Wilks 
i
62,396 24,899 56,112 57 ,185 – 18,267 5,595
T Atherton 6,097 5,034 32,410 42,939 – 13,793 4,787
A Carr-Locke 2,000 –– ––
R Macdonald 1,000 –– ––
S Alexander 1,000 –– ––
S Farr 4,465 – – – –
A Fry 
ii
3,000 –– ––
i Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015.
ii Anthony Fry left the Board on 17 September 2014 (interests in shares as at this date).
iii Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2012 (nil cost share options): The performance period ended on 31 March 2015 and awards will vest on 1 July 2015. Amounts shown 
are numbers of shares which will vest.
iv Long term Alignment Plan 2013 (nil cost share options): The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2016. 50% of awards will vest on 
15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018. Amounts shown include grant and options related to ‘reinvested’ dividends to the date of this Report.
v Long term Alignment Plan 2014 (nil cost share options): The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2017. 50% of awards will vest on 
15 December 2018 and 50% will vest on 15 December 2019. Amounts shown include grant and options related to ‘reinvested’ dividends to the date of this Report
vi One-off transformational award to the Chief Executive (nil cost share options): The performance period will end on 23 December 2017 and awards will vest shortly 
after. Amounts shown include grant and options related to ‘reinvested’ dividends to the date of this Report.
vii Deferred bonus scheme (nil cost share options).
viii Save As You Earn Scheme 2012 (cost options). The exercise price for these options is 281 pence per share and the exercise period is 3/2016–9/2016. Save As You 
Earn Scheme 2014 (cost options). The exercise price for these options is 376 pence per share and the exercise period is 9/2017–2/2018. There are no applicable 
performance conditions.
There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 31 March 2015 and 20 May 2015.
Gain on exercise of share options
Director   Number of options exercised   Market value at exercise date   Gain on exercise of share options
M Allen 21,180 £106,048 £106,048
M Wilks 14,191 £71,054 £71,054
T Atherton 2,451 £12,272 £12,272
Performance graph and table
The graph below sets out for the six years ended 31 March 2015 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTSE 250 
index (excluding investment companies) of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest – Total Shareholder Returns for £100 invested
FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment companies)
Dairy Crest Group plc
March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15
80
100
120
140
160
180 58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Chief Executive’s pay 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Total remuneration 
(£’000s)
1,018 888 904 937 1,247 941
Annual bonus (% max) 94% 54% 50% 52.5% 81.7% 18.8%
Long term incentive 
vesting (% max)
0% 0% 0% 0% 23.5% 20.8%
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below sets out the percentage change in the Chief Executive’s salary, beneﬁts and bonus between 2013/14 and 2014/15, compared 
with the percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for the relevant members of the salaried clerical, 
administrative, supervisory and management population allocated to Hay bands, which comprises 24% of the total workforce and has been 
identiﬁed as the most appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements:
 Salary Taxable beneﬁts Bonus
2014/15 2013/14 % change 2014/15 2013/14 % change 2014/15 2013/14 % change
Chief Executive (£’000s) 518 518 0% 29 28 3% 97 423 -77%
Average pay for wider 
employee population 
(£’000s)
41 41 1% 4.9 5.2 -7% 1.1 5.4 -79%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 
2013/14 and 2014/15:
£m 2014/15 2013/14 % change
Employee remuneration 
costs
144.0 157 .0 -8.3%
Dividends 29.2 28.5 2.5%
LTAP 2015 award
The award made under the LTAP 2015 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising 
measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic priorities. This award will be granted later in 2015. Outcomes against the 2015 scorecard are 
summarised in the second table below and detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is 
included thereafter. Note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the ﬁrst three years of the vesting period. 
Director Level of award % of salary Face value £’000s End of vesting period
Mark Allen 69.2% 358 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
Tom Atherton 69.2% 207 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 59
Governance
Determination of 2015 grant and performance assessment:
Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting Outcome
1. Proﬁt Adjusted EBITDA target each 
year.
Delivery of proﬁt is core to the 
business and supports the 
progressive dividend Policy.
30% 2.5%
2. Balance sheet 
efﬁciency
ROCE target each year whilst 
maintaining net debt/EBITDA in 
the 1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on 
investment within a sustainable 
level of gearing.
15% 2.5%
3. Corporate Activity & 
Efﬁciencies
Delivery of annual cost savings 
targets.
Delivery of synergies and return 
on investment following 
acquisitions or successful 
divestments (when relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are 
delivered on an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major 
acquisitions/divestments deliver 
against relevant synergy and 
return targets.
15% 15%
4. Brand Growth Key brand value growth over 
one and three years versus 
markets in which they operate.
Brand growth is key to longer 
term business growth.
20% 12%
5. Innovation Achieve each year the targeted 
proportion of revenue from 
innovation in previous three 
years.
Innovation is a key driver of 
productivity and growth.
10% 8%
6. Corporate 
Responsibility
A range of metrics including 
improvements in accident 
incident rates, reduced CO
2
 
emissions & improved 
employee engagement.
Delivering results in a 
sustainable way which 
enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement.
10% 8%
Total 48%
For Executive Directors this 
converts to an award of 69.2% 
of salary
1. Proﬁt  Weighting: 30%. Outcome: 2.5%
The Remuneration Committee assessed proﬁt performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA in 2014/15 was below prior year in what continued to be a very challenging market. Our Dairies business has faced very strong 
competition in liquid milk markets and sharp falls in commodity realisations. Our branded business performed relatively well in a deﬂationary 
market, but overall the Group failed to achieve the challenging EBITDA target it set for itself.
This weaker than expected adjusted EBITDA outcome, resulted in an award of 2.5%.
2. Balance sheet efﬁciency  Weighting: 15%. Outcome: 2.5% 
The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efﬁciency for FY 2013/14 through the assessment of ROCE performance (calculated 
based on average operating assets) against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%. As in previous years, the 
Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing (being net debt/EBITDA) remain 
below 2.0 times. 
A ROCE for the year of 11.5% was behind of the long term 12% target but above the vesting level for this element. 2014/15 was a year of 
signiﬁcant capital expenditure at Davidstow to support future demineralized Whey and galacto-oligosaccharide production. However, returns 
will not start to be generated until 2015/16 and this reduces ROCE in 2014/15. The outturn of 11.5% is at the bottom of the vesting range. With 
a year-end gearing of 2.0 times, at the top end of the range, the Remuneration Committee awarded only 2.5% for this LTAP element.
3. Corporate Activity & Efﬁciencies  Weighting: 15%. Outcome: 15%
Given no major completed M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings. The Group has, once 
again, considerably exceeded its £20m cost saving target and the full award of 15% has been made for this measure.
4. Brand Growth  Weighting: 20%. Outcome: 12%
The key brand performance was mixed. Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth ahead of the market in 2014/15 when all sales 
channels were considered, with Cathedral City continuing to signiﬁcantly outperform the market, Clover increasing market share and FRijj 
sales up 7%. Longer-term data showed two of our four key brands outperforming the market. On this basis the Remuneration Committee 
decided an award of 12% was appropriate.
5. Innovation  Weighting: 10%. Outcome: 8%
Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from 
product innovation over the previous three years. In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be 
considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue.  60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Against the challenging targets set, delivering 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as 
showing both good progress against this component and a competitive positioning to the market. The Committee also considered the 
on-going innovation in the non-branded area of the business with increasing use of environmentally friendly light-weighted polybottles. As a 
result, an award of 8% was made for this element.
6. Corporate Responsibility  Weighting: 10%. Outcome: 8%
We have again made good progress on health and safety with reducing accidents and days lost and showed positive improvement against 
our environmental targets. Dairy Crest achieved the maximum 5 star rating in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, further improving on an 
impressive assessment in 2014. However, an employee survey was not undertaken in the year, and some quality customer complaint targets 
were not met. On balance across these various CR measures, the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 8% as appropriate. 
Dividend underpin
The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2015 – March 2018 is not met.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the 
decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest. In such 
circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a speciﬁc range over the three-year measurement period. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range. 
Statement of implementation of Policy in the following ﬁnancial year
The Directors’ remuneration Policy will be implemented for the 2015/16 ﬁnancial year as follows:
Base salary – £’000s
Role 2014/15 Change to base salary as at 1 April 2015:
Mark Allen 518 No change
Tom Atherton * 260 300 (effective from 1 May 2015)
* Tom Atherton was brought onto the Board at a salary level below the market lower quartile for his role. In line with the Remuneration Committee’s intent as stated in 
the 2013 Remuneration Report, he has been awarded an increase for 2015 to bring his salary closer towards a market competitive level. The 15.4% increase reﬂects 
our ongoing intention to move Mr Atherton to a market median positioning as his experience in role grows. It is therefore anticipated that subject to his continued 
strong performance, Mr Atherton will receive further appropriate increases such that his salary positioning is in the market median range against FTSE 250 CFOs.
Non-executive Directors’ fees – £’000s
Role 2014/15 Effective 1 April 2015
Non-executive Chairman 155 155
Non-executive Director 
(base)
38 38
Audit Committee Chair +5 +5
Corporate Responsibility 
Chair
+5 +5
Remuneration Committee 
Chair
+5 +5
Senior Independent 
Director
+5 +5
Fees for Non-executive Directors have remained unchanged since the 2011/12 ﬁnancial year.
Bonus measures
Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the 2015/16 bonus remains at 100% of salary.
Performance will be assessed against the following measures:
 Operating proﬁt – 45% of award
 Free cash ﬂow – 10% of award
 Personal objectives – 15% of award
 Measure in relation to the success of the sale of the Dairies operations – 30% of award
Given the signiﬁcance of the sale of the Dairies operations, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the performance measures of 
the bonus scheme to ensure appropriate alignment in this year of change. Accordingly, the proﬁt before tax and net debt targets have been 
changed to Operating Proﬁt excluding Property Sales and Free Cash Flow, respectively. In addition, a measure relating to the sale of Dairies 
has been included. These changes reﬂect the strategic objectives of the Company at this critical phase in its evolution. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 61
Governance
The targets for the 2015/16 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the 
Company’s competitors.
Malus and clawback provisions will be introduced in respect of the 2015/16 and subsequent bonus awards. The malus provision will apply to 
the deferred share awards up to vesting. The clawback provision will apply to the cash award for three years from the date of payment. 
Clawback may be operated in the event of gross misconduct on the part of the employee and/or material misstatement in Company or Group 
ﬁnancial statements.
LTAP 2016 award 
A grant will be made in 2016 under the LTAP, in line with the disclosed Policy. As the grant will be based on a scorecard of metrics assessed 
over the 2015/16 ﬁnancial year, below we set out the scorecard which will determine the grants made in 2016. We have included the 2015/16 
KPIs on which performance will be assessed and the associated alignment to strategy. We have not included speciﬁc targets on the KPIs, as 
the targets are considered commercially sensitive. The outcomes for this award will be disclosed in the 2015/16 Directors Remuneration 
Report.
Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting
Proﬁt Adjusted EBITDA target Delivery of proﬁt is core to the business and 
supports the progressive dividend policy
30%
Balance Sheet Efﬁciency ROCE target whilst maintaining net debt/
EBITDA in the 1-2 range
Ensuring acceptable return on investment 
within a sustainable level of gearing
20%
Corporate Activity and 
Efﬁciences
Delivery of annual cost savings targets
Delivery of synergies and return on 
investment following acquisitions or 
successful divestments (when relevant)
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an 
on-going basis
Ensuring that major acquisitions/
divestments deliver against relevant 
synergy and return targets
15%
Brand Growth Key brand growth over one and three years 
versus the markets in which they operate
Brand growth is key to longer term 
business growth
20%
Revenue Growth through 
Innovation
Achieve each year, the targeted proportion 
of revenue from innovation in previous three 
years
Innovation is a key driver of productivity and 
growth
10%
Corporate Responsibility Range of metrics aligned to the 40 pledges 
including improvements in accident 
incident rates, reduced CO
2 
emissions and 
improved/maintained BITC score
Delivering results in a sustainable way 
which enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement
5%
Measures and KPIs for 2015/16 are consistent with 2014/15 and support the long term strategy of the Group. However certain weightings 
have been adjusted to reﬂect changes in relative priorities over the next 12 months. The LTAP maintains a minimum 60% weighting of ﬁnancial 
KPIs within the 2015/16 scorecard.
Sharesave Scheme 
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors. Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a 
three-year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of £500 per month (new maximum level with effect from 1 April 
2014). At the end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price ﬁxed at the time of the option grant. 
Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the market price at the time of grant.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration
Members of the Remuneration Committee
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of Non-executive Directors of the Company. During the year the Committee consisted of:
 Stephen Alexander (Chairman until 3 November 2014);
 Richard Macdonald (Chairman from 3 November 2014); 
 Andrew Carr-Locke; and
 Sue Farr.
Anthony Fry, Company Chairman (until leaving the Board on 17 September 2014), Stephen Alexander in his capacity as Company Chairman 
(effective from 17 September 2014) and Mark Allen, Chief Executive attended the Remuneration Committee by invitation. Members of the 
Remuneration Committee have no potential conﬂicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day 
running of the Company.
The Committee’s activities during the ﬁnancial year
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad Policy with respect to senior executives’ salary and other remuneration. It 
speciﬁcally determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and 
reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives. A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee 
can be found on the Company’s website. 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
In 2014/15, the Committee met 9 times. Details of attendance are shown on page 37 and the Committee discussed, amongst others, the 
following matters: 
Meeting Agenda items discussed
April 2014 Conﬁrmation of Termination Provision for Executive Service Agreement
May 2014 Approval of 2013/14 Bonus, LTAP & LTISP outcomes
Approval of 2014/15 Bonus, LTAP Targets
Executive Directors Remuneration
Approval of Remuneration Report
July 2014 Executive Directors Remuneration
November 2014 
(2 meetings)
Executive Directors Remuneration
January 2015 Review of Terms of Reference for Remuneration Committee
Changes in Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report – Updates to Reporting
February 2015 Review of Bonus Scheme Rules 2015/16
March 2015 Review of Bonus Scheme Rules 2015/16
Review of Draft Remuneration Report
Review of potential bonus and long term Incentive outcomes
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to provide advice on executive remuneration. PwC have 
provided such advice historically, and were originally appointed through a competitive tendering process. 
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and 
market practice, and providing remuneration benchmarking information for Executive Directors. PwC have also supported the Remuneration 
Committee in the design and operation of the TIA. In this ﬁnancial year, they were paid £90,700 based on agreed hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including corporate tax advice, share plans support, and 
programme management support. 
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May 
each year. It is satisﬁed that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and has signed up to that group’s Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration Policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR 
Director of Dairy Crest. The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation, but is not present at any discussions relating speciﬁcally to his 
own remuneration.
Statement of voting at General Meeting
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2013/14 remuneration report at the 2014 AGM.
Number of votes cast For Against Withheld
56,146,521 52,490,948
93.49%
3,655,573
6.51%
14,384,844
The table below shows the binding vote on the 2013/14 remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM.
Number of votes cast For Against Withheld
70,936,887 68,099,552
96.00%
2,837,335
4.00%
44,478
The Committee believes the votes in favour of the remuneration report and Policy demonstrate the strength of support of shareholders for the 
executive remuneration arrangements at Dairy Crest. 
The Directors’ remuneration report from pages 45 to 62 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by
Richard Macdonald
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
20 May 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 63
Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Companies Act 2006 (‘CA 2006’) together with the UK Listing 
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (‘DTRs’) and Listing 
Rules (‘LRs’) require certain disclosures to be made. The Strategic 
report and the Corporate Governance report at pages 4 to 31 and 
pages 35 to 44 respectively, together with the details at pages 32 
and 33 of the Directors in ofﬁce at the date of this Annual Report 
are expressly incorporated into this, the Directors’ Report.
Going concern: The Group and Company’s business activities, 
together with factors likely to affect future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from 
pages 4 to 31. The ﬁnancial position, cash ﬂows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on 
pages 28 to 31 (which also form part of the Strategic report). In 
addition, Notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and 
Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its ﬁnancial risk management objectives; details of its 
ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk. As highlighted in Note 30, the 
Company and Group meet day-to-day working capital 
requirements through syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash 
to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating 
headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature at 
least 12 months after the year end. At 31 March 2015, effective 
headroom was £180.7 million. There were no breaches of bank 
covenants in the year ended 31 March 2015 and projections do not 
indicate any breaches in the foreseeable future. Having reviewed 
and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors are 
satisﬁed that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Future developments: Future developments are described in the 
Strategic report at pages 4 to 31.
Group results: The Group’s consolidated income statement set 
out on page 71 shows a proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year of £20.5 million 
compared with £50.2 million proﬁt in 2013/14.
Dividends: the Directors are recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 
15.7p (2013/14: 15.4p) per ordinary share, which if approved, will be 
paid to members whose name appears on the register at the close 
of business on 3 July 2015. Together, the ﬁnal dividend and interim 
dividend (6.0p per ordinary share paid on 29 January 2015) make 
total dividends for the year of 21.7p per ordinary share (2013/2014: 
21.3p).
Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of 
this Report are set out at pages 32 to 33.
Directors’ interests: Details of the interests in the shares of the 
Company of the Directors holding ofﬁce at the date of this Report, 
along with those of the Directors who held ofﬁce during the year 
but retired or resigned from ofﬁce, and their immediate families 
appear in the Remuneration Report on page 57. Details of the 
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment appear in 
the Remuneration Report on page 49. No Director had a material 
interest in any signiﬁcant contract with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries during the year. Procedures for dealing with Directors’ 
conﬂicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively. The 
Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Ofﬁcers 
and those of its subsidiaries. The Directors, Company Secretary 
and other Ofﬁcers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are 
indemniﬁed by the Company to the extent permitted by company 
law. That indemnity provision has been in place during the year 
and remains in force.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor: So far as each 
Director in ofﬁce at the date of approval of this Report is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
External Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware. Each of the Directors 
has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have 
taken in order to (i) make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and (ii) establish that the External Auditor is aware of 
such information. For the purposes of this statement on disclosure 
of information to the External Auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is 
the information needed by the Company’s External Auditor in 
connection with the preparation of its report at pages 67 to 70.
Political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were 
made or incurred during the year.
Financial instruments: Details of the use by the Company and 
its subsidiaries of ﬁnancial instruments and any related risk 
management objectives and policies (including hedging policy) and 
exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash 
ﬂow risk (of the Company in connection with such ﬁnancial 
instruments) can be found at Note 30 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Research and development: The Group has adopted a target of 
delivering 10% of its annual turnover through new product 
development. Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide 
product mix, and especially the development of lower fat variants 
of existing products. Dairy Crest remains at the forefront of dairy 
industry developments to reduce packaging waste through 
innovation.
Employees: At the end of March 2015, the Group employed 
approximately 4,100 people. It depends on the skills and 
commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives. 
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest 
possible contribution to Dairy Crest’s success. Details of the 
Group’s employment policies can be found on pages 8 and 9. 
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them 
and on issues affecting the Group’s performance through a variety 
of communication tools, including the Group intranet. Regular 
employee surveys enable an understanding of, amongst other 
matters, the general satisfaction level of employees with their 
employment, any questions or concerns which employees have in 
relation to the business of the Group, an understanding of the 
effectiveness of management of and communication with 
employees. Following employee surveys, speciﬁc action plans are 
drawn up and implemented on a site by site basis to address 
issues which are raised through the surveys. Ordinarily, the senior 
management team conducts road shows which all employees are 
invited to attend. They provide a forum for, amongst other matters, 
the communication to employees of the performance of the 
business of the Group, anticipated future developments, signiﬁcant 
matters of required focus for the coming period, and the 
opportunity for employees to ask questions of senior management. 
In light of the proposed sale of the Dairies business, road shows 
have been temporarily put on hold. The Group has well-established 
consultation and negotiating arrangements with established trade 
unions. Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group 
through participation in the savings-related share option scheme 
(‘Sharesave Scheme’).  64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED
Details of the Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the ﬁnancial 
statements.
Share capital: The authorised and issued share capital of the 
Company together with details of movements in the Company’s 
issued share capital during 2014/15 are shown in Note 24 to the 
ﬁnancial statements at page 106. As at the date of this report, 
137,767,777 ordinary 25p shares were in issue and fully paid with 
an aggregate nominal value of £34,441,944.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s Reports and 
Accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings of the 
Company; to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. To be 
effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting 
instructions must be received at the Company’s registered ofﬁce, 
or such other place in the United Kingdom speciﬁed in the relevant 
notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General 
Meeting. None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. There are no known arrangements under 
which ﬁnancial rights are held by a person other than the holder of 
the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share 
transfers or on voting rights. Shares acquired through Company 
share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue 
and have no special rights.
Transfer of shares: Subject to applicable statutes and 
regulations, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on 
the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior 
approval of any transfers.
Shareholder waiver of dividends: The Company established an 
employee beneﬁt trust in 1996 which in certain circumstances 
holds shares in connection with the Group’s employee share 
incentive plans. As the registered holder, the voting rights in the 
shares are exercisable by the trustee. However, the trustee does 
not ordinarily exercise those rights and waives its entitlement to 
dividends.
Issue of shares: At the AGM on 15 July 2014, shareholders 
renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise 
all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £22,786,896.
Purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 15 July 2014, 
shareholders granted the Company authority to make market 
purchases of up to 13,672,275 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 
pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid 
for any such ordinary share is 25 pence (exclusive of expenses and 
appropriate taxes); the maximum price (exclusive of expenses and 
appropriate taxes) which may be paid for any such ordinary share 
shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market 
prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial List for the ﬁve business 
days immediately preceding the date of purchase. The Company 
did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market 
purchases. Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the 
contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and 
which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, 
the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this year’s 
AGM. The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of 
the above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with 
suitable alternatives, annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought 
from the shareholders at this year’s AGM to renew the authorities 
for a further year.
Substantial shareholdings: As at 31 March 2015, the Company 
had been notiﬁed in accordance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of 
the following interests of 3% or more in the Company’s existing 
issued ordinary share capital.
 
Notiﬁed No. of 
shares
Notiﬁed 
percentage of 
issued share 
capital
Invesco Limited 6,934,355 5.007
UBS Investment Bank/UBS Group AG 5,333,753 3.890
During the period 1 April 2015 to 20 May 2015 the Company has 
been notiﬁed by UBS Investment Bank/UBS Group AG of a holding 
of 3.996% of the Company’s issued share capital.
Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be 
approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in 
force from time to time.
Signiﬁcant agreements – change of control: A change of 
control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a 
number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries 
are party, to take effect, alter or terminate. The agreements that are 
considered signiﬁcant are as follows: 
Borrowing facilities – Non-compliance with the change of control 
clauses in the Group’s funding arrangements, or failure to reach 
agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any 
acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Supply agreements – Certain supply agreements contain 
provisions whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may 
be terminable. Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could 
result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for 
certain materials.
No compensation for loss of ofﬁce: The Company does not 
have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment resulting from a 
takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share schemes 
and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees 
under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors. 
Most employees in the Group are employed by the Company’s 
main subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited. Relevant companies within 
the Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations 
on 1 April 2013. Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April 
2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension 
arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into 
the Group’s deﬁned contribution pension scheme also provided by 
Zurich. The Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension fund is closed to 
future accrual and is now in run-off. It remains under the control of 
a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the 
board of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest 
Limited and three directors elected by all members. Its assets are 
held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in 
accordance with the rules of the fund. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 65
Governance
Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to state 
the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, 
including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility. 
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2015 and 
the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out 
on pages 23 to 27 and form part of the Directors’ report 
disclosures.
Directors’ responsibility statements: The responsibility 
statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 
are set out on page 66.
Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds 
LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 14 July 
2015 at 12.00 pm. The Notice convening the meeting will be issued 
separately, together with details of the business to be considered 
and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being 
proposed.
Auditor: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue as Auditor of the Company. A resolution to reappoint 
Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s Auditor will be put to the 
forthcoming AGM.
The Directors’ Report from pages 63 to 65 has been approved by 
the Board and is signed on its behalf by
Robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel
20 May 2015 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group’s 
and Company’s ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Group and Company for 
that period. In preparing the ﬁnancial statements the Directors are 
required to:
 present fairly the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and 
cash ﬂows of the Group and Company;
 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 
insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
ﬁnancial position of the Group and Company and performance 
of the Group; 
 state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the ﬁnancial statements; and
 make judgements and estimates that are responsible and 
prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the ﬁnancial position of the Group and of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate 
Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 Statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set 
out on pages 32 to 33 conﬁrms that to the best of his/her 
knowledge, they have complied with the above requirements in 
preparing the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the 
ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities 
and ﬁnancial position of the Group and Company and of the 
Group’s income statement and the Company’s proﬁt for that 
period. In addition, each of the Directors conﬁrms that the 
management report represented by the Directors’ Report includes 
a fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group and Company, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Allen Chief Executive
Tom Atherton Group Finance Director
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION 
TO THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 67
The numbers
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAIRY CREST GROUP plc
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion: 










What we have audited 




















Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor








Our application of materiality 































 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015


















Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements















The scope of our audit 
















Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and 
responses to those risks



 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 69
The numbers
Area of focus
Response
Cross Reference 
to AR page/note
Accounting for promotional accruals, including 
the impact of revenue recognition

















































Assessing the carrying value of non-current 
assets










































(New in 2015) Accounting for the conditional 
disposal of the Dairies operations
















































Classiﬁcation of items as exceptional





























 70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015





Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006







Matters on which we are required to report by exception

































Alison Duncan 













 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 71
The numbers
    2015   2014
  Note
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Group revenue 1 1,329.8 – 1,329.8  1,391.0 – 1,391.0 
Operating costs 2,4   (1,279.1) (36.3) (1,315.4)  (1,334.7) (10.2) (1,344.9)
Other income – property 3   17.6 – 17.6   18.2 – 18.2 
Proﬁt/(loss) on operations    68.3 (36.3) 32.0   74.5 (10.2) 64.3 
Finance costs 5   (8.1) – (8.1)  (9.9) (0.2) (10.1)
Other ﬁnance expense – pensions 20   (1.8) – (1.8)  (0.3) – (0.3)
Share of associate’s net proﬁt 14   – – –   0.3 – 0.3 
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax    58.4 (36.3) 22.1   64.6 (10.4) 54.2 
Tax (expense)/credit 6   (8.2) 6.6 (1.6)  (9.4) 4.0 (5.4)
Proﬁt/(loss) from continuing operations     50.2 (29.7) 20.5   55.2 (6.4) 48.8 
Proﬁt from discontinued operations 29   – – –   – 1.4 1.4 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders  
 
50.2 (29.7) 20.5 
 
55.2 (5.0) 50.2 
The prior year comparatives include discontinued operations that were a result of the disposal of the St Hubert business in August 2012 (see 
Note 29). The post-tax proﬁt relating to discontinued activities is further analysed in Note 29.
  Earnings per share  
2015 2014
 
  Basic earnings per share
on proﬁt for the year (pence)
8 15.0 36.8
 
  Diluted earnings per share
on proﬁt for the year (pence)
8 14.9 36.4
 
  Basic earnings per share 
from continuing operations (pence)
8 15.0 35.8
 
  Diluted earnings per share
from continuing operations (pence)
8 14.9 35.3
 
  Adjusted basic earnings per share
from continuing operations (pence)*
8
38.0 40.8
 
  Adjusted diluted earnings per share
from continuing operations (pence)*
8 37.7 40.3
 
  Basic earnings per share
from discontinued operations (pence) 8 – 1.0
 
  Diluted earnings per share
from discontinued operations (pence) 8 – 1.0
 
  Dividends  
2015 2014
 
  Proposed ﬁnal dividend (£m) 7 21.6 21.0  
  Interim dividend paid (£m) 7 8.2 8.0  
  Proposed ﬁnal dividend (pence) 7 15.7 15.4  
  Interim dividend paid (pence) 7 6.0 5.9  
* Adjusted earnings per share calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The calculations exclude exceptional 
items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme, the latter being dependent upon market 
assumptions at 31 March each year.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Year ended 31 March 2015 72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Year ended 31 March 2015
    Note  
2015
£m
 
2014
£m
Proﬁt for the year      20.5   50.2
          
Other comprehensive income to be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss in subsequent years:            
Cash ﬂow hedges – reclassiﬁcation adjustment for (losses)/gains in income statement       (16.1)  20.0
Cash ﬂow hedges – gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income       15.0   (18.8)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income   6   0.2   (0.3)
       (0.9)  0.9
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss in subsequent years:            
Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans   20   4.3   (49.6)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income   6   1.7   8.7
       6.0   (40.9)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the year, net of tax      5.1   (40.0)
Total comprehensive gain for the year, net of tax      25.6   10.2
All amounts are attributable to owners of the parent.             Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 73
The numbers
CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEETS
At 31 March 2015
     Consolidated   Parent Company
  Note
 
2015
£m
 
2014
£m
 
2015
£m
 
2014
£m
Assets          
Non-current assets          
Property, plant and equipment 10   328.5   288.6   – –
Goodwill 11   74.3   74.3   – –
Intangible assets 12   25.6   27.9   – –
Investments 13   0.5   0.3   482.8   482.1
Investment in associate using equity method 14   –   0.8   – –
Deferred consideration 14   –   1.4   – –
Deferred tax asset 6   – –  0.2   0.2
Financial assets – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 17   14.7   7.0   14.7   5.4
     443.6   400.3   497.7   487.7
Current assets          
Inventories 15   199.7   219.6   – –
Trade and other receivables 16   95.3   118.4   0.4   10.5
Financial assets – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 17   –   0.4   – –
Cash and short-term deposits 18   50.6   67.3   0.2 –
     345.6   405.7   0.6   10.5
Total assets 1  789.2   806.0   498.3   498.2
           
Equity and Liabilities          
Non-current liabilities          
Financial liabilities – Long-term borrowings 19   (263.0)  (179.7)  (158.2)  (144.2)
   – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19   (1.9)  (6.2)  (1.9)  (6.2)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 20   (41.4)  (57.7)  – –
Deferred tax liability 6   (11.1)  (11.4)  – –
Deferred income 22   (6.2)  (7.8)  – –
     (323.6)  (262.8)  (160.1)  (150.4)
Current liabilities          
Trade and other payables 21   (168.1)  (218.3)  (40.0)  (3.8)
Financial liabilities – Short-term borrowings 19   –   (26.5)  –   (25.3)
   – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19   (0.2)  (2.0)  –   (2.0)
Current tax liability     (2.8)  (3.6)  (0.1)  (0.1)
Deferred income 22   (1.6)  (1.7)  – –
Provisions 23   (3.1)  (1.7)  – –
     (175.8)  (253.8)  (40.1)  (31.2)
Total liabilities    (499.4)  (516.6)  (200.2)  (181.6)
           
Shareholders’ equity          
Ordinary shares 24   (34.4)  (34.2)  (34.4)  (34.2)
Share premium 24   (79.8)  (77.6)  (79.8)  (77.6)
Interest in ESOP 25   0.1   0.6   – –
Other reserves 25   (51.4)  (52.3)  (156.5)  (156.1)
Retained earnings     (124.3)  (125.9)  (27.4)  (48.7)
Total shareholders’ equity    (289.8)  (289.4)  (298.1)  (316.6)
Total equity and liabilities    (789.2)  (806.0)  (498.3)  (498.2)
Mark Allen Chief Executive
Tom Atherton Finance Director
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the directors on 20 May 2015. 74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 31 March 2015
Attributable to owners of the parent
2015
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2014 34.2 77.6 (0.6) 52.3 125.9 289.4 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 20.5 20.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (1.1) – (1.1)
Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan – – – – 4.3 4.3 
Tax on components of other comprehensive income – – – 0.2 1.7 1.9 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (0.9) 6.0 5.1 
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (0.9) 26.5 25.6 
Issue of share capital 0.2 2.2 – – – 2.4 
Exercise of options – – 0.5 – (0.6) (0.1)
Share-based payments – – – – 1.7 1.7 
Equity dividends – – – – (29.2) (29.2)
At 31 March 2015 34.4 79.8 (0.1) 51.4 124.3 289.8 
2014 
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 (0.6) 51.4 145.0 307.4 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 50.2 50.2 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – 1.2 – 1.2 
Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan – – – – (49.6) (49.6)
Tax on components of other comprehensive income – – – (0.3) 8.7 8.4 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – 0.9 (40.9) (40.0)
Total comprehensive gain – – – 0.9 9.3 10.2 
Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 – – – 0.2 
Shares acquired by ESOP – – (1.1) – – (1.1)
Exercise of options – – 1.1 – (1.4) (0.3)
Share-based payments – – – – 1.5 1.5 
Equity dividends – – – – (28.5) (28.5)
At 31 March 2014 34.2 77.6 (0.6) 52.3 125.9 289.4 
 * Further details are provided in Note 25. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 75
The numbers
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 31 March 2015
2015
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2014 34.2 77.6 142.7 (0.6) 14.0 48.7 316.6 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – 8.3 8.3 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Tax on components of other comprehensive 
income – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (0.3) – 8.3 8.0 
Issue of share capital 0.2 2.2 – – – – 2.4 
Share-based payments – – – – 0.7 (0.4) 0.3 
Equity dividends – – – – – (29.2) (29.2)
At 31 March 2015 34.4 79.8 142.7 (0.9) 14.7 27.4 298.1 
2014
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 142.7 (1.1) 12.8 52.2 318.2 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – 24.7 24.7 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – 0.7 – – 0.7 
Tax on components of other comprehensive 
income – – – (0.2) – – (0.2)
Other comprehensive gain – – – 0.5 – – 0.5 
Total comprehensive gain – – – 0.5 – 24.7 25.2
Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 – – – – 0.2 
Share-based payments – – – – 1.2 0.3 1.5 
Equity dividends – – – – – (28.5) (28.5)
At 31 March 2014 34.2 77.6 142.7 (0.6) 14.0 48.7 316.6 
 * Other reserve represents the share-based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 13). 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Year ended 31 March 2015
    
Consolidated   Parent Company
  Note
 
2015
£m
 
2014
£m
 
2015
£m
 
2014
£m
Cash generated from/(used in) from operations 32 35.3 (13.8) – –
Interest paid (10.5) (14.0) – –
Taxation repaid – 2.1 – –
Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) from operating activities 24.8 (25.7) – –
Cash ﬂow from investing activities   
Capital expenditure (80.1) (58.8) – –
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 22.5 32.5 – –
Purchase of businesses and investments 29 (0.1) – – –
Sale of businesses 29 4.0 – – –
Amounts received from subsidiaries – – 54.4 172.9
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (53.7) (26.3) 54.4 172.9
Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities   
Repayment and cancellation of loan notes (27.4) (159.4) (27.4) (159.4)
Net drawdown under revolving credit facilities 69.0 36.0 – –
Dividends paid 7 (29.2) (28.5) (29.2) (28.5)
Proceeds from issue of shares (net of issue costs) 24 2.4 0.2 2.4 0.2
Purchase of shares by ESOP – (1.4) – –
Finance lease repayments 33 (1.8) (3.7) – –
Net cash generated/(used in) ﬁnancing activities 13.0 (156.8) (54.2) (187.7)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (15.9) (208.8) 0.2 (14.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33 67.3 276.1 – 14.8
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 33 (0.8) – – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33 50.6 67.3 0.2  –
Net debt at end of year 33 (198.7) (142.2) (144.1) (171.7) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 77
The numbers
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Year ended 31 March 2015
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis. They are presented in sterling 
and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million (£ million) except 
where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union (‘EU’). The separate Company ﬁnancial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to 
publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the 
Directors are satisﬁed that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements. See the Going Concern 
Statement on page 63 of the Directors’ Report.
Areas of estimation 
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signiﬁcant risk 
of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are (i) the measurement of 
the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment (ii) the measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme 
assets and obligations (iii) the calculation of promotional discount 
accruals and (iv) the estimation of tax costs in France in relation to 
the sale of St Hubert.
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual 
basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
goodwill. This requires estimation of future cash ﬂows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate. See Note 11.
The Group tests whether intangible assets, property, plant and 
equipment are impaired where there are indications that there is a 
risk of impairment. This requires an estimation of the value in use of 
the cash-generating units in which these assets reside. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
assets. This requires estimation of future cash ﬂows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group tested the intangible 
assets, property, plant and equipment of the Dairies cash-
generating unit for impairment due to indicators of impairment being 
present. In assessing for impairment, consideration was taken of the 
future cash ﬂows on an ongoing basis and also the impact of the 
potential disposal of the Dairies operations to create a risk weighted 
value in use calculation of the cash-generating unit. Three key 
assumptions in performing the test included the projected value and 
timing of cash ﬂows from property sales, the allocation of corporate 
costs and the projected proﬁt growth. The result of the test was that 
no impairment was required; however the headroom was low and 
therefore sensitive to the above assumptions. See Note 10.
(ii) The Group recognises and discloses its retirement beneﬁt 
obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational 
requirement of IAS 19 ‘Retirement Beneﬁt Obligations’. The 
calculations include a number of judgements and estimations in 
respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, 
inﬂation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life 
expectancy, amongst others. Changes in these assumptions can 
have a signiﬁcant effect on the value of the retirement beneﬁt 
obligation. See Note 20.
(iii) The Group accrues for agreed promotional funding. Accruals for 
promotional funding are calculated based on an estimated 
redemption rate of the promotion. The redemption rate used is 
dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers known 
historical data on the performance of that mechanic. Management 
considers this to be an area of judgment which is dependent on the 
customer mix and promotion mechanic. 
(iv) The sale of St Hubert will result in tax payable in France both on 
the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend payments made to 
the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the date of disposal in 
August 2012. An estimate has been made of the likely tax costs 
resulting from these transactions however the ﬁnal assessment has 
yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities, which may result in 
a change to the level of tax provisioning.
Areas of judgment
The key areas where judgment has been applied are (i) classiﬁcation 
of the Dairies operation (ii) the timing and nature of exceptional costs 
and (iii) the judgment that for IFRS 8 purposes only one segment 
should be reported on.
(i) On 6 November 2014, the Group announced the sale of its Dairies 
operations to Müller, subject to approval of the relevant competition 
authorities. The Dairies operation has not been classiﬁed as held for 
sale at the balance sheet date because, due to it being conditional 
upon CMA approval, it was not deemed to meet the “highly 
probable” criteria under IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations’.
(ii) Items of a material, one-off nature, which result from a 
restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance 
are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement as 
exceptional. Management consider this to be an area of judgment 
due to the assumptions made around the timing and nature of 
exceptional costs.
(iii) Following the restructure of the Group to a single operating unit in 
2013, management has judged that the Group comprises one 
segment under IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. However, certain 
product group information is provided voluntarily to assist the user of 
the accounts.
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and 
sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the ﬁnancial 
statements.
Changes in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IAS 16 – Improvement to IAS 16: Property, Plant and Equipment 
(effective 1 July 2014)
IAS 38 – Improvement to IAS 38: Intangible Assets (effective 1 July 
2014)
IAS 24 – Improvement to IAS 24: Related Party Disclosure (effective 
1 July 2014)
IFRS 13 – Improvement to IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement 
(effective 1 July 2014) 78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC)
IFRIC 21 – Levies (effective 13 June 2014)
The application of these standards has had no material impact on 
the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year 
ended 31 March 2015. 
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and 
interpretations (with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial 
statements):
IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards 
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
ﬁnancial statements in the period of initial application.
Consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each 
year using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany balances 
and transactions, including unrealised proﬁts and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. The separable net 
assets, both tangible and intangible, of the newly acquired subsidiary 
undertakings are incorporated into the ﬁnancial statements on the 
basis of the fair value as at the effective date of control, if appropriate. 
Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the ﬁnancial 
year are included in the ﬁnancial statements up to the effective date 
of disposal. Where a business component representing a separate 
major line of business is disposed of, or classiﬁed as held for sale, it 
is classiﬁed as a discontinued operation. The post-tax proﬁt or loss 
of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on the 
face of the income statement, separate from the other results of the 
Group.
Interest in associates 
The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for under the 
equity method of accounting. Associates are entities over which the 
Group exerts signiﬁcant inﬂuence. The Company and its associates 
use consistent accounting policies. The investment in associates are 
carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets, less any impairment in 
value and any distributions received. The consolidated income 
statement reﬂects the share of the post-tax results of associates. 
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates’ 
other comprehensive income, the Group recognises its share of 
such changes and discloses this, where applicable in other 
comprehensive income. 
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc 
and its subsidiaries is Sterling (£). 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional 
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on 
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where 
recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ﬂow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of 
exchange for the year (being an approximation of actual exchange 
rates). Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less 
exchange differences on borrowings, which ﬁnance or provide a 
hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 
component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions 
are met. Exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a 
foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, 
at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is 
calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, plant 
and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period 
of the lease
Ofﬁce equipment: 4 to 6 years
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down 
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in 
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash ﬂows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income 
statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic beneﬁts are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year that it is derecognised. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the 
period they occur. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 79
The numbers
Investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for 
impairment where appropriate.
Business Combinations and Goodwill
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, 
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The 
choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value 
or at the proportionate share of acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets will 
be determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition 
costs incurred are expensed in the income statement.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of 
the acquisition (see above) less net identiﬁable amounts of the assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business 
combination. 
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. All goodwill was 
tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no 
impairment was identiﬁed.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition 
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not 
subsequently amortised.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
beneﬁt from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss 
on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this 
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the 
operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit 
retained.
The Group’s cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering 
goodwill, are ‘Dairies’ (fully impaired), ‘Spreads’, ‘MH Foods’ and 
‘Cheese’. These represent the lowest level at which goodwill is 
monitored.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been 
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the 
business sold.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can 
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected 
economic beneﬁts ﬂow to the Group. Following initial recognition, the 
carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either ﬁnite 
or indeﬁnite. Currently, all the Group’s intangible assets have ﬁnite 
useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 15 years on a straight line 
basis. Acquired intangible assets comprise acquired brands, 
principally the Frylight brand which was considered to have a useful 
life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, 
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. 
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software 
development expenditure. Software development is carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven 
years on a straight line basis. Internally generated intangible assets 
that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit level or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may be impaired.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as 
required by IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of its 
recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired 
and is written down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an 
individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inﬂows 
that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of 
assets.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a ﬁrst in ﬁrst 
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing 
each product to its present location and condition. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business 
less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An 
estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full 
amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when 
identiﬁed.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned 
above, net of bank overdrafts.
Interest bearing loans
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the 
fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. After 
initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement. Gains 
and losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 
when the liabilities are derecognised. 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Net debt
The Group and Company deﬁne net debt as interest bearing loans 
and borrowings and ﬁnance leases less cash and cash equivalents. 
The calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to 
ﬁx foreign currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as 
cash ﬂow hedges. In this case the ﬁxed Sterling debt, not the 
underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt. 
It includes any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups 
classiﬁed as held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility 
fees.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a deﬁned 
beneﬁt scheme and a deﬁned contribution scheme.
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme
The net asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect 
of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme is the fair value of scheme 
assets less the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the 
balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost. 
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past service 
cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in 
future contributions to the scheme. Where the Group is considered 
to have a contractual obligation to fund the scheme above the 
accounting value of the liabilities, an onerous obligation is 
recognised as an unrecoverable notional surplus. The deﬁned 
beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full to the 
statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
The Company has closed its deﬁned beneﬁt scheme and therefore 
no current service costs are required to be charged to income 
statement. Past service costs are recognised in the income 
statement at the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or 
curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises related 
restructuring costs. 
Scheme administration costs that are not directly related to 
investment activities are charged to the income statement. 
Administration costs that are directly related to investment are 
recognised as part of the re-measurement exercise through the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
The net interest charge is calculated by applying the discount rate to 
the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability or asset.
Deﬁned contribution scheme
These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation to 
the Group. Members of these schemes will contribute a percentage 
of their salary into the scheme and the Company will pay an 
additional amount into the scheme. The size of an individual’s 
pension on retirement is based on the performance of the asset 
portfolio and is not linked to salary. Company contributions to the 
scheme are charged to the income statement in the same period as 
services are rendered by the relevant employee. 
Share-based payments
Equity-settled performance payments
The Group and Company have issued equity instruments for which 
they receive services from employees in consideration for these 
equity instruments. Equity-settled share-based payment schemes 
are measured at fair value at the grant date using an appropriate 
pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is 
taken of any service and performance (vesting conditions), other 
than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the 
Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are 
required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled 
to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like 
market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over 
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees became fully entitled to the award. At each balance sheet 
date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated; 
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since 
the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income 
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisﬁed, 
provided that all other performance or service conditions are 
satisﬁed.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a 
non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is 
not met), it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, 
and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the 
award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity 
instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the 
Company’s balance sheet.
Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share 
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at 
shareholders’ equity. Consideration received from the sale of such 
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised in 
the consolidated income statement.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to apply 
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ only to awards made after 7 
November 2002.
Leased assets
Assets acquired under ﬁnance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and beneﬁts incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. The net present value of future lease rentals is 
included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest element of 
lease rentals is charged to the income statement in the year. Leases 
where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and beneﬁts of 
ownership of the asset are classiﬁed as operating leases. Operating 
lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 81
The numbers
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods 
net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. 
Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals and overriding 
discounts. The Group accrues against agreed promotional funding 
and agreed customer terms. The redemption rate used is dependent 
on the promotional mechanic and considers known historical data 
on the performance of that mechanic and is adjusted for actual 
performance. The overriding discounts are calculated as a 
proportion of the level of customer sales in the period. 
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
Other income
Other income comprises the proﬁt on disposal of closed depots. 
Exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the income statement as 
exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, which result 
from a restructuring of the business or some other event or 
circumstance, are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better 
understanding of the underlying operational performance of the 
Group. The proﬁts arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a 
result of dairies depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional 
items. 
Government and other grants
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to 
an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 
it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, 
the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is 
released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the 
relevant asset in equal annual installments.
Income tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes, except 
as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
 where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial 
recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at 
the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt 
nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and
 in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, 
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can 
be utilised except:
 where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt 
nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and 
 in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal 
enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation 
authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net 
payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if 
it relates to items that are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited 
directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged 
directly to equity. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income 
statement.
Financial assets
The Group and Company classiﬁes ﬁnancial assets that are within 
the scope of IAS 39 as: 
 ﬁnancial assets at fair value through income statement;
 loans and receivables; 
 held-to-maturity investments; or 
 available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, as appropriate.
The Group and Company determines the classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial 
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each 
ﬁnancial year-end. When ﬁnancial assets are recognised initially, they 
are measured at fair value. The Group and Company currently hold 
only loans and receivables.
Derivative instruments
The Group and Company use derivative ﬁnancial instruments such 
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and 
foreign currency ﬂuctuations. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value 
hedges during the year. 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
Cash ﬂow hedges
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in 
other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the income statement. 
When the hedged ﬁrm commitment (in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure) or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the 
recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time 
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income 
are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or 
other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other cash ﬂow 
hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in other 
comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement in 
the same year in which the hedged item affects the net proﬁt and 
loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest 
payments are made or when debt matures. For derivatives that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from 
changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement for 
the year. 
Fair value measurement
The Group measures ﬁnancial instruments at fair value at each 
balance sheet date. Fair value is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair 
value measurement is based on the presumption that the 
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
 In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible 
to by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants would use when 
pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in 
their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-ﬁnancial asset takes into account 
a market participant’s ability to generate economic beneﬁts by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The 
Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufﬁcient data are available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed 
in the ﬁnancial statements are categorized within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that 
is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities
 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement is unobservable
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the ﬁnancial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 83
The numbers
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the 
allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The CODM’s primary focus for review and resource allocation is the Group as a whole. All revenue streams for the business are managed 
centrally by functional teams (e.g. Demand, Supply, Procurement and Finance) that have responsibility for the whole of the Group’s product 
portfolio. Although some discrete ﬁnancial information is available to provide insight to the management team of the key performance drivers, 
the product group proﬁt is not part of the CODM’s review. Management has judged that the Group comprises one operating segment under 
IFRS 8. As such, disclosures required under IFRS 8 for the ﬁnancial statements are shown on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement 
and Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Voluntary disclosure
To assist the readers of the ﬁnancial statements, management considers it appropriate to provide voluntary disclosure on a basis consistent 
with historical reporting of the product groups. In disclosing the product group proﬁt for the year, certain assumptions have been made when 
allocating resources which are now centralised at a group level.
Share of associate’s net proﬁt forms a separate product group whose results are reviewed on a post-tax basis.
The Other product group comprises revenue earned from distributing product for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to 
the other product groups. Generally, central costs less external ‘other’ revenue are recharged back into the product groups such that their 
result reﬂects the total cost base of the Group. ‘Other’ operating proﬁt therefore is nil.
The results under the historic segmentation basis for the year ended 31 March 2015 and for the year ended 31 March 2014 and the 
reconciliation of product group measures to the respective line items included in the ﬁnancial information are as follows:
     Year ended 31 March
  Note
  2015
£m
  2014
£m
External revenue   
Cheese   274.4   264.6 
Spreads   170.0   177.4 
Dairies   881.6   944.8 
Other
 
3.8 
 
4.2 
Total product group external revenue   1,329.8   1,391.0 
  
Product group proﬁt*   
Cheese   33.1   39.3 
Spreads   33.8   16.8 
Dairies   1.8   18.8 
Share of associate's net proﬁt 14   –   0.3 
Total product group proﬁt*   68.7   75.2 
Finance costs 5  (8.1)  (9.9)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax**   60.6   65.3 
Acquired intangible amortisation 2  (0.4)  (0.4)
Exceptional items 4  (36.3)  (10.4)
Other ﬁnance expense – pensions 20   (1.8)  (0.3)
Group proﬁt before tax    22.1   54.2 
Total assets     
Cheese    292.4   266.2 
Spreads    158.5   156.7 
Dairies    229.8   268.5 
Investments and share of associate     0.5   2.5 
Other    42.7   37.4 
Total product group    723.9   731.3 
Unallocated assets  
 
65.3 
 
74.7 
Total assets    789.2   806.0 
* Proﬁt on operations before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles. 
** Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest. 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
   Year ended 31 March
  Note
 
2015
£m
 
2014
£m
Inter-product group revenue     
Cheese    8.8   11.2 
Spreads    3.5   3.1 
Elimination    (12.3)  (14.3)
Total    – –
       
Product group depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets)
     
Cheese    7.0   7.0 
Spreads    2.6   2.5 
Dairies    13.9   15.4 
Other    7.1   7.0 
Total    30.6   31.9 
       
Product group additions to non-current assets     
Cheese    55.7   12.4 
Spreads    6.0   21.0 
Dairies    16.1   25.9 
Other    4.9   4.6 
Total    82.7   63.9 
       
Product group exceptional items     
Cheese    (3.4) –
Spreads    (16.7)  (3.8)
Dairies    (12.2)  (2.0)
Share of Associate 0.6 –
Unsegmented    (4.6)  (4.4)
Total exceptional operating costs 4  (36.3)  (10.2)
1 Segmental analysis continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 85
The numbers
Interest income and expense are not included in the measure of product group proﬁt. Group treasury has always been centrally managed 
and external interest income and expense are not allocated to product groups. Further analysis of the Group interest expense is provided 
in Note 5.
Tax costs are not included in the measure of product group proﬁt.
Product group assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, assets in disposal group 
held for sale and investments in associates using the equity method and deferred consideration but exclude cash and cash equivalents, 
derivative ﬁnancial assets and deferred tax assets. Other product group assets comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not 
reported in the principal groups.
Inter-product group revenue comprises the sale of ﬁnished Cheese and Spreads products to the Dairies product group on a cost plus basis 
and is included in the product group result. Other inter-product group transactions principally comprise the transfer of cream from the Dairies 
product group to the Spreads product group for the manufacture of butters. Cream transferred into Spreads is charged by reference to 
external commodity markets and is adjusted regularly so as to reﬂect the costs that the Spreads product group would incur if it was a stand 
alone entity. Revenue from inter-product group cream sales is not reported as revenue within the Dairies product group but as a reduction to 
the Dairies product group’s input costs.
Product group depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £0.4 million (2014: £0.4 million) as these 
costs are not charged in the product group result.
Product group additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through 
capital expenditure and acquisition of businesses.
Geographical information – continuing operations   Year ended 31 March
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
 
2015
£m  
2014
£m
UK   1,257.5   1,330.9 
Rest of world   72.3   60.1 
Total revenue (excluding joint ventures)   1,329.8   1,391.0 
  
Non-current assets* based on location   
UK   428.4   390.8 
Rest of world   0.5   1.1 
Total   428.9   391.9 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments and investment in associate.
The Group has two customers which individually represent more than 10% of revenue from continuing operations in the year ended 31 March 
2015 (2014: two) with each customer accounting for £145.5 million and £177.3 million (2014: £152.1 million and £174.8 million) of revenue from 
continuing operations being 11.0% and 13.4% (2014: 10.9% and 12.6%).
The product group analysis provided above is based upon groupings of similar products, namely Cheese, Spreads and Dairies, and therefore 
the analysis of Group revenue by product and services is consistent with the revenue analysis presented above with the exception of non-milk 
product sales in the Dairies product group, which amounted to £55.6 million (2014: £66.3 million).
1 Segmental analysis continued 86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 Operating costs – continuing operations
Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Cost of sales 1,022.3 32.0 1,054.3 1,040.4 5.8 1,046.2 
Distribution costs 183.9 – 183.9 207.8 – 207.8 
Administrative expenses 72.9 4.3 77.2 86.5 4.4 90.9 
1,279.1 36.3 1,315.4 1,334.7 10.2 1,344.9 
Proﬁt from continuing operations is stated after (charging)/crediting
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£m
Release of grants 1.7 1.7 
Depreciation (27.4) (28.6)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (0.4) (0.4)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (3.2) (3.3)
Realised exchange loss on early loan note repayment and translation of foreign currency balances (0.8) (0.8)
Operating lease rentals (26.5) (27.0)
Research and development expenditure (3.3) (3.8)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (1,022.3) (1,040.4)
Including: Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense (0.3) (0.6)
Remuneration paid to auditors
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors – audit of Company's annual accounts* 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 
Taxation services 0.1 0.1 
Other services relating to corporate ﬁnance transactions 0.5 – 
1.0 0.5 
* £10,000 (2014: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Non-audit services carried out in the year include, acting as Reporting Accountant in relation to the disposal of the Group’s Dairies operations 
and tax advisory services.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts of 
the Company because Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Ernst & Young LLP are auditors of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund. Fees paid by the Fund for audit services are not included in the 
above table.
3 Other income – property
Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Proﬁt on disposal of depots 17.6 – 17.6 18.2 – 18.2 
The Group continues to rationalise its Dairies operations as a result of the ongoing decline in doorstep volumes. This rationalisation includes 
the closure of certain depots (the proﬁt on which is shown above) and rationalisation of the ongoing Dairies operations. These activities 
represent a fundamental part of the ongoing ordinary activities of the Dairies operations.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 87
The numbers
4 Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Group. These one-off projects can span a number of accounting 
periods.
Operating costs
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£m
Spreads restructuring costs (16.7) (3.8)
Rationalisation of operating sites (11.8) (2.0)
Costs associated with the separation and proposed sale of the Dairies operations (4.3) – 
Demineralised whey powder and GOS projects (3.4) – 
Business reorganisation (0.3) (4.4)
Disposal of the business and assets of FoodTec UK Limited (0.4) – 
Disposal of remaining interest in Wexford Creamery Limited 0.6 – 
(36.3) (10.2)
Finance costs
Repayment of loan notes and associated costs (Note 5) – (0.2)
(36.3) (10.4)
Tax relief on exceptional items 6.6 2.1 
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate – 1.9 
(29.7) (6.4)
Discontinued operations (Note 29) – 1.4 
(29.7) (5.0)
Spreads restructuring costs
During the year, the Group completed the consolidation of its spreads production operations into one site in Kirkby, Liverpool. As a result of 
this consolidation, the site at Crudgington, Shropshire ceased production in December 2014. The exceptional costs incurred in the year were 
£16.7 million (2014: £3.8 million), including duplicate running, commissioning and redundancy costs. The tax credit on this exceptional charge 
for the year was £3.2 million (2014: £0.8 million).
Rationalisation of operating sites 
In September 2014, the Group announced it was starting consultation with employees and their representatives regarding the closure of its 
glass bottling dairy in Hanworth, West London and its specialist cream potting facility in Chard, Somerset. The Hanworth site is expected to 
remain operational until 2016. An exceptional charge of £2.5 million has been incurred in the period, primarily comprising accelerated 
depreciation of assets following an assessment of their useful economic lives as well as other associated closure costs. The Chard site is to be 
closed on economic grounds in the second half of 2015. As a result a £7.8 million impairment charge has been recognised to write the assets 
down to nil being their net realisable value after selling costs which is lower than their value in use and a charge of £1.5 million in relation to 
redundancy and closure costs has also been recognised. The tax credit on these exceptional costs in the year was £2.1 million.
The exceptional charge for the year ended 31 March 2014 related to the January 2014 closure of the Proper Welsh Milk dairy (£0.6 million) and 
the impairment of the plant and equipment and working capital of FoodTec UK Limited, a subsidiary whose business and assets were sold on 
29 July 2014 (£1.4 million). The tax credit on this exceptional charge in the year ended 31 March 2014 was £0.3 million.
Costs associated with the separation and proposed sale of the Dairies operations  
On 5 November 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to dispose of its Dairies operations to Müller which is subject to clearance from 
the relevant competition authorities. Following this announcement, the Group has started the process of separating its Dairies operations into 
a standalone operating unit to support the potential sale and increase focus in the challenging Dairies market. During the year, £2.7 million of 
costs were incurred in relation to the potential sale of the Dairies operation, which primarily comprised transaction related professional fees 
and £1.6 million in relation to the creation of a standalone Dairies operation including one-off business systems and other costs. The tax credit 
on this exceptional charge in the year was £0.5 million.
Demineralised whey powder and GOS projects  
The Group has initiated projects to signiﬁcantly invest in its cheese creamery at Davidstow, Cornwall to enable the Group to commence 
the manufacture of demineralised whey powder, a base ingredient of infant formula, and GOS, widely used in infant formula. The Group is 
investing £65 million on new manufacturing assets at Davidstow over ﬁnancial years ending 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016. During the 
year, £3.4 million of exceptional costs were incurred relating to project initiation and set up. The tax credit on this exceptional charge in the 
year was £0.7 million. 88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
5 Finance costs and other ﬁnance income
Finance costs
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (8.1) (9.7)
Unwind of discount on provisions (Note 23) – (0.2)
Finance charges on ﬁnance leases (0.1) (0.2)
Pre-exceptional ﬁnance costs – continuing operations (8.2) (10.1)
Finance income on cash balances (ﬁnancial assets not at fair value through proﬁt and loss) 0.1 0.2 
Pre-exceptional net ﬁnance costs  – continuing operations (8.1) (9.9)
Exceptional cost of repayment of loan notes (Note 4) – (0.2)
Total net ﬁnance costs – continuing operations (8.1) (10.1)
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts is stated after capitalising £2.4 million (2014: £1.6 million) of interest on expenditure on capital 
projects at the Group’s average cost of borrowing.
Business reorganisation  
In February 2013 the Group announced plans to reorganise the business into a single management and operational structure from 
1 April 2013. This reorganisation has resulted in exceptional redundancy costs in the year of £0.3 million. In the year ended 31 March 2014 a 
£4.4 million exceptional charge was taken comprising redundancy costs and the write-down of an intangible asset. The tax credit in the year 
on this exceptional charge was £0.1 million. (2014: £0.8 million). 
Disposal of business and assets of FoodTec UK Limited  
On 29 July 2014, the Group completed the sale of the business and assets of FoodTec UK Limited for consideration of £1.2 million, realising a 
loss on disposal of £0.4 million (see Note 29).
Disposal of remaining interest in Wexford Creamery Limited  
On 16 May 2014 the Group completed the sale of its 30% shareholding in Wexford Creamery Limited for €3.4 million (£2.8 million) realising a 
gain on disposal of £0.6 million (see Note 29). 
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2014 only: 
Repayment of loan notes and associated costs 
Exceptional costs of £0.2 million relating to bank charges and professional fees were incurred in the year ended 31 March 2014 as a result of 
the early repayment of private placement loan notes in April 2013. The tax effect of this exceptional charge was nil.
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate 
With effect from 1 April 2015, the corporation tax rate (which was enacted on 2 July 2013) was reduced to 20%. (see Note 6). The deferred tax 
calculations based on the lower rate resulted in a deferred tax beneﬁt of £1.9 million in the year ended 31 March 2014. Due to the size and 
one-off nature of this signiﬁcant amendment in the enacted rate, it was classiﬁed as an exceptional deferred tax credit in the year.
4 Exceptional items continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 89
The numbers
6 Tax expense
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2014 are:
Consolidated income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current income tax
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax – 0.2 
    – transfer from deferred tax – – 
– 0.2 
Deferred income tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.1 8.0 
Effect of change in tax rate – (1.9)
Adjustments in respect of previous years – deferred tax (0.5) (0.9)
    – transfer to current tax – – 
1.6 5.4 
Analysed: Before exceptional items 8.2 9.4 
  Exceptional items (6.6) (4.0)
1.6 5.4 
Reconciliation between tax charge/(credit) and the proﬁt/(loss) before tax multiplied by the statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 22.1 54.2 
Tax at UK statutory corporation tax rate of 21% (2014: 23%) 4.6 12.5 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.5) (0.7)
Adjustment in respect of associate’s proﬁts – (0.1)
Adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate* (0.2) (1.9)
Non-deductible expenses 1.9 1.2 
Proﬁts offset by available tax relief (4.2) (5.6)
1.6 5.4 
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on Group proﬁt before tax is 14.0% (2014: 14.6%). The effective tax rate continues to be below the 
headline rate of UK corporation tax due to the property proﬁt income stream, on which the tax charges are sheltered by brought forward 
capital losses or roll-over relief. The higher proportion of property proﬁts this year has reduced the effective rate of tax but we expect the 
effective tax rate to increase next year.
* UK corporation tax rate reduced to 21% from April 2014. A further 1% reduction has been enacted, taking the rate to 20% from April 2015. Owing to the availability of 
brought forward trading tax losses, the Group did not expect any taxable proﬁts to arise before 1 April 2015, accordingly deferred tax was provided on all temporary 
differences in the prior year, as well as the current year, at 20%.
Consolidated other comprehensive income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
Pension deferred tax movement taken directly to reserves (1.7) (8.7)
Valuation of ﬁnancial instruments (0.2) 0.3 
Tax credit (1.9) (8.4)
There were no income tax or deferred tax amounts charged to changes in equity in the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: nil). 90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2015 and 2014 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (29.5) (28.0)
Financial instruments valuation – (0.1)
Goodwill and intangible assets (8.5) (8.0)
(38.0) (36.1)
Deferred tax asset
Government grants 1.6 1.9 
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 
Pensions 16.0 17.9 
Financial instruments valuation 0.1 – 
Other 9.1 4.8 
26.9 24.7 
Net deferred tax liability (11.1) (11.4)
The Company has a deferred tax asset of £0.2 million at 31 March 2015 (2014: £0.2 million asset). This relates to temporary differences in 
respect of ﬁnancial instruments valuations.
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening net deferred tax liability (11.4) (14.6)
Charge to income statement (1.6) (5.2)
Credit to other comprehensive income 1.9 8.4 
Closing net deferred tax liability (11.1) (11.4)
The movement on the deferred tax liability is shown below:
Deferred tax asset/(liability)
Goodwill and
intangible
assets
£m
Pensions
£m
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Total
£m
Balances at 31 March 2014 (8.0) 17.9 (28.0) 6.7 (11.4)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations (0.5) (3.6) (1.5) 4.0 (1.6)
Credit to other comprehensive income – 1.7 – 0.2 1.9 
Balances at 31 March 2015 (8.5) 16.0 (29.5) 10.9 (11.1)
Balances at 31 March 2013 (9.2) 17.1 (31.7) 9.2 (14.6)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations 1.2 (7.9) 3.7 (2.2) (5.2)
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income – 8.7 – (0.3) 8.4 
Balances at 31 March 2014 (8.0) 17.9 (28.0) 6.7 (11.4)
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £34.0 million (2014: £137.5 million) that are available indeﬁnitely for offset against future 
taxable gains. Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of their being utilised. 
The Group has realised capital gains amounting to £39.2 million (2014: £27.6 million) for which rollover relief claims have been or are intended 
to be made. 
6 Tax expense continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 91
The numbers
8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings/losses per share (‘EPS’) on proﬁt/(loss) for the year from continuing operations is calculated by dividing proﬁt/(loss) from 
continuing operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the proﬁt from continuing operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the year plus the difference between the number of ordinary shares issued and the number of ordinary shares that would have been 
issued at the average market price of ordinary shares during the year. Note that in the circumstances where there is a basic loss per share, 
share options are anti-dilutive and therefore are not included in the calculation of diluted losses per share.
The shares held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (‘ESOP’) are excluded from the weighted average number of 
shares in issue used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the Directors’ opinion reﬂects the ongoing performance of the business more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share has been calculated. The computation for basic and diluted earnings per share (including adjusted 
earnings per share) is as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average no
of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average no
of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Basic EPS from continuing operations 20.5 136.7 15.0 48.8 136.5 35.8 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 0.9 (0.1) – 1.6 (0.5)
Diluted EPS from continuing operations 20.5 137.6 14.9 48.8 138.1 35.3 
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations
Proﬁt from continuing operations 20.5 136.7 15.0 48.8 136.5 35.8 
Exceptional items (net of tax) 29.7 – 21.7 6.4 – 4.7 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 0.3 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.2 
Pension interest expense (net of tax) 1.4 – 1.1 0.2 – 0.1 
Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations 51.9 136.7 38.0 55.7 136.5 40.8 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 0.9 (0.3) – 1.6 (0.5)
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 51.9 137.6 37.7 55.7 138.1 40.3 
Basic EPS from discontinued operations – 136.7 – 1.4 136.5 1.0
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 0.9  – 1.6 – 
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations – 137.6 – 1.4 138.1 1.0
Basic EPS on proﬁt for the year 20.5 136.7 15.0 50.2 136.5 36.8 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 0.9 (0.1) – 1.6 (0.4)
Diluted EPS on proﬁt for the year 20.5 137.6 14.9 50.2 138.1 36.4 
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of signing of 
these ﬁnancial statements.
7 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 15.4 pence (2013: 15.0 pence) 21.0 20.5 
Interim dividend for 2015: 6.0 pence (2014: 5.9 pence) 8.2 8.0 
29.2 28.5 
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 March)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2015: 15.7 pence (2014: 15.4 pence) 21.6 21.0  92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
9 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees (continuing operations) – Group
Year ended
31 March 
2015
number
Year ended
31 March 
2014
number
Average number of employees:
Production 1,819 1,859 
Sales, distribution and administration 2,391 2,686 
Total employees 4,210 4,545 
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel (continuing operations)
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 144.0 157.0 
Social security costs 14.2 15.2 
Equity settled share-based payments expense (Note 26) 1.7 1.5 
Pension costs (Note 20) 6.6 7.0 
166.5 180.7 
The above costs relate to continuing operations and include amounts paid to the Company’s Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
Further analysis is as follows:
Directors
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£000
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£000
Salaries and beneﬁts 1,424 1,374 
Bonuses 198 833 
Fees and beneﬁts to Non-Executive Directors 388 327 
Emoluments 2,010 2,534 
Severance payments 219 557 
Employer payments to deﬁned contribution pension scheme 20 39 
In addition, the Executive Directors exercised options during the year. Aggregate gains made by the Directors on the exercise of these share 
options were £189,374 (2014: £nil). The amount of the gain relating to highest paid director was £106,048 (2014: £nil).
Highest paid director
Salary and beneﬁts 666 656 
Bonus 97 423 
Emoluments 763 1,079 
Employer payments to deﬁned contribution pension scheme – 9 
Further information relating to Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 45 to 62. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 93
The numbers
10 Property, plant and equipment
Consolidated 2015
Land and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2014 174.0 287.3 69.5 530.8 
Additions 2.6 3.9 74.9 81.4 
Disposals (6.5) (45.9) – (52.4)
Disposal of FoodTec UK Limited (Note 4) (0.3) (2.9) – (3.2)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations 1.9 67.6 (69.5) – 
At 31 March 2015 171.7 310.0 74.9 556.6 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2014 63.7 178.5 – 242.2 
Charge for the year 5.0 22.4 – 27.4 
Asset impairments 3.5 5.7 – 9.2 
Disposals (3.3) (44.2) – (47.5)
Disposal of FoodTec UK Limited (Note 4) (0.3) (2.9) – (3.2)
At 31 March 2015 68.6 159.5 – 228.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 103.1 150.5 74.9 328.5 
Consolidated 2014
Cost
At 1 April 2013 183.4 306.5 23.6 513.5 
Additions 1.6 6.3 54.9 62.8 
Disposals (12.3) (28.0) (5.2) (45.5)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations 1.3 2.5 (3.8) – 
At 31 March 2014 174.0 287.3 69.5 530.8 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2013 64.4 178.8 – 243.2 
Charge for the year 5.6 23.0 – 28.6 
Asset impairments 0.1 1.7 – 1.8 
Disposals (6.4) (25.0) – (31.4)
At 31 March 2014 63.7 178.5 – 242.2 
Net book amount at 31 March 2014 110.3 108.8 69.5 288.6 
2014/15
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment within each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. With regard to the Dairies CGU, goodwill was fully impaired 
in 2011/12, however, given the low margins in this business and the challenging market conditions in 2014/15, the carrying value of property, 
plant and equipment within this CGU has been reviewed along with its value in use. The impairment methodology and key inputs for all CGUs 
are as set out in Note 11. For the Dairies CGU, consideration was taken of the future cash ﬂows on an on-going basis and also the impact of 
the potential disposal of the Dairies operations to create a risk weighted value in use calculation of the CGU. The discount rate applied to the 
value in use calculation was 7.8% (2014: 9.3%). The key input assumptions in performing the impairment test were the proﬁts expected from 
property sales, the allocation of corporate costs, the projected proﬁt margin growth and the timing and cash consideration of any potential 
Dairies operations disposal. The impairment review has not indicated any required write down of carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment in the year ended 31 March 2015. The value in use calculations resulted in a low level of headroom compared to the carrying value 
and any movement in the input assumptions above could lead to an impairment.
During the year £9.2 million of assets were impaired. The Chard site is to be closed on economic grounds in the second half of 2015, a £7.8 
million impairment charge has been recognised to write the assets down to nil being their net realisable value after selling costs which is lower 
than their value in use. In addition, £1.4 million of exceptional accelerated depreciation has been charged in relation to Hanworth (see Note 4).
2013/14
In 2013/14, the Group impaired £1.8 million of property, plant and equipment relating to the strategic review of FoodTec UK Limited 
(£0.3 million), the closure of Proper Welsh Milk dairy (£0.5 million) and the consolidation to a single UK spreads production site (£1.0 million). 
For further information see Note 4. 94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Capitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost 29.0 31.7 
Accumulated depreciation (22.7) (24.0)
Net book amount 6.3 7.7 
11 Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 147.3 
Disposal of FoodTec UK Limited (Note 4) (1.7)
At 31 March 2015 145.6 
Accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 (73.0)
Disposal of FoodTec UK Limited (Note 4) 1.7 
At 31 March 2015 (71.3)
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 74.3 
Net book amount at 31 March 2014 74.3 
Impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to four groups of cash-generating units (‘CGUs’): Dairies, Spreads, MH 
Foods and Cheese. At March 2012 goodwill in relation to the Dairies CGU was fully impaired and the carrying value of goodwill for this CGU at 
31 March 2015 is nil.
All groups of CGUs with goodwill are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets and 
strategic plans approved by senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate 
applied to the projections is 8.8% for Spreads (2014: 9.8%) and 8.9% for MH Foods and Cheese (2014: 9.4%).
Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of equity based on the 
capital asset pricing model and CGU-speciﬁc risk factors.
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the three-year period for MH Foods, Cheese and Spreads is nil (2014: 2% Cheese and 
MH Foods, nil Spreads).
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2015 is:
MH Foods £6.7 million (2014: £6.7 million)
Spreads £65.5 million (2014: £65.5 million)
Cheese £2.1 million (2014: £2.1 million)
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, initiatives implemented and associated efﬁciency improvements. The budgeted margins 
form the basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends. 
Discount rates – reﬂect management’s estimate of the risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital for each CGU.
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the market place adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reﬂect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three year time frame.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU where appropriate and to be 
realistically achievable in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
2014/15 and 2013/14
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those units to exceed their recoverable amount.
10 Property, plant and equipment continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 95
The numbers
12 Intangible assets
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2013 8.3 26.3 8.7 43.3 
Additions 1.1 – – 1.1 
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations (2.9) 2.9 – – 
At 31 March 2014 6.5 29.2 8.7 44.4 
Additions 1.3 – – 1.3 
Disposal – – – –
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations (6.4) 6.4  – –
At 31 March 2015 1.4 35.6 8.7 45.7 
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2013 – 9.7 3.1 12.8 
Amortisation for the year – 3.3 0.4 3.7 
At 31 March 2014 – 13.0 3.5 16.5 
Disposal – – – – 
Amortisation for the year – 3.2 0.4 3.6 
At 31 March 2015 – 16.2 3.9 20.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 1.4 19.4 4.8 25.6 
Net book amount at 31 March 2014 6.5 16.2 5.2 27.9 
Assets in the course of construction comprise enterprise resource planning costs and integrated business systems costs in respect of 
projects that are not completed as at 31 March 2015.
Internally generated intangible assets comprise software development and implementation costs across manufacturing sites, the milk&more 
business and Head Ofﬁce.
Acquired intangibles comprise predominantly brands acquired with the acquisition of businesses. The largest component within acquired 
intangibles is the ‘Frylight’ brand acquired with the acquisition of Morehands Limited (MH Foods) in June 2011. A useful life of 15 years has 
been assumed for this brand, with 11 years remaining. The carrying value of the Frylight brand at 31 March 2015 is £4.5 million (2014: £4.9 
million). 96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
13 Investments
Consolidated
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group acquired a further 3.5% of the share capital of HIECO Limited for a consideration of 
£0.1 million. At 31 March 2015, the Group held 10.5% of the share capital of HIECO Limited. In addition, the Group acquired 50% of the share 
capital of Promovita Ingredients Limited for a consideration of £0.1 million.
Company
Share grants 
awarded in 
subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2013 12.8 468.1 480.9 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.2 – 1.2 
At 31 March 2014 14.0 468.1 482.1 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 0.7 – 0.7 
At 31 March 2015 14.7 468.1 482.8 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings comprise an investment in Dairy Crest Limited of £239.2 million and an investment of £228.9 million in Dairy 
Crest UK Limited.
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represent the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
At 31 March 2015 the principal subsidiary undertakings were:
Business
Percentage of 
ordinary share 
capital held
Subsidiary undertakings and associates:
Dairy Crest Limited Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Philpot Dairy Products Limited Trading in dairy products 100%
Morehands Limited Manufacture of cooking oils 100%
The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings is England and Wales.
14 Investment in associates
During the year, the Group sold the remaining investment in Wexford Creamery Limited (see Note 4 and Note 29).
The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the associate at 31 March 2014 and for the year then ended, which was equity 
accounted for in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, were  as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current assets – 2.2 
Current liabilities – (1.4)
Share of net assets – 0.8 
Revenue – 13.5 
Operating costs – (13.2)
Result before tax – 0.3 
Tax expense – – 
Share of net result – 0.3  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 97
The numbers
15 Inventories
Consolidated
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 30.6 33.4 
Finished goods 169.1 186.2 
199.7 219.6 
Cheese inventories at 31 March 2015 totalled £149.2 million (2014: £167.2 million).
During the year ended 31 March 2015, £0.4 million of engineering and packaging inventories were written off following the ongoing 
consolidation of Clover manufacture into one site.
In April 2013 the Group granted the Trustee of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a ﬂoating charge over maturing cheese inventories with a 
maximum realisable value of £60 million.
16 Trade and other receivables
Consolidated Parent Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 74.8 104.8 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – – 9.9 
Other receivables 13.5 8.4 0.4 0.6 
Prepayments and accrued income 7.0 5.2 – – 
95.3 118.4 0.4 10.5 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are ﬁnancial assets.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Consolidated
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sterling 71.5 96.5 
Euro 1.3 2.0 
US Dollar 1.9 6.2 
Swiss Franc 0.1 0.1 
74.8 104.8 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at 
31 March 2015, trade receivables at nominal value of £7.7 million (2014: £7.7 million) were impaired and provided for. Movements in the 
provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
Consolidated
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 April 7.7 7.0 
Net charge for the year – operating – 0.8 
Amounts written off – (0.1)
At 31 March 7.7 7.7 
Bad debt provisions are principally in the Dairies’ residential and mid sized commercial channels on debt over 90 days. These businesses sell 
product on the doorstep and to middle ground and foodservice customers. The Group has no history of bad debt with regard to sales to large 
multiple retailers. There were no impairment provisions on any other class of receivables at 31 March 2015 or 2014. 98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Past due, not impaired
Neither past
due nor
Total
£m
impaired
£m
30 – 60 days
£m
60 – 90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 March 2015 74.8 60.8 11.8 1.3 0.9 
31 March 2014 104.8 89.5 12.3 2.6 0.4 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used.
16 Trade and other receivables continued
17 Financial assets
(i) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
Consolidated Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) – – 
Forward currency contracts (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 – 0.4 
– 0.4 
Non-current
Option to sell 20% holding in Wexford Creamery Limited 31 – 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 14.7 5.4 
14.7 7.0 
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 – – 
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 14.7 5.4 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all, with the exception in the prior year of the  option to sell a 
20% holding in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’), comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments  – Disclosures, namely, 
that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
WCL was sold during the year and there was no material movement in the fair value of the WCL options between recognition in  June 2010 and 
the date of disposal on 16 May 2014 (see Note 4).
18 Cash and short-term deposits
Consolidated Parent Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash and short-term deposits 50.6 67.3 0.2 – 
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 
Counterparty risk and the Group’s policy for managing deposits are described in Note 30. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 99
The numbers
19 Financial liabilities
Consolidated Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 31 – 1.8 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 31 – 25.3 
Debt issuance costs – (0.6)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings – 26.5 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) – 2.0 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) 31 0.2 – 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.2 2.0 
Current ﬁnancial liabilities 0.2 28.5 
Non-current
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 31 – – 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 31 158.2 144.2 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 31 105.0 36.0 
Debt issuance costs (0.2) (0.5)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 263.0 179.7 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 1.9 6.2 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1.9 6.2 
Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 264.9 185.9 
On 4 April 2014 there was a natural maturity of loan notes of €30.6 million (£27.4 million).
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Maturity
2015
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2015
2014
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2014
Current
Loan notes: Euro swapped into £ April 2014 –  – 25.3 4.97%
Finance leases –  – 1.8 5.18%
Debt issuance costs –  (0.6)
– 26.5 
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit 
facilities:
Sterling ﬂoating October 2016 105.0 LIBOR + 115bps 36.0 LIBOR + 115bps
Loan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 82.9 5.31% 73.8 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro swapped into £ April 2017 7.7 5.53% 8.8 5.53%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 2.8 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 16.8 3.87% 15.0 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 38.0 4.52% 33.8 4.52%
Debt issuance costs (0.2) (0.5)
263.0 179.7 
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times and minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 
times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: None). Key covenants under the 2011 revolving credit facility 
and debt private placement were unchanged from existing covenants.
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 30 and 31. 100 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
19 Financial liabilities continued
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) – 25.3 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings – 25.3 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) – 2.0 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – 2.0 
Current ﬁnancial liabilities – 27.3 
Non-current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 158.2 144.2 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 158.2 144.2 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 1.9 6.2 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1.9 6.2 
Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 160.1 150.4 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Maturity
2015
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 
2015
2014
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 
2014
Current
Loan notes: Euro swapped into £ April 2014 – – 25.3 4.97%
– 25.3 
Non-current
Loan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 82.9 5.31% 73.8 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro swapped into £ April 2017 7.7 5.53% 8.8 5.53%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 2.8 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 16.8 3.87% 15.0 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 38.0 4.52% 33.8 4.52%
158.2 144.2  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 101
The numbers
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group has a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme (Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund), which is closed to future service accrual and a deﬁned 
contribution scheme (Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme).
Deﬁned Beneﬁt Pension Scheme
The Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund (‘the Fund’) is a ﬁnal salary deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme, which was closed to future service accrual 
from 1 April 2010 and had been closed to new joiners from 30 June 2006. This pension scheme is a ﬁnal salary scheme.
The Fund is administered by a corporate trustee which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee’s directors are comprised of 
representatives of both the employer and employees, plus a professional trustee. The Trustee is required by law to act in the interest of all 
relevant beneﬁciaries and is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day administration of the beneﬁts.
The Company and Trustee have agreed a long term strategy for reducing investment risk as and where appropriate. This includes an asset-
liability matching policy which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the pension plan by investing in assets which perfrom in line 
with the liabilities of the plan so as to protect against inﬂation being higher than expected. In December 2008 and June 2009, certain 
obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of annuity contracts.
During the ﬁnancial year the Fund has introduced a Pension Increase Exchange (‘PIE’) at retirement, an offer which enables members to 
exchange pension increases on their pensions accrued before April 1997, excluding Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (‘GMP’) for a higher 
non-increasing pension.
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 
31 March 2013 by the Fund’s independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially. 
This valuation resulted in a deﬁcit of £145.0 million compared to the IAS19 deﬁcit of £56.3 million reported at that date. The next full actuarial 
valuation will be carried out in 2016/17 on the 31 March 2016 position. 
From October 2009, the Group has been making additional funding contributions to the scheme of £20.0 million per annum. Under the latest 
schedule of contributions, which was signed in March 2014, the level of contributions will reduce to £13.0 million per annum for 2014/15 and 
2015/16, increasing to £16.0 million per annum in 2016/17 and £20.0 million per annum for 2017/18 through to 2019/20. These annual 
contributions include £2.8 million per annum of rental payments for land and buildings that are subject to a sale and leaseback agreement 
between the Group and the Fund as part of the schedule of contributions.
The Fund duration is an indicator of the weighted-average time until beneﬁt payments are made. For the Fund as a whole, the duration is 
around 18 years reﬂecting the approximate split of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (including insured pensioners) between deferred members 
(duration of 24 years), current non-insured pensioners (duration of 15 years) and insured pensioners (duration of 11 years).
The principal risks associated with the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension arrangements are as follows:
Asset Volatility
The liabilities are calculated using the discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperfom this yield, this will create 
a deﬁcit. The Fund holds a signiﬁcant proportion in a range of return-seeking assets which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds 
in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short-term. The allocation to return-seeking assets is monitored to ensure it remains 
appropriate given the Fund’s long terms objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Fund’s liabilities for accounting purposes, although this will be 
partially offset by an increase in the value of the fund’s bond holdings.
Inﬂation Risk
A signiﬁcant portion of the Fund’s beneﬁt obligations are linked to inﬂation, and higher expected future inﬂation will lead to higher liabilities 
(although, in most cases, caps on the level of inﬂationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inﬂation). The majority of the assets 
are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inﬂation, meaning that an increase in expected future inﬂation will also increase the 
deﬁcit.
Longevity Risk
The majority of the Fund’s obligations are to provide beneﬁts for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase 
in liabilities.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of GMP. The UK Government intends to implement legislation which could result in 
higher beneﬁts for some members. This would increase the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation of the Fund. At this stage, it is not possible to quantify 
the impact of this change. 102 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
The following tables summarise the components recognised in the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement and 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of scheme assets: – Equities 53.1 45.5 
– Bonds and cash 592.6 523.6 
– Equity return swaps valuation* 10.7 3.3 
– Property and other 106.0 92.3 
– Insured retirement obligations 306.8 299.4 
1,069.2 964.1 
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation: – Uninsured retirement obligations** (790.4) (714.3)
– Insured retirement obligations (303.3) (297.4)
Total deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (1,093.7) (1,011.7)
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus (16.9) (10.1)
(1,110.6) (1,021.8)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (41.4) (57.7)
Related deferred tax asset 16.0 17.9 
Net pension liability (25.4) (39.8)
* Comprises a positive synthetic equity exposure of £155.3 million (2014: £155.7 million) and a negative LIBOR exposure of £144.6 million (2014: £152.4 million).
** Includes obligations to deferred members of £551.6 million (2014: £498.6 million) and non-insured members of £238.8 million (2014: £215.7 million).
The Group is entitled to any surplus on winding up of the Fund albeit refunds are subject to tax deductions of 35% at source. Based on the 
present value of committed cash contributions at 31 March 2015 and the IAS 19 valuation at that date of £24.5 million, £16.9 million would be 
deducted from any notional surplus returned to the Group and this has been recognised as an additional liability in accordance with IFRIC 14. 
However, it should be noted that cash contributions are determined by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation, not the IAS 19 valuation.
The actuarial deﬁcit is greater than that recognised under IAS 19 since liabilities are discounted by reference to gilt yields rather than high 
quality corporate bond yields.
Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Administration expenses (0.8) (1.0)
Past service cost 1.8 – 
Other ﬁnance costs – pensions (1.8) (0.3)
Loss before tax (0.8) (1.3)
Deferred tax 0.2 0.3 
Loss for the period (0.6) (1.0)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest) 89.3 26.8 
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 10.1 4.3 
Actuarial losses due to changes in the demographic assumptions – (18.0)
Actuarial losses due to changes in the ﬁnancial assumptions (88.3) (63.5)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) 11.1 (50.4)
Movement in liability for unrecoverable notional surplus (6.8) 0.8 
Recognised in other comprehensive income 4.3 (49.6)
Related tax 1.7 8.7 
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income 6.0 (40.9)
Actual returns on plan assets were £130.2 million (2014: £68.3 million).
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 103
The numbers
Movement in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (1,011.7) (925.7)
Interest cost (42.7) (41.8)
Actuarial losses (78.2) (77.2)
Past service cost 1.8 – 
Beneﬁts paid 37.1 33.0 
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (1,093.7) (1,011.7)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Opening fair value of scheme assets 964.1 869.4 
Interest income on fund assets 40.9 41.5 
Remeasurement gains on fund assets 89.3 26.8 
Contributions by employer 12.8 60.4 
Administration costs incurred (0.8) (1.0)
Beneﬁts paid out (37.1) (33.0)
Closing fair value of plan assets 1,069.2 964.1 
The Fund’s assets are invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market  with the exception of 
property, annuity policy and cash).
Assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Equities:
United Kingdom 49.9  50.6  137.3 
North America 65.9  62.8  89.3 
Europe (ex UK) 26.4  29.1  35.8 
Japan 17.1  15.8  34.4 
Asia (ex Japan) 9.2  8.2  16.0 
Emerging Markets 23.7  21.0  37.8 
Global Small Cap 16.2  13.7  12.2 
Cash/LIBOR Synthetic Equity (144.6) (152.4) (235.5)
Emerging Market Debt
i
 54.0  61.2  38.4 
High Yield Bonds –  –  22.7 
Multi Asset Credit
ii
 62.5  60.0  – 
Insurance Linked Securities
iii
 29.4  24.7  – 
Absolute Return Bonds
iv
 33.1  30.4  – 
Bonds:
Government Index Linked Gilts –  – 111.4
Network Rail Index Linked Gilts –  – 60.5
Corporate Bonds 118.1  98.0 131.8
Liability Driven Investments
v
 224.6  170.0  – 
Annuity Policy 306.8  299.4 286.3
Property 76.6  67.6  62.5 
Cash 100.3  104.0 28.5
Total 1,069.2 964.1 869.4
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued 104 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Equities are a combination of physical equities of £53.1 million (2014: £45.5 million), a positive synthetic equity exposure of £155.3 million (2014: 
£155.7 million) and a negative LIBOR exposure of £144.6 million (2014: £152.4 million).
The Group does not use any of the pension fund assets.
i   This is debt issued by emerging market countries denominated in the emerging market’s domestic currency. The debt is almost entirely issued by governments and 
not by corporations. Investors beneﬁt from higher yields on the bonds due to the additional risks of investing in emerging market countries, compared to developed 
countries and it is also expected that emerging market currencies will appreciate over time relative to developed countries.
ii   Multi Asset Credit strategies invest globally in a wide range of credit-based asset classes which include bank loans, high yield bonds, securitised debt, emerging 
market debt and distressed debt of non-investment grade. The investment strategies will also allocate amounts in investment grade credit, sovereign bonds and 
cash for defensive reasons. The strategies are opportunistic and allocate dynamically to the best opportunities within the credit market from an asset allocation and 
individual security selection perspective.
iii   Insurance linked securities are event-linked investments which allow investors outside the insurance industry to access insurance premiums for assuming various 
forms and degrees of insurance risk. The underlying risk premium is a type of investment risk where the event is linked to natural or man-made catastrophes. The 
premium paid to the investor represents compensation for the ‘expected loss’ due to the uncertainty around the size and timing of the insured event. 
iv   Absolute Return Bond strategies are designed to deliver a positive return in all market environments and will take advantage  of numerous alpha opportunities within 
the ﬁxed income universe. The objective of the strategy is to capture returns from active management in a number of areas within ﬁxed income including interest 
rates, currencies, asset allocation and security selection. The strategy will have long and short positions and employ a degree of leverage. The strategies tend to 
have low sensitivity to the direction of interest rates and credit.
v   Insight have been appointed to manage the Liability Driven Investment (‘LDI’) portfolio for the Fund. The objective is to hedge a proportion of the Fund’s liabilities 
against changes in interest rates and inﬂation expectations by investing in assets that are similarly sensitive to changes in interest rates and inﬂation expectations. 
Insight will seek to add interest and inﬂation exposure to the LDI portfolio over time in line with parameters that have been set by the Trustee. Insight are permitted 
to use a range of swaps and gilt based derivative instruments as well as physical bonds to structure the liability hedge for the Fund. In addition, Insight are 
responsible for monitoring market yields against a number of pre-set yield triggers and will increase the level of hedging as and when the triggers are met.
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement beneﬁt obligations for the Fund are shown below:
2015
%
2014
%
2013
%
Key assumptions:
Price inﬂation (RPI) 3.1 3.6 3.5 
Price inﬂation (CPI) 2.0 2.6 2.5 
Pension increases (Pre 1993 – RPI to 7%/annum) 3.1 3.6 3.5 
Pension increases (1993 to 2006 – RPI to 5%/annum) 3.0 3.4 3.3 
Pension increases (Post 2006 – RPI to 4%/annum) 2.8 3.1 3.0 
Life expectancy at 65 for a male currently aged 50 (years) 23.9 23.8 22.6 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 22.4 22.3 21.7 
Life expectancy at 65 for a female currently aged 50 (years) 26.8 26.7 25.3 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 24.6 24.5 24.1 
Discount rate 3.4 4.3 4.6 
The ﬁnancial assumptions reﬂect the nature and term of the Fund’s liabilities. The mortality assumptions are based on analysis of the Fund 
members, and allow for expected future improvements in mortality rates. It has been assumed that members exchange 25% of their pension 
for a cash lump sum at retirement and 30% of deferred members take the PIE option at retirement.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are discount rate, inﬂation and mortality. If different assumptions were used, this could have a material 
effect on the results disclosed. The sensitivity of the results (excluding unrecoverable notional surplus) to these assumptions is as follows:
Expected Expense for 15/16
Service
Cost
£m
Net
Interest
£m
Total P&L
Charge
£m
March 2015
Deﬁcit
£m
Current Figures (excluding unrecoverable notional surplus) 0.8 0.6 1.4 (24.5)
Effect of a 0.1% decrease in the discount rate – 0.5 0.5 (16.0)
Recalculated value 0.8 1.1 1.9 (40.5)
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the inﬂation assumption – 0.4 0.4 (12.0)
Recalculated value 0.8 1.0 1.8 (36.5)
Effect of a 1 year increase in life expectancy – 1.0 1.0 (30.0)
Recalculated value 0.8 1.6 2.4 (54.5)
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 105
The numbers
The above sensitivities assume that, with the exception of the annuity contracts, the Fund’s assets remain unchanged due to changes in 
assumptions, but in practice changes in market interest and inﬂation rates will also affect the value of the Fund’s assets. The Company and 
Trustee have agreed a long term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes an asset-liability matching policy 
which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the Fund by investing in assets which perform in line with the liabilities of the Fund. In 
December 2008 and June 2009, certain obligations relating to retired members were fully hedged by the purchase of annuity contracts. The 
Fund’s other investments include matching assets which protect against changes in bond yields and against inﬂation risk. The respective 
interest rate and inﬂation hedge ratios for these assets as at 31 March 2015 were both 26% of those obligations not covered by annuity 
contracts.
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognised income 
and expense in relation to the Fund. The legal sponsor of the Fund is Dairy Crest Limited.
Deﬁned Contribution Pension Scheme
The Group has charged £6.6 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: 
£7.0 million). The Company has made no charge in respect of the Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 
2015 (2014: nil).
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
21 Trade and other payables
Consolidated Parent Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables* 100.3 131.2 – – 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – 36.9 – 
Other tax and social security 3.6 4.2 – – 
Other creditors* 9.7 15.8 – – 
Accruals* 54.5 67.1 3.1 3.8 
168.1 218.3 40.0 3.8 
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
22 Deferred income
Current
2015
£m
2014
£m
Grants 1.6 1.7 
Non-current
Grants 6.2 7.8 
In 2010/11 two new biomass boilers were installed at the Davidstow cheese manufacturing site. Capital expenditure amounted to £3.9 million 
and we received cash grants of £0.8 million during the year ended 31 March 2011 and £0.2 million during the year ended 31 March 2012 from 
the South West of England Regional Development Agency. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions principally regarding continued 
use and ownership of the boilers until 29 November 2014. In the year ended 31 March 2013, £0.4 million of this grant was voluntarily repaid in 
order to receive annual renewable heat incentives. The conditions concerning the remaining outstanding grant are unchanged.
In 2012/13 the Group announced that it was consolidating its spreads manufacturing in to a single site at Kirkby, Liverpool. During 2012/13 the 
Group received a grant of £5.3 million under the Regional Growth Fund from the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills in relation to 
this project. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions over a ﬁve year term, principally the project being completed and creating or 
safeguarding the agreed number of jobs. 106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
24 Share capital
Authorised
2015
Thousands
2014
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000 
Issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2013 136,596 34.1 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 113 0.1 
At 31 March 2014 136,709 34.2 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 866 0.2 
Issued for cash to ESOP at par 150 – 
At 31 March 2015 137,725 34.4 
During the year ended 31 March 2015 1,016,309 shares were issued at a premium of £2.2 million for an aggregate consideration of £2.4 
million (2014: 113,558 shares at a premium of £0.1 million for an aggregate consideration of £0.2 million). Exercises of management share 
options are fulﬁlled by the transfer of existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) – see note 25.
23 Provisions
Onerous 
contracts
£m
Site 
restructuring 
and 
rationalisation 
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2013 – current 1.7 – 1.7 
Utilised (0.2) – (0.2)
Discount unwind 0.2 – 0.2 
At 31 March 2014 – current 1.7 – 1.7 
Settled on disposal (1.7) – (1.7)
Charged during the year – 3.1 3.1 
At 31 March 2015 – current – 3.1 3.1 
Onerous contract
In June 2010, the Group disposed of 50% of the share capital of Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’). As part of the disposal, the Group 
entered into an agreement to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of cheese from WCL for a period of ﬁve years from the date of disposal. 
The price paid by the Group for that cheese is determined by reference to cost plus margin. Realisations for commodity cheese ﬂuctuate and 
at the date of disposal a provision of £3.6 million was charged in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements. On 16 
May 2014, following the sale of its remaining shareholding in WCL, the remaining onerous contract provision of £1.7 million was released.
Restructuring and rationalisation of operating sites
During the year, the Group provided through exceptional operating items, decommissioning and demolition costs associated with the Spreads 
restructuring project and redundancy costs in relation to the closure of the Chard site. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 107
The numbers
25 Notes to statement of changes in equity
Consolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under the Company’s management share option schemes (see Note 26).
At 31 March 2015 the ESOP held 90,768 shares (2014: 129,024 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.1 million (2014: £0.6 million). The ESOP 
was established in August 1996 to acquire shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group including shares 
awarded under the Company’s management share option schemes. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP transferred 188,256 (2014: 
1,085) shares following exercises of options and subscribed for 150,000 shares at 25 pence per share. The market value of the shares held by 
the ESOP, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange was £0.4 million at 31 March 2015 (2014: £0.6 million).
Other reserves – Consolidated
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2014 55.9 (2.1) (1.5) 52.3 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (0.9) – (0.9)
At 31 March 2015 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
At 31 March 2013 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – 0.9 – 0.9 
At 31 March 2014 55.9 (2.1) (1.5) 52.3 
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest Limited in 1996. The cumulative amount of 
goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2014: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the gains and losses on hedging instruments, to the extent that they are effective cash ﬂow hedges. Any gains 
and losses previously recorded in the hedging reserve are reclassiﬁed in proﬁt and loss when the underlying hedged item affects proﬁt and 
loss.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives designated to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company. The proﬁt for the 
year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £8.3 million (2014: £24.7 million) including dividends received from subsidiary companies of 
£8.5 million (2014: £25.3 million). Dividends paid amounted to £29.2 million (2014: £28.5 million) which, along with a debit for share-based 
payments of £0.4 million (2014: £0.3 million credit) resulted in a £21.3 million decrease in retained earnings (2014: £3.5 million decrease).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest Limited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue of 
109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve of 
£142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million.
26 Share based payment plans
Group
The Group has ﬁve share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy Crest Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’)
This is a long term incentive scheme under which awards are made to Directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of ﬁnancial targets based on (i) total shareholder returns (‘TSR’) over a three year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in adjusted basic earnings per share. From 2009, the TSR element was increased from 50% to 60% of 
the awards granted. The vesting period for grants made under this scheme is 3 years with an exercise period of 7 years. There were no 
awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: nil). There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme, which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No ﬁnancial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. In June 2014, 1,467,484 options were 
granted under the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme at a price of 376 pence (June 2013: nil). There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Deferred Bonus Plan (‘DBP’)
From 2005/06, bonuses earned that are in excess of 50% of basic salary are deferred in shares (and from 2011 in share options) with a vesting 
period of 3 years. The only vesting condition is continuing employment. The cost of these shares is charged over 4 years (being the year the 
bonus was earned and the three-year vesting period) and is based on the number of shares issued (or from 2011 over which nil cost options 
are granted) and the share price at the date of issue. During the year ended 31 March 2015, 65,086 deferred shares were awarded in relation 
to the year ended 31 March 2014 (2014: nil). 108 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
The Dairy Crest Long Term Alignment Plan (‘LTAP’)
The LTAP replaced the LTISP in the year ended 31 March 2014. This is a long term incentive scheme under which awards are made to 
Directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares for a nominal price. The vesting period for grants made under this 
scheme is 50% of the award after 4 years and 50% after 5 years. Pre-grant performance criteria determine the amount of any initial grant after 
which there are no signiﬁcant performance conditions prior to vesting. As such, these options are fair valued at 100% of the price at the date 
of the grant.
The Transformational Incentive Award (‘TIA’)
The TIA was granted, under the rules of the LTISP, in December 2014. The TIA is a nil price option to acquire ordinary shares subject to certain 
performance objectives being met in addition to continuing employment. The performance objectives relate to three categories detailed 
below:
1) managing the competition approval process relating to the proposed Dairies operation disposal; 
2) appropriate reshaping of the Group, taking into account the competition approval process; and
3) establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group, including delivering value to shareholders.
The vesting period is three years from the date of grant. In December 2014, 236,843 shares were awarded under the TIA. There are no cash 
settlement alternatives.
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the principal schemes is set out as follows:
LTAP * TIA * DBP * LTISP * Sharesave Scheme
number number number number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2014 337,595 – 2,875 985,198 2,994,777 276.0 
Options granted during the year 380,273 236,843 65,086 – 1,467,484 376.0 
Reinvested dividends 20,395 3,780 973 57,931 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – (169,241) (866,309) 266.3 
Options forfeited during the year (21,326) – – (677,151) (476,509) 318.2 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2015 716,937 240,623 68,934 196,737 3,119,443 319.3 
Exercisable at 31 March 2015 – – – 196,737 62,607 – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2013 – – – 2,000,800 3,526,048 275.4 
Options granted during the year 333,953 – 2,875 – – – 
Reinvested dividends 3,642 – – 94,469 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – (57,573) (68,369) 264.4 
Options forfeited during the year – – – (1,052,498) (462,902) 273.1 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2014 337,595 – 2,875 985,198 2,994,777 276.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2014 – – – 177,231 – – 
* The weighted average exercise price for LTAP, TIA, DBP and LTISP options is nil.
Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to February 2018 at prices ranging from 265p to 376p (March 2014: exercisable up to 
September 2016 at prices ranging from 265p to 281p). LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (March 2014: July 2022). 
LTAP options are exercisable at varying dates up to December 2024 (March 2014: August 2023). DBP options are exercisable at varying dates 
up to December 2024 (March 2014: June 2023). TIA options are exercisable up to December 2024.
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at March 2015 is 7.1 years for the LTISP, 9.1 years for the LTAP, 9.6 
years for the DBP, 9.8 years for the TIA and 2.0 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2014: LTISP 8.1 years, LTAP 9.4 years, DBP 8.3 years and 
Sharesave Scheme 2.1 years). The weighted average share price on exercise of Sharesave options was £3.19 (2014: £2.76).
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in June 2014 was 17.9% giving a fair value of £0.83 per option granted. This has 
been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model were expected share price 
volatility 22%, risk free rate of interest 1.55% and dividend yield 4.40%. The volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of the Dairy 
Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the grant date of option.
The fair value of TIA options issued on 23 December 2014 was £4.91 per option granted. This has been computed using a Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model were expected share price volatility 24% and a risk free rate of interest 
0.85%. The volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with 
the expected option life, ending on the grant date of option.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2015 was £1.7 million (2014: £1.5 million) (See Note 9).
26 Share based payment plans continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 109
The numbers
Company
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is setout as 
follows:
LTAP TIA DBP LTISP Sharesave Scheme
number number number number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2014 179,857 – 2,875 406,757 9,606 281.0 
Options granted during the year 201,611 236,843 65,086 – 11,966 376.0 
Reinvested dividends 10,845 3,780 973 22,199 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – (76,626) – – 
Options forfeited during the year – – – (278,975) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2015 392,313 240,623 68,934 73,355 21,572 333.7 
Exercisable at 31 March 2015 – – – 73,355 – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2013 – – – 777,916 12,808 281.0 
Options granted during the year 177,919 – 2,875 – – – 
Reinvested dividends 1,938 – – 34,221 – – 
Adjustment for change of director during the year – – – (165,222) (3,202) – 
Options exercised during the year – – – – – – 
Options forfeited during the year – – – (240,158) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2014 179,857 – 2,875 406,757 9,606 281.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2014 – – – 73,609 – – 
Sharesave Scheme options are exercisable up to February 2018 at a price of 376p (March 2014: up to September 2016 at a price of 281p). 
LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (2014: July 2022). LTAP options are exercisable at varying dates up to 
December 2024 (March 2014: August 2023). DBP options are exercisable at varying dates up to December 2024 (March 2014: June 2023). 
TIA options are exercisable up to December 2024.
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at March 2015 is 7.3 years for the LTISP, 9.1 years for the LTAP, 9.6 
years for the DBP, 9.8 years for the TIA and 2.3 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2014: LTISP 8.1 years, LTAP 9.4 years, DBP 8.3 years and 
Sharesave Scheme 2.4 years). 76,626 LTISP options were exercised during the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: nil).
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2015 was £0.5 million (2014: £0.3 million).
26 Share based payment plans continued 110 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
27 Commitments and contingencies
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. There are no material renewal options, 
escalation clauses or purchase options included in the lease contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material 
sub-leases. There are no signiﬁcant restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between three and seven years.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, certain assets at the Severnside facility were sold for cash consideration of £1.4 million. This equipment 
has been leased back under an operating lease with a 5 year term. There are no purchase option clauses or any contingent lease rentals.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 20.0 21.0 
After one year but not more than ﬁve years 25.8 33.0 
More than ﬁve years 13.1 13.9 
Finance leases
The Group repaid all ﬁnance lease liabilities during the year ended 31 March 2015. In the prior year, the ﬁnance leases principally comprised 
certain items of plant and equipment at the Davidstow site.
2015 2014
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 1.9 1.8 
After one year but not more than two years – – – – 
After two years but not more than ﬁve years – – – – 
After more than ﬁve years – – – – 
Total minimum lease payments – – 1.9 1.8 
Less: amounts representing ﬁnance charges – (0.1) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments – – 1.8 1.8 
Trading guarantees
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £1.7 million at 31 March 2015 (2014: £4.0 million). These 
guarantees are made principally by Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to customers as performance bonds and to the 
Rural Payment Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed.
Capital commitments
Consolidated
2015
£m
2014
£m
Future capital expenditure contracted on property, plant and equipment 21.6 70.9  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 111
The numbers
29 Business combinations and disposals
Year ended 31 March 2015
Disposal of business and assets of FoodTec UK Limited
On 29 July 2014, the Group completed the sale of the business and assets of FoodTec UK Limited for a cash consideration of £1.2 million, 
realising a loss on disposal of £0.4 million. The carrying value of the assets sold was £1.6 million representing net working capital (£1.5 million) 
and tangible ﬁxed assets (£0.1 million).
Disposal of remaining interest in Wexford Creamery Limited
On 16 May 2014, the Group completed the sale of its 30% shareholding in Wexford Creamery Limited for €3.4 million (£2.8 million), realising a 
gain on disposal of £0.6 million. The net carrying value at disposal was £2.2 million, comprising investment (£1.1 million), share of associate’s 
loss (£0.3 million) and deferred consideration (£1.4 million).
Year ended 31 March 2014
Disposal of Northern Depots
As part of the ongoing rationalisation of the depot network, on 27 July 2013, the Group completed the disposal of seven depots located in the 
north-west of England for a cash consideration of £1.2 million. The carrying value of assets sold was £0.8 million including net working capital 
and fees of £0.1 million resulting in a proﬁt on disposal of £0.3 million. The gain on disposal of these depots has been included in other income 
– property in the consolidated income statement.
Disposal of Discontinued Operation
£1.4 million of the original tax provision resulting from the trading of St Hubert SAS (‘St Hubert’) up to its disposal in August 2012 was released 
back to the income statement as discontinued operations. The provision for taxes crystallising as a result of the disposal is unchanged.
Acquisitions
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group acquired 3.5% of the share capital of HIECO Limited for a consideration of £0.1 million and 
acquired 50% of the share capital of Promovita Ingredients Limited for a consideration of £0.1 million (see Note 13).
28 Related party transactions
The Group’s only signiﬁcant related party was its associate, Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’). During the period to the disposal on 16 May 
2014, the Group purchased cheese at a cost of £0.5 million from WCL (2014: £6.4 million).
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee beneﬁts 2.1 3.4 
Share-based payments 0.5 0.3 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel* 2.6 3.7 
*  Further details relating to compensation of key management personnel are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This includes a description of pension 
arrangements and any cash supplements paid. 
Key management personnel comprise Executive and Non-executive Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc. The senior management team is small 
and all key decisions are made by either the three Executive Directors or by the Group Board which meets regularly. 
Dairy Crest Limited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £2.1 million (2014: £3.4 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest Limited received £2.0 million (2014: £3.2 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest Limited. 
Interest charges of £3.7 million (2014: £2.9 million) were incurred by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on loans reﬂecting an interest rate 
of LIBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £11.0 million (2014: £11.3 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on 
loans reﬂecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2014: 5.3%) and a further £0.3 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest UK Limited on 
ﬂoating rate loans paying LIBOR plus margin (2014: £0.3 million). The Company paid no interest (2014: £nil) to Dairy Crest Limited on cross-
currency swaps paying LIBOR and receiving EURIBOR. 112 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of ﬂuctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value of 
the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, on reported proﬁtability and on cash ﬂows.
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, ﬁnance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to raise ﬁnance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other ﬁnancial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to 
manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of ﬁnance. It is, and has been throughout 2014 
and 2015, the Group’s policy that no trading in ﬁnancial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of ﬁnancial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objectives are:
 to ensure that forecast peak net borrowings, plus a prudent operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature after at 
least 12 months; 
 to ensure that prudent headroom versus bank and loan note covenant ratios are forecast for the next three years;
 to maintain ﬂexibility of funding by employing diverse sources of funds (eg use of non-bank markets such as private placements); and
 to avoid a concentration of facility maturities in any particular year.
The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 19. At 31 March 2015 the Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £393.3 million 
(2014: £414.0 million) excluding ﬁnance leases of £nil (2014: £1.8 million) and the impact of cross-currency swaps on US Dollar and Euro loan 
notes of £13.9 million (2014: £2.1 million). The facilities at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 consisted of:
 £170 million plus €90 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
 loan notes totalling £158.2 million repayable between April 2016 and November 2021.
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2015 amounted to £130.1 million (2014: £208.4 million). Effective headroom including cash and 
short term deposits amounted to £180.7 million (2014: £275.7 million).
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and by monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short term and long term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. 
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long term debt obligations with a ﬂoating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of ﬁxed and variable rate debt. The Group’s long term strategy is to keep between 
one third and three quarters of its borrowings at ﬁxed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efﬁcient manner, the 
Group has issued ﬁxed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps from time to time on a portion of its ﬂoating bank 
borrowings, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at speciﬁed intervals, the difference between ﬁxed and variable rate interest amounts 
calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest cash 
ﬂow obligations. In the short-term the proportion of ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate borrowings can go outside the long term range.
At 31 March 2015, 60% of the Group’s borrowings were at a ﬁxed rate of interest (2014: 83%). Following the maturity and repayment of loan 
notes in April 2014 and April 2013, the amounts drawn under revolving credit facilities have increased in 2014/15 and the ﬁxed rate percentage 
of borrowings has fallen. In addition, there have been signiﬁcant one-off cash ﬂows in the year in relation to the Demineralised Whey and GOS 
and Spreads restructuring projects. In the medium term we expect the ﬁxed proportion of borrowings to be in the target range.
The Group’s borrowing facilities require minimum interest cover of 3.0 times.
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is shown (by way of a sensitivity analysis) in Note 31.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has no signiﬁcant operations outside the UK. However it buys and sells a small amount of goods in currencies other than Sterling. 
As a result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash ﬂows can be affected by movements in 
exchange rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures are 
limited. It can be seen in Note 16 that the only signiﬁcant non-Sterling debtors are in US Dollar (2015: £1.9 million) and Euro (2015: £1.3 million).  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 113
The numbers
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
The Group trades skimmed milk products and bulk butter mainly to customers in Europe and Central and South America. The Group also 
exports its own skimmed milk products, bulk butter and other branded products. The Group’s policy requires foreign currency sales and 
purchases through Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to be hedged by foreign exchange contracts once the transaction is 
committed so that the margin on the transaction can be ﬁxed.
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006, 2007 and 2011 the Group issued loan notes denominated either in $US, € or £. Cross-currency swaps were implemented as required 
to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash ﬂows. These have the effect of ﬁxing the liability and coupon in Sterling. The principal 
amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties 
with strong credit ratings. There is no proﬁt and loss exposure in relation to $US or € note debts as any retranslation impact on the proﬁt and 
loss account is offset by reclassiﬁcation of amounts from other comprehensive income into proﬁt and loss.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil and crude oil by-products 
(used in packaging).
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on proﬁtability and to assess whether the 
amount of forward cover is appropriate. This includes vegetable oil contracts and energy, which is generally contracted one season in 
advance for both summer and winter energy but with some requirement contracted at more regular intervals.
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Commodity Risk Committee comprising senior operational and ﬁnance management and external advisers.
Credit risk
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognised, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not signiﬁcant.
The Dairies’ doorstep business trades with individuals and receives cash payments on a weekly basis. Cash and debt management is a 
crucial part of this business and cash collection and balances due are closely monitored to ensure write-downs are minimised.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly when payment terms are breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other ﬁnancial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these ﬁnancial assets of £153.6 million (2014: £189.3 million).
All revolving credit facility borrowings are through banks with long term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business 
requirements are invested overnight through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of A or better. The 
Group currently has no requirement to place deposits for a longer period, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are contracted with a range of banks with long term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive 
concentration of ﬁnancial instruments with one counterparty.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is 3.5 
times. At 31 March 2015 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 1.97 times (March 2014: 1.31 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No signiﬁcant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2015 or the prior year. 
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The analysis of net debt is included in Note 
33. The gearing ratio at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 can be analysed as follows:
 
 
2015 
£m
 
2014
£m
Net debt   198.7   142.2
Shareholders’ funds   289.8   289.4
Gearing ratio   69%   49%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 7. The dividend policy is to maintain a progressive dividend whilst 
seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times. The ﬁnal proposed dividend for 2014/15 is 15.7 pence up 0.3 pence 
from last year (2014: 15.4 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015 amount to 21.7 pence (2014: 
21.3 pence). 114 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
31 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s ﬁnancial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the discussion of Treasury 
policies in Note 30.
Consolidated
Interest rate maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2015
Fixed rate  
Loan notes* – (92.9) (10.5) (16.8) – (38.0) (158.2)
Forward currency contracts (0.2) – – – – – (0.2)
Cross currency swaps – 14.4 (1.5) 0.4 – (0.5) 12.8
Floating rate    
Bank loans – (105.0) – – – – (105.0)
Cash at bank and in hand 50.6 – – – – – 50.6
At 31 March 2014
Fixed rate
Loan notes* (25.3) – (83.8) (11.6) (15.0) (33.8) (169.5)
Finance leases (1.8) – – – – – (1.8)
Forward currency contracts 0.4 – – – – – 0.4 
Deferred consideration – 1.4 – – – – 1.4 
Cross currency swaps (2.0) – 5.4 (0.3) (1.4) (4.5) (2.8)
Floating rate
Bank loans – – (36.0) – – – (36.0)
Option to sell 20% holding in WCL – – – – 1.6 – 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 67.3 – – – – – 67.3 
* Classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments 
classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s proﬁt before tax through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings. There is no material impact on the Group’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash ﬂow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 
2015, 60% of Group borrowings were at ﬁxed rates of interest (2014: 83%) (see Note 30).
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative ﬂoating 
rate ﬁnancial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash ﬂow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge and are matched in both proﬁt and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments have proﬁt and loss exposure 
due to ﬂoating rates as a result of interest rate swaps. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 115
The numbers
The 2015 analysis below reﬂects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2014 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2014.
Increase/
decrease in
basis points
Effect on
proﬁt
 before tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2015
Sterling +100 1.1 –
Sterling -50 (0.5) –
2014
Sterling +100 0.4 – 
Sterling -50 (0.2) – 
Equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (see Note 20).
Credit risk
There are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to ﬁnancial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 30).
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial 
liabilities at 31 March 2015 and 2014 based on contractual undiscounted payments of interest and principal. 
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2015
Loan Notes (8.0) (95.5) (12.6) (18.7) (1.5) (40.4) (176.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (6.5) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (1.6) (38.8) (149.4)
receipt leg 7.3 85.3 9.8 18.7 1.5 40.4 163.0 
Bank loans – (105.0) – – – – (105.0)
At 31 March 2014
Loan Notes (32.6) (7.3) (86.2) (13.4) (16.7) (37.3) (193.5)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (33.3) (6.5) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (40.4) (182.7)
receipt leg 31.9 6.6 76.1 10.6 16.7 37.3 179.2 
Bank loans – – (36.0) – – – (36.0)
Finance leases (1.8) – – – – – (1.8)
Forward currency contracts and short-term payables all mature within one year.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The carrying amounts and the fair values of all of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried in the ﬁnancial statements are the same, 
with the exception of the loan notes. The carrying amount of the loan notes was £158.2 million and the fair value was £155.1 million. The fair 
value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at prevailing interest rates.
Cross currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding $US/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2015 was $204.4 million (£137.7 
million) (2014: $204.4 million (£122.4 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2015 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.305% (2014: 3.863% to 
5.305%). Any gains / losses arising from fair value adjustments deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (ﬁnance costs) during 
the next one to eight years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2015 was €10.7 million (£7.7 million) 
(2014:  €41.3 million (£36.5 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges 
and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2015 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 5.470% to 5.600% (2014: 4.955% to 5.600%. 
The loss deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (ﬁnance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
31 Financial instruments continued 116 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Forward currency contracts
The Group has entered into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases 
and receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated cash ﬂow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They all 
have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then be reclassiﬁed to the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2015 of £130.1 million (2014: £208.4 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. Undrawn facilities expire in October 2016.
Company
Interest rate maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2015
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Loan notes* – (92.9) (10.5) (16.8) – (38.0) (158.2)
Intercompany receivables 179.8 – – – – – 179.8 
Cross currency swaps – 14.4 (1.5) 0.4 – (0.5) 12.8 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (216.7) – – – – – (216.7)
At 31 March 2014
Fixed rate
Loan notes* (25.3) – (83.8) (11.6) (15.0) (33.8) (169.5)
Intercompany receivables 168.8 – – – – – 168.8 
Cross currency swaps (2.0) – 5.4 (0.3) (1.4) (4.5) (2.8)
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (159.0) – – – – – (159.0)
* These have been classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Company’s proﬁt before tax through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash ﬂow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. 
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative ﬂoating 
rate ﬁnancial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash ﬂow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both proﬁt and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments have proﬁt and loss exposure 
due to ﬂoating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
31 Financial instruments continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 117
The numbers
31 Financial instruments continued
The 2015 analysis below reﬂects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2014 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2014.
 
Increases/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect on
proﬁt before 
tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2015
Sterling +100 – – 
Sterling -50 – – 
2014
Sterling +100 – – 
Sterling -50 – – 
Equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
Credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets.
Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Company’s 
ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2015 and 2014 based on contractual undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2015
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (8.0) (95.5) (12.6) (18.7) (1.5) (40.4) (176.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (6.3) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (1.6) (38.8) (149.2)
receipt leg 7.3 85.3 9.8 18.7 1.5 40.4 163.0 
At 31 March 2014
Loan Notes (32.6) (7.3) (86.2) (13.4) (16.7) (37.3) (193.5)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (33.3) (6.5) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (40.4) (182.7)
receipt leg 31.9 6.6 76.1 10.6 16.7 37.3 179.2 
Forward currency contracts and short-term payables and accruals all mature within one year.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried in the ﬁnancial statements are the same, with the 
exception of the loan notes. The carrying amount of the loan notes was £158.2 million and the fair value was £155.1 million.
Cross currency swaps
External
The notional principal amount of the outstanding $US/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2015 was $204.4 million (£137.7 
million) (2014: $204.4 million (£122.4 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2014 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.305% (2014: 3.863% to 
5.305%). Any gains/losses arising from fair value adjustments deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (ﬁnance costs) during the 
next one to eight years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2015 was €10.7 million (£7.7 million) 
(2014: €41.3 million (£36.5 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2014 the ﬁxed interest rate varied from 5.470% to 5.600% (2014: 4.955% to 5.600%). The 
loss deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (ﬁnance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2015 of £130.1 million (2014: £208.4 million) in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in October 2016.  118 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
32 Cash ﬂow from operating activities
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2014
£m
Proﬁt before taxation – continuing operations 22.1 54.2 
Finance costs and other ﬁnance income – continuing operations 9.9 10.4 
Share of associate’s net loss/(proﬁt) – (0.3)
Proﬁt on operations 32.0 64.3 
Depreciation 27.4 28.6 
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 3.2 3.3 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.4 0.4 
Exceptional items 16.5 (10.6)
Release of grants (1.7) (1.7)
Share based payments 1.7 1.5 
Proﬁt on disposal of depots (17.6) (18.2)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (13.8) (59.4)
R&D tax credits (0.8) (0.2)
Realised exchange loss on early loan note repayment and translation of foreign currency balances 0.8 0.8 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 15.4 (12.0)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 22.8 (20.8)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (51.0) 10.2 
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 35.3 (13.8)
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2015 (2014: nil). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 119
The numbers
33 Analysis of net debt
Consolidated
At 1 April
2014
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 67.3 (15.9) – (0.8) 50.6 
Borrowings (current) (25.3) 25.3 – – – 
Borrowings (non-current) (180.2) (69.0) – (14.0) (263.2)
Finance leases (1.8) 1.8 – – – 
Debt issuance costs 1.1 – (0.9) – 0.2 
(138.9) (57.8) (0.9) (14.8) (212.4)
Debt issuance costs excluded (1.1) – 0.9 – (0.2)
Impact of cross-currency swaps* (2.2) 2.1 – 14.0 13.9 
Net debt (142.2) (55.7) – (0.8) (198.7)
At 1 April
2013
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 276.1 (208.8) –  –  67.3 
Borrowings (current) (165.7) 159.4 (25.3) 6.3 (25.3)
Borrowings (non-current) (182.4) (36.0) 25.3 12.9 (180.2)
Finance leases (5.5) 3.7 –  –  (1.8)
Debt issuance costs 1.8 – (0.7) –  1.1 
(75.7) (81.7) (0.7) 19.2 (138.9)
Debt issuance costs excluded (1.8) – 0.7 –  (1.1)
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 17.8 – –  (20.0) (2.2)
Net debt (59.7) (81.7) –  (0.8) (142.2)
* The Group has $204.4 million and €10.7 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to ﬁx interest and principal repayments in 
Sterling (March 2014: $204.4 million and €41.3 million). Under IFRS, currency  borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-currency 
swaps are recorded at fair value and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group deﬁnes net debt so as to include the 
effective Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £13.9 million adjustment included in 
the above (March 2014: £2.2 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£145.4 million (March 2014: £156.8 
million)) to the ﬁxed Sterling liability of £131.5 million (March 2014: £158.9 million).
On 4 April 2014 there was a natural maturity of loan notes of (€30.6 million) £27.4 million.
Company
At 1 April
2014
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 1 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents – 0.2 – – 0.2 
Borrowings (current) (25.3) 25.3 – – – 
Borrowings (non-current) (144.2) – – (14.0) (158.2)
(169.5) 25.5 – (14.0) (158.0)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps (2.2) 2.1 – 14.0 13.9 
Net debt (171.7) 27.6 – – (144.1)
At 1 April
2013
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 1 March
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 14.8 (14.8) – – – 
Borrowings (current) (165.7) 159.4 (25.3) 6.3 (25.3)
Borrowings (non-current) (182.4) – 25.3 12.9 (144.2)
(333.3) 144.6 – 19.2 (169.5)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 17.8 – – (20.0) (2.2)
Net debt (315.5) 144.6 – (0.8) (171.7) 120 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
34 Corporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the Directors on 20 May 2015 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by 
Mr M Allen and Mr T Atherton. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United 
Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 121
The numbers
Consolidated income statement summary – continuing operations
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
Product group revenue
Cheese 223.1 229.6 231.3 264.6 274.4 
Spreads 183.2 211.3 194.5 177.4 170.0 
Dairies 1,089.8 1,069.0 951.6 944.8 881.6 
Other 6.1 4.8 4.2 4.2 3.8 
Group 1,502.2 1,514.7 1,381.6 1,391.0 1,329.8 
Product group proﬁt*
Cheese 28.0 35.5 33.1 39.3 33.1 
Spreads 18.6 23.2 25.5 16.8 33.8 
Dairies 27.1 10.2 9.8 18.8 1.8 
Associate (0.2) (0.3) – 0.3 –  
Group including share of associate 73.5 68.6 68.4 75.2 68.7 
Less: share of associate 0.2 0.3 – (0.3) –  
Group 73.7 68.9 68.4 74.9 68.7 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (0.3) (0.8) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Exceptional items (1.1) (93.9) (56.5) (10.4) (36.3)
Finance costs (20.6) (21.1) (18.7) (9.9) (8.1)
Other ﬁnance (expense)/income – pensions – 5.5 (3.5) (0.3) (1.8)
Share of associate net proﬁt/(loss) (0.2) (0.3) – 0.3 –  
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 51.5 (41.7) (10.7) 54.2 22.1 
Adjusted proﬁt before tax** 52.9 47.5 49.7 65.3 60.6 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangibles and investments 800.6 713.9 375.9 391.9 428.9 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income and provisions 21.9 45.8 74.1 109.6 116.2 
Total operating assets 822.5 759.7 450.0 501.5 545.1 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt 5.0 0.9 1.5 2.8 (1.3)
Tax (90.3) (70.1) (17.2) (15.0) (13.9)
Retirement obligations (60.1) (79.8) (67.2) (57.7) (41.4)
Net debt (311.6) (336.4) (59.7) (142.2) (198.7)
Shareholders’ equity 365.5 274.3 307.4 289.4 289.8 
Cash ﬂow summary
Generated from/(used in) operating activities 128.1 84.5 19.1 (13.8) 35.3 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (48.5) (53.1) (46.0) (58.8) (80.1)
79.6 31.4 (26.9) (72.6) (44.8)
Interest paid (19.8) (23.6) (18.0) (14.0) (10.5)
Taxation repaid/(paid) (16.1) (14.1) (4.7) 2.1 – 
Dividends paid (25.4) (26.5) (27.4) (28.5) (29.2)
Purchase of businesses and investments (0.1) (12.3) (0.6) – (0.1)
Other items (principally asset disposals) 7.4 20.3 354.3 30.5 28.1 
Movement in net debt 25.6 (24.8) 276.7 (82.5) (56.5)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (pence) 30.1 (29.1) (5.9) 35.8 15.0 
Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence)** 29.9 28.9 29.4 40.8 38.0 
* Proﬁt on operations before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
** Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest.
GROUP FINANCIAL HISTORY 122 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
Company Registrar and Shareholder Enquiries
If you have administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings  
in the Company, such as the loss of share certiﬁcates, change of 
address, dividend payment arrangements or amalgamation of 
accounts, please contact the Company’s registrar by writing to, 
Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or by telephone on (UK) 0371 664 9266.
Calls are charged at the standard geographical rate and will vary by 
provider. From overseas please call +44 800 181 4706. Calls from 
outside the UK are charged at the applicable international rate. Lines 
are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Capita also provides online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy, and there is no 
fee involved, simply access www.dairycrestshares.com
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a 
bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank mandate forms are available from 
Capita whose details appear above or you can register your 
mandate details online at www.dairycrestshares.com
Low cost share dealing service
If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy Crest 
has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Capita Share 
Dealing Services. Shareholders wishing to use the service should 
either visit the Capita Share Dealing website at www.capitadeal.com 
or call 0371 664 0445. Calls are charged at the standard 
geographical rate and will vary by provider. From overseas please 
call +44 203 367 2686. Calls from outside the UK are charged at the 
applicable international rate. Lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm 
Monday to Friday. 
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme – administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation – a registered charity. Information 
can be found at www.sharegift.org Telephone: 020 7930 3737.
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN.
Telephone: 01372 472200
e-mail: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk
Financial calendar
Dividends Final
Ex-dividend Thursday 2 July 2015
Record date Friday 3 July 2015
Payment date Thursday 6 August 2015
Group results (Anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2015
Preliminary Announcement 
of 2015/16 results May 2016
2015/16 Report and Accounts 
circulation  June 2016
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 20 May 2015
Holders
Number
% Shares %
Category      
Individuals and other holders 17,412 87.66 29,106,857 21.13
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks,        
nominees and limited companies 2,452 12.34 108,660,920 78.87
  19,864 100.00 137,767,777 100.00
Size of holdings      
Up to 5,000 shares 18,339 92.32 24,780,399 17.99
5,001 – 20,000 shares 1,297 6.53 9,801,177 7.11
20,001 – 100,000 shares 129 0.65 5,846,949 4.24
Over 100,000 shares 99 0.50 97,339,252 70.66
  19,864 100.00 137,767,777 100.00 This report is printed on Chorus Lux Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill.  Dairy Crest Group plc  Annual Report 2015
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors/
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2015
