 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
9.8mm spine Certain statements made in this report are forward looking statements. 
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a 
number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from any expected future results in forward looking 
statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or 
accounting standards, Darty plc does not undertake any obligation to 
update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of 
new information, future developments or otherwise.
04 08
10 12
14 16
26
 
Contents
Overview
01  Welcome
02  Highlights
03  Chairman’s statement
Strategic report
05  Our markets
06  Our business model
07  Strategy
09  Chief Executive’s review
17 Operating review
18  Financial review
21 Principal risks 
23  Corporate responsibility
Directors’ report
28 Board of Directors
30 Directors’ report
Corporate governance
34  Corporate governance
40  Report on Directors’ remuneration  
 and related matters
52 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements and notes (IFRS)
53  Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Darty plc
58 Group income statement
59  Group statement of comprehensive income
60   Group statement of changes in equity
61 Group balance sheet
62 Group cash flow statement
63  Notes to the financial statements
Darty plc (UK GAAP)
110  Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Darty plc
112 Company balance sheet
113   Notes to the Company 
financial statements
Other information
119 Shareholder information
120 Group five-year summary
 Online growth
Strong kitchens offer
Reducing  
environmental impact
Darty brand  
development
Successful franchise
operation
Improved  
customer offer
Expansion in  
the Netherlands Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 01
The Darty Group is a multi-channel electrical retailer 
trading from over 400 stores and websites. 
 
We sell a full range of electrical products from major home and small domestic appliances  
to all the latest vision and multimedia products. This is supported by our leading customer 
service offer in-store, online, for home delivery and after-sales.
We operate as Darty and Mistergooddeal.com in France, Vanden Borre in Belgium and BCC  
in the Netherlands.
* Including Mistergooddeal.com
** Including 43 franchise stores
France
*
Revenue  
(€m)
Revenue  
growth
Retail profit  
(¤m) 
Number  
of stores** 
Selling space  
sqm (000s)
Web sales  
(% of total sales)
2,813.5 3.5% 70.0 265 322.7 17.4
Belgium and the Netherlands
Revenue  
(¤m)
Revenue  
growth
Retail profit  
(¤m)
Number  
of stores 
Selling space  
sqm (000s)
Web sales  
(% of total sales)
698.6 1.7% 14.8 135 142.8 13.1
Overview
Welcome 02 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Overview
Highlights
Delivering our strategic plan – ‘Nouvelle Confiance’
• 
Investment in our growth initiatives: 
• 
39 franchise stores opened in the year  
delivering strong sales uplifts;
• 
Over 22 per cent increase in web generated 
sales in France following the acquisition of 
Mistergooddeal.com, bringing web penetration 
to over 17 per cent of product sales;
• 
Expanded the kitchen offer into 16 further 
stores to a total of 71 stores; and 
• 
Built on an improved performance at BCC 
with the acquisition of 18 profitable stores to 
become the leading multi-channel retailer in 
the Netherlands.
• 
Market outperformance in both France and 
the Netherlands. 
• 
Completed the elimination of losses in our  
non-core markets with the sale of our 
shareholding in Datart in the Czech Republic  
and Slovakia. 
• 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 
2.625 cents per share (2014: 2.625 cents) bringing 
the total dividend for the year to 3.5 cents per 
share (2014: 3.5 cents).
Financial summary for the 12 months ended 30 April 2015
Group 2014/15 2013/14 restated
1
Revenue €3,512.1m €3,404.4m
LfL sales (1.6)% 1.9%
Retail profit
2
€74.9.m €85.5m
Operating profit €60.3m €53.4m
Adjusted PBT
3
€51.3m €72.1m
Profit/(loss) for the year €13.8m €(6.6)m
Adjusted EPS
3
5.8 cents 6.5 cents
Basic EPS 2.7 cents (0.6) cents
Net debt €223.8m €185.2m
Total dividend 3.5 cents 3.5 cents
1 Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations,  
the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation and the legacy UK  
retirement benefit scheme expenses from finance costs to operating profit.
2 Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and 
associates’ interest and taxation, the movement in options and related charges over 
non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy 
UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items and amortisation and 
impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
3 Excludes the share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, the 
movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on 
disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme 
expenses, exceptional items, net interest on pension schemes and amortisation and 
impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
  Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 03
Overview
Chairman’s statement
We launched Nouvelle Confiance, our 
three stage strategic plan to restore 
shareholder value, nearly three years  
ago and we have successfully executed  
all the key components on schedule.
The first stage was to identify and 
eliminate the losses at our non core 
businesses in Italy, Spain, Turkey and the 
Czech Republic and Slovakia to refocus  
on our core markets in France, Belgium 
and the Netherlands. This process  
was completed in July 2014 with the 
disposal of Datart in the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia.
Having refocused the Group, we set out to 
create value from our market leadership 
position, drive greater efficiency and 
reduce costs and we devised a four point 
action plan (the ‘4Ds’) to:
• 
Drive trading by delivering on promise 
to customers;
• 
Digitalise Darty by further enhancing 
our multi-channel offer and leading 
websites;
• 
Develop our brand by improving our 
product and market leading service 
offerings as well as expanding our 
customer base; and
• 
Deliver cost efficiencies.
I am pleased with the continued success 
we have had and a full account of our 
activities and achievements can be  
found in the Chief Executive’s review. 
The third component of the plan was  
to identify future growth opportunities. 
We announced last year our initiatives 
to expand the Darty portfolio through 
a franchise operation, extend our ‘low 
price’ offer through the acquisition of 
Mistergooddeal.com and a progamme  
to increase the number of stores in France 
with the kitchen offer. We have been 
busy implementing all three programmes 
and I am pleased that during the last 
year we opened 39 franchise stores, 
integrated the Mistergooddeal.com 
business into Darty France helping us 
increase web generated sales by over 
22 per cent and expanded the kitchen 
offer by a further 16 stores to 71 stores.
We still have more to do to ensure  
growth in shareholder value but we 
have a strong platform for the future.
Given the progress we have made,  
the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 2.625 cents per share,  
bringing the total dividend for the year  
to 3.5 cents per share, reflecting our 
confidence in our ability to deliver 
improved results in the medium term.
Dominic Platt, our Finance Director for 
over five years, will be leaving the Group 
on 30 June and I would like to thank 
him for his valuable contribution to the 
business and wish him every success 
for the future. His successor Albin 
Jacquemont joined the Group in March 
and joins the Board as Finance Director 
on 18 June. He is already making 
a positive impact and I look forward to 
working with him over the coming years. 
Finally I must thank all our colleagues 
across the Group for their hard work 
and loyalty, particularly in these difficult 
trading times.
We have delivered on our Nouvelle Confiance plan 
and have a strong platform for the future.
Alan Parker CBE
Chairman  04 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Successful franchise operation
Our franchise programme is proving extremely successful and popular with both 
the franchisees and their customers.
The store owners are enjoying the benefit of the Darty brand with wider ranges, 
access to the full Darty service offer and Darty.com.
We now have over 40 stores in operation and are on track for 100 by 2016/17.
“ Typically my sales are up by  
50–75 per cent every month  
so I am very pleased to have  
joined the Darty store network.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 05
Strategic report
Our markets
We are the third largest specialist 
electricals retailer in Europe by sales. 
As of 30 April 2015, we continue to hold 
leading positions in the markets in which 
we operate. In France, we are the market 
leader, based on industry reports by 
GfK, with a 14.7 per cent share of the 
French electricals retail market, with an 
additional 0.4 per cent share coming 
from the acquisition of Mistergooddeal.
com. In Belgium we have 10 per cent 
share of the electricals retail market 
and in the Netherlands we have 5.6 per 
cent share of the Dutch electricals retail 
market. In the Netherlands following 
the acquisition of 18 stores from a 
competitor we are a leading multi-channel 
electricals retailer in the market.
In terms of product categories our 
brands tend to have a higher share 
in major home and small domestic 
appliances than vision, communication 
and multi-media product ranges.
We believe that our leading brand 
position in France, and in our other core 
markets, results from a combination 
of factors, including our reputation for 
quality and convenience, the range and 
diversity of our products and our
extensive network of stores situated in 
high traffic areas and leading websites. 
In France, our primary market, Darty is 
the most widely recognised electricals 
retail brand (Source: TNS Sofres, 
March 2015). It also has a significantly 
better image than its competitors for 
its stores and sales staff, choice of 
products and quality of service.
Our strong brand recognition and the fact 
that consumers associate our brand with 
choice, service and price competitiveness 
are key drivers of consumer interest in 
our products, visits to our stores and 
websites and our ability to generate 
high sales volumes and attractive 
margins. Our strong brand recognition 
also provides us with a solid platform 
to further expand both our product 
and service offering and our network 
of stores and e-commerce platforms.
2012/13
2012/13
2012/13
2013/14
2013/14
2013/14
2014/15
2014/15
2014/15
Market size €17.7 billion 
Market share %
Market size €3.9 billion Market size €6.1 billion 
France Belgium Netherlands
13.4
14.3
14.7
9.9
10.5
10.0
5.5
5.2
5.6 06 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strategic report
Our business model
We are the number one electricals retailer in France, the number two electricals retailer in Belgium and, following 
our recent acquisition, we are a leading multi-channel player in the Netherlands, our core markets. We operate 
under some of the most highly established brands in our sector . We display, sell, distribute and provide after-sales 
support for a wide range of electrical products and associated accessories and services, from major home and small 
domestic appliances to the latest vision and audio and telecommunication and multimedia products. We market  
and distribute our products through our network of 400 stores and leading websites and mobile applications.  
Business model Strategy 2014/15 progress Future opportunities KPIs
Market leading 
brands in our core 
markets in France, 
Belgium and the 
Netherlands
Identify and 
eliminate losses in 
non-core businesses 
and strengthen 
leadership positions 
in core markets
Completed the disposal of Datart in the 
Czech Republic and Slovakia
Acquired 18 profitable stores in Holland
Successfully opened 39 franchise stores
Ongoing review of market 
consolidation opportunities
Further roll-out of the 
Franchise model
Retail 
profit ¤m
Number of 
franchise 
stores
Unrivalled service 
offer before, during 
and after-sales
Drive trading by 
further improving  
our value added 
service proposition
Trialled and rolled out the successful new 
after-sales service initiative ‘Le Bouton’
Launched same day delivery and after  
sales service intervention
Continue to assess 
opportunities for extended 
service offers
LFL sales
Market 
share
Fully integrated 
multi-channel 
platforms 
comprising stores, 
websites and mobile 
applications
Digitalise Darty by 
further enhancing 
our websites 
and driving web 
generated sales
Expanded ‘Click and collect’ offer
Programme to equip staff with  
tablets and provide in-store WiFi
Information screens introduced to  
larger stores
Continue to exploit 
opportunities from new 
technology
Roll-out use of tablets  
for staff and in-store WiFi 
availability
 
Internet 
sales 
growth
Web-
generated 
sales
Extensive offer of all 
electrical products 
and accessories with 
all major brands 
and own-label and 
licensed ranges
Develop our brand  
by improving our 
product offerings  
and expanding our 
customer base
Integrated Mistergooddeal.com into  
the main Darty operation
Rolled out the kitchen offer to a  
further 16 stores
Further roll-out of the 
kitchen offer
Number 
of stores 
with the 
kitchen 
offer
Cost effective 
operations
Deliver cost 
efficiencies by 
implementing cost 
saving initiatives
Completed ¤50 million cost saving 
programme on schedule 
Ongoing cost efficiency 
with focus on after-sales 
service
Retail 
profit 
margin
A more detailed description of progress made during the year ended 30 April 2015 and our opportunities for growth can be found in the  
Chief Executive’s review on pages 9 to 15.  Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 07
RESEARCH
DELIVERY
STORE
ONLINE
PC
TABLET
MOBILE
ONLINE
PC
TABLET
MOBILE
CLICK AND
COLLECT
 INSTORE
WIDER CHOICE
EXPERT ADVICE
COLLECTION POINTS
SEE
TOUCH
PRICE COMPARISON
INSTALLATION
TAKE AWAY OLD APPLIANCE
INSTORE
I WANT TO BUY A WASHING MACHINE
Strategic report
Strategy
Multi-channel retailing
We want our customers to have a choice  
of how to research, buy and receive the 
products they want from our stores, 
websites and mobile apps.
Research – online from PCs, laptops, 
tablets and mobile phones or in-store. 
Buy – online, in-store or on the phone  
via our call centres.
Delivery – Home delivery, collect  
from our stores or collection points or  
take away from the store on purchase.
Being a multi-channel retailer we  
can reach more customers outside of  
our stores and we make more efficient  
use of the infrastructure of our stock, 
warehousing and home delivery,  
whatever the type of purchase.
In December 2012, we launched our 
‘Nouvelle Confiance’ strategic plan, the 
principal components of which were to:
• 
identify and eliminate losses at our 
non-core businesses and refocus on 
core markets;
• 
create value from our market 
leadership and efficiency savings; and
• 
identify future growth opportunities.
Following our exit from our businesses 
in the UK, Italy, Spain and Turkey, we 
completed the elimination of losses in  
our non-core markets with the disposal  
of our majority shareholding in Datart  
in the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 
August 2014. We are now totally focused 
on our core businesses in France,  
Belgium and the Netherlands.
In February 2015, our business in  
the Netherlands, BCC, completed the 
acquisition of 18 profitable stores from 
HiM Retail, strengthening its market 
position. The stores geographically 
complement the current portfolio and 
bring the total number of BCC stores to 
75, making it the leading multi-channel 
electrical retailer in the market. Most 
stores have now been rebranded to BCC 
and are showing on average a 15 per cent 
sales uplift.
The ‘4Ds’
In order to create value from our market 
leadership, drive greater efficiency and 
reduce costs, we developed a four-point 
plan (‘4Ds’), focusing on our principal 
business in France to:
Drive trading by delivering on our  
promise to customers;
Digitalise Darty by further enhancing  
our multi-channel offer and leading 
websites; 
Develop our brand by improving our 
product and market-leading service 
offerings as well as expanding our  
customer base; and
Deliver cost efficiency by  
implementing cost savings. 
1
2
3
4 “ A new after-sales service 
initiative ‘Le Bouton’ was 
launched in October offering 
customers immediate support  
at the touch of a button.”
08 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Darty brand development
This year we celebrated 40 years of the famous ‘Contrat de 
Confiance’, Darty’s price, choice and service promise to its 
customers. We took the opportunity to evolve this long heritage  
for service and modernised the brand’s image in keeping with  
the changing expectations of our customers and to raise our 
awareness even further. 
We have introduced a number of initiatives including instore 
Wifi availability, a very contemporary and widespread marketing 
campaign, a series of instore events and ‘Le Bouton’. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 09
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
Across the Group we delivered on new initiatives to 
improve our multi-channel proposition which led to 
market share gains in France and the Netherlands.
The ‘4Ds’
1 Drive trading
In a market that saw a small decline in 
France over the year we delivered further 
market share gains, kept footfall stable 
and improved our store conversion rate. 
During the period Darty held a number of 
events to drive trading. A successful 
World Cup campaign helped deliver 
strong vision sales during May and June 
and the July Sale received a positive 
response from customers. The ‘Back to 
school’ campaign run from late August 
through September, delivered sales below 
expectation due to limited stock and the 
January Sale was impacted by events in 
Paris at the beginning of the month. We 
supported these campaigns by weekly 
monitoring of our instore and online 
prices to confirm our competitiveness.  
On a ‘service included’ basis we continue 
to compare very favourably against all 
store based retailers and all web pure 
players and we have recovered our 
number one position in the TNS Sofres 
survey. In addition, during the year we 
celebrated 40 years of ‘Contrat du 
Confiance’, our price, choice and service 
promise to our customers, and we took 
the opportunity to simplify and modernise 
the Contrat providing us with a unique 
marketing platform.
As part of the Darty service offer, 
delivery, installation and after-sales 
service have historically been included  
for free with the majority of product 
purchases. A premium ‘paid for’ delivery 
is now available for specific two hour time 
slots from 7am to 9am, and 5pm to 9pm 
and ‘Chronopost’ next day delivery if 
ordered by 1pm for non-bulky items.  
In March we enhanced the service offer 
with ‘paid for’ same day delivery for large 
appliances in the Paris and Lyon regions, 
if ordered before 4pm and delivered by 
9pm, and in Paris same day after-sales 
service intervention if contacted by 4pm. 
As a result we have regained the leading 
position in home delivery and extended 
our lead against all our competitors for 
after-sales service (source: TNS survey).
After the end of the financial year we 
launched a new Store card, ‘Carte de 
credit connectée’, with the objective  
of providing customers with greater  
value beyond purely a financing  
solution. For a ¤15 annual fee, which  
is subsequently refunded in Darty 
vouchers, customers receive a Visa  
debit/credit card which is also a loyalty 
card. Every time a customer uses the card 
to complete three transactions worth  
over ¤50 each at Darty they will be given 
a ¤10 gift card. Additional benefits include 
free subscription to ‘Le Bouton’, our  
new 24/7 after-sales service initiative 
launched last year, special offers on 
products, VIP shopping evenings and 
access to flexible financing offers and  
free credit.
2 Digitalise Darty
As a successful multi-channel retailer,  
we continue to develop a seamless 
approach between our websites and 
stores. During the period we continued 
the programme of digitalising the  
store network which includes free WiFi, 
equipping sales staff with tablets to 
demonstrate products and provide price 
and availability and large display screens. 
By the end of the financial year we had 
digitalised 64 stores including two 
franchises, with over 1200 tablets being 
utilised by staff, and we had over 340 
screens across 30 stores. Throughout  
the year we saw an improvement in the 
level of sales made utilising a tablet to  
14 per cent of store sales, with the  
best stores approaching 40 per cent.  
We plan to digitalise a further 60 stores 
during 2015/16.
Visits to Darty.com grew over 22 per cent 
for the year to over 160 million and 
towards the end of the period the website 
was refreshed to improve its look, feel  
and content, making it more modern, 
clear and user friendly.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive 10 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Online growth
We have successfully grown our online business with a 22 per cent  
increase in web generated sales. The acquisition last year of 
Mistergooddeal.com is enabling us to offer a wider choice of  
price-entry products, attracting a more diverse customer base.
We have integrated the business into Darty, utilising our 
infrastructure and creating greater cost efficiencies.
“ This year in France we  
achieved a 22 per cent  
uplift in web generated  
sales bringing web  
penetration to over  
17 per cent of total  
products sales.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 11
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
 During the year we saw significant 
increases in penetration of our ‘Click and 
collect’ service, where customers can 
reserve online and collect an hour later 
from their chosen store, or from a Click 
and collect locker in certain high traffic 
stores. Penetration of Click and collect 
increased by 540 basis points to 20 per 
cent of web sales, with penetration 
reaching 30 per cent in the peak trading 
month of December compared to just 
over 20 per cent the prior year.
3 Develop our brand
Building on Darty’s long heritage for 
service and its famous ‘Contrat de 
Confiance’, a new initiative, ‘Le Bouton’, 
was launched nationwide in October.  
By pushing a dedicated wireless ‘button’ 
or via a mobile app, customers can make 
direct contact with Darty’s market leading 
after-sales service support, 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week. We aim for a 
service assistant to call the customer 
back within two minutes to assess  
and solve the problem either over the 
phone or by a subsequent home visit.  
The service is available for all electrical 
products but for those not originally 
bought from Darty or out of warranty 
there is a charge for any repairs required. 
The service is available for a small 
monthly subscription of ¤3/month, or  
¤8/month including multimedia products, 
plus ¤25 for the wireless button. Over 
35,000 buttons had been issued by the 
end of the year, including six, 12 or 24 
month subscription bundled with an 
extended warranty purchase. Our 
intention is to fully integrate the button 
into the extended warranty offer. 
As market leader in France we  
continue to receive support from  
leading manufacturers in gaining access 
to exclusive products, with particular 
emphasis on being ‘first to market’ for 
new products. During the period this was 
evidenced by significant sales of large 
screen OLED and Ultra HD/4K televisions, 
particularly ahead of the football World 
Cup in May and June. Increasingly 
connected products and dedicated areas 
in-store and online are being introduced 
into the offer for both the home and 
health, such as connected security, 
lighting, thermostats and fitness trackers.
As recognition for the recent progress  
we have made with the brand, our net 
promoter score increased over the second 
half of the year. We also won a number  
of awards during the year including one 
from LSA for our ‘Click & Collect’ service, 
the ‘Nuit des Rois’ digital marketing award 
for ‘Le Bouton’ and the ‘IREF Satisfactions 
Clients’ award for the electricals sector. 
In addition, we have seen improving 
colleague engagement through our 
annual staff opinion survey.
20 
PER CENT
penetration of Click and collect 
increased to 20 per cent of  
total web sales. 12 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Improved customer offer
We continually improve our offer to build customer loyalty and increase web 
and store traffic to keep one step ahead of the competition with a seamless 
approach between our websites and stores.
 
We are a true multi-channel retailer. Our customers can research for a product 
online or in our stores; buy online, in-store or by phone; and then obtain their 
product via either home delivery, collect from our stores or collection points  
or takeaway from our stores on purchase.
“ Over the last year in  
France we have recorded  
73 million visits to our  
stores and over 165 million  
visits to our websites.  
Customer information  
is gathered to provide  
a database for more  
specific and tailored  
marketing purposes.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 13
We are focused on building on our achievements  
to date by investing in our customer proposition, 
reducing the cost base and delivering improved 
profitability through our growth initiatives.
4 Deliver cost efficiency
Throughout the Group, we had targeted 
annual gross cost savings over three 
years of ¤50 million per annum by 
2015/16, from delivering a more efficient 
operating model, continuing to adapt our 
cost structure and leveraging synergies 
between our operating companies. To 
accelerate the achievement of the savings 
by 2014/15, a social plan was implemented 
in France last year and proceeded as 
planned. ¤30 million of benefits were 
achieved over the prior two years with the 
final benefit of ¤20 million achieved in full 
this financial year. Total Group underlying 
costs (excluding the Mistergooddeal.com 
acquisition) were down over 2 per cent 
(¤27 million) despite incremental costs 
related to our increased store activity. 
While this major programme has now 
been completed, we continue to work  
on all opportunities to improve cost 
efficiency in the business, with a 
particular focus in France in 2015/16 on 
the after-sales service infrastructure and 
increasing ‘Click and collect’ penetration 
to further reduce home delivery costs.
We also continue to manage our freehold 
property to ensure maximum value to the 
Group. Following over ¤45 million of total 
proceeds in the prior two years, ¤13.9 million 
was delivered this financial year, with a 
similar amount expected in 2015/16.
Growth initiatives 
In 2013 we identified and introduced 
initiatives to help secure our future 
growth, including:
• 
expanding the Darty portfolio into 
smaller catchment areas with the 
opening of franchise stores;
• 
extending our low price/pay-as-you-go 
services offer through the 
Mistergooddeal.com channel; and
• 
a programme to increase the number of 
stores in France with the kitchen offer.
Franchise stores
Darty is the market leader in France  
with 70 per cent of consumers within  
a 30-minute drive time of a store.  
The remaining 30 per cent of consumers 
represent an opportunity to further 
exploit the existing infrastructure of  
our multi-channel offer. Typically  
these consumers will reside in smaller 
catchment areas, usually below 100,000 
inhabitants where it is uneconomic to 
open a typical Darty store. To address 
these smaller catchment areas we 
established a franchise operation  
last financial year.
The independent owner invests to 
refurbish their own store to a Darty  
store, consistent in terms of both 
branding and offer with the rest of  
the store portfolio. We charge the 
franchisee for the supply of product 
ranges and provision of home delivery 
and after-sales services. A franchise  
fee is also charged for use of the brand  
and marketing support.
At the end of the financial year we  
had opened 43 stores including four 
overseas. Performance has been 
encouraging with significant sales uplifts 
and a net promoter score above the Darty 
average. We expect to open around  
25 additional stores in 2015/16, bringing 
the total to around 70 stores.
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
70 
PER CENT
of consumers are within  
a 30-minute drive time  
of a Darty store. 14 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strong kitchens offer
Thanks to improving the density of our merchandising in all other  
product categories, we now offer our bespoke kitchen range and  
service in over 70 stores, making sure we are capitalising on this  
fast growing area of the market.
 
Our medium term aim for the offer to be in 120 stores, in all  
catchments of over 200,000 inhabitants, is well on track.
“ The service and quality of 
Darty Kitchens is excellent.  
The price is good and the  
after-sales service and 
installation is very efficient  
and smooth.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 15
only 62 per cent compared to a European 
average of around 80 per cent and a 
growing electricals built-in market. At the 
same time, competitors are consolidating 
and, as Darty builds scale, consumer 
recognition of our kitchens offer is 
consistently improving year-on-year. 
As a result of increasing the density  
of merchandising in other product 
categories, we are now able to install  
the kitchen offer in smaller stores in  
the portfolio. We now have 71 stores with 
the offer generating over €80 million of 
revenue. Commercial initiatives during  
the year included interest free credit 
offers as well as a partnership with  
house builder, Bouygues Immobilier for 
customers to select a Darty kitchen to  
be installed in their new property. 
Given the acceleration of openings in  
the year, the time to reach maturity and 
pre-opening costs incurred ahead of the 
initial customer orders, a loss was made 
in 2014/15 of ¤4 million. At the end of the 
period a new catalogue was launched in 
print and online, featuring 32 different 
kitchen models, supported by a TV 
campaign from early May. With a further 
13 stores planned to have the offer in 
2015/16, together with changes to the 
management team, infrastructure and 
planned productivity improvements,  
we expect to move to profitability in  
the current financial year.
Outlook
Whilst we have started to see signs of 
improvement in consumer confidence,  
the product cycle will continue to have 
an impact on our markets which are 
expected to remain challenging. We are 
focused on building on what we have 
achieved through Nouvelle Confiance by 
investing in our customer proposition in 
all our businesses, reducing the cost base 
and delivering improved profitability.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
Mistergooddeal.com
To increase Darty’s share of the fast 
growing market for an entry price  
offer, we acquired Mistergooddeal.com  
towards the end of the last financial year. 
Mistergooddeal.com is a leading French 
electricals website, predominantly in 
white goods at the price entry end of  
the market, with no service included. 
We have retained the brand name and  
are extending the product offer with the 
introduction of our own label brands. 
Darty’s existing service infrastructure is 
now being used to offer Mistergooddeal.
com customers additional services on a 
pay-as-you-go basis, with home delivery 
being offered from October and all 
suitable Darty stores can now be used  
as customer collection points. 
Initial trading was weaker than expected 
due to very competitive activity in the 
entry price end of the market. With a new 
management team in place from October 
2014 we deepened and accelerated the 
integration of the business into the main 
Darty operation to help speed up and 
deliver further cost savings. The head 
office was integrated in January 2015 
followed by the IT and warehousing in 
April 2015. A new look website was 
launched at the end of the year, on 
Darty’s IT platform. We also made 
changes to the product offer, exiting 
non-core categories such as furniture and 
extending small domestic appliance and 
vision ranges. The retail loss for 2014/15 
was ¤7.7 million but with the actions being 
taken commercially and particularly on 
the cost base, we expect to approach 
breakeven for 2015/16.
Kitchens
Our kitchens business in France is an 
example of our ability to continually 
develop the Darty brand further, and 
move into a new, related product area, 
build a relevant market position and  
drive profitability. The kitchen market  
has solid fundamentals with the fitted 
kitchen equipment rate in France being 
16 
FURTHER STORES
expanded the kitchen offer into  
16 further stores increasing the 
total to 71 stores. 16 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
“ We now have 75 stores in the  
BCC chain and have become a 
leading multi-channel electrical 
retailer in the market.”
Expansion in the Netherlands
Our business in the Netherlands, BCC, has seen much better results 
recently and we have driven this further forward with the acquisition  
of 18 profitable stores from a competitor.
All these stores geographically complement the existing portfolio.  
They have already been refitted and branded as BCC and are  
leveraging the existing store and after-sales service support  
infrastructure in the Netherlands. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 17
France
Total revenue was up 3.5 per cent 
including Mistergooddeal.com and the 
franchise business and the Darty brand 
again outperformed the market for  
the period. Like-for-like sales fell  
2.0 per cent with trading up against 
strong comparatives from the prior  
year (like-for-like sales up 2.8 per cent), 
particularly in the second half.  
We saw continued strong growth in 
communications and white goods were 
also positive. The rate of decline in vision 
slowed significantly, with growth in May 
and June reflecting a successful football 
World Cup campaign with strong sales of 
new technologies (OLED and Ultra HD) 
and large screen sizes. We saw a fall in 
multimedia due to declining volumes and 
average selling prices for tablets and a 
poor digital camera market. 
Overall web-generated sales continued 
to grow, albeit in a slower market, 
to over 15 per cent of total product 
sales, and to over 17 per cent including 
Mistergooddeal.com. Click and collect 
at Darty.com was increasingly popular 
with customers, rising over 40 per 
cent to 20 per cent of web sales.
Underlying gross margin was down  
around 90 basis points reflecting 
competitive French market conditions not 
fully offset by an improving product mix. 
Overall gross margin for France was down 
around 180 basis points after taking 
account of the lower margin franchise and 
Mistergooddeal.com operations which 
had an impact on gross margin of  
70 and 20 basis points, respectively.
Underlying total costs (excluding 
Mistergooddeal.com) reduced by  
¤25 million, 3 per cent, reflecting the 
benefit of the cost programme 
implemented last year. Total costs  
were broadly flat.
Retail profit was ¤70.0 million compared 
to ¤87.2 million in the prior year. This 
included ¤7.7 million (2014: ¤0.9 million) 
retail loss for Mistergooddeal.com, a loss 
of around €4 million for the kitchen 
business, and a break-even performance 
from the franchise operation. 
During the period five stores were opened, 
six closed, five relocated, three extended 
and three rightsized or refurbished. We 
also opened 39 franchise stores and 
added the kitchen offer to 16 additional 
stores. Plans for 2015/16 are for six 
relocations, five refurbishments and four 
rightsizings. We expect to open around 
25 more franchise stores and introduce 
the kitchen offer to a further 13 stores.
Belgium and the Netherlands
At Vanden Borre in Belgium and BCC  
in the Netherlands overall revenue was  
up 1.7 per cent, and down 0.3 per cent  
on a like-for-like basis. Web-generated 
sales continued to grow strongly, up over  
20 per cent, to over 13 per cent of total 
product sales, with Click and collect  
sales up 10 per cent to over 27 per cent  
of web sales.
With a new local management team in 
place, BCC saw a continued improvement 
in performance, first seen at the end of 
last year. We saw positive like-for-like 
sales in store and particularly on the web, 
market share gains in all major product 
categories and an improved gross margin. 
The acquisition of 18 profitable stores 
Strategic report
Operating review
from a competitor completed in February, 
with the majority of stores converted to 
BCC by the year end. The acquired stores 
accounted for ¤8.0 million revenue in 
2014/15 and are expected to contribute 
around ¤45 million revenue in 2015/16. 
Earlier in the period Vanden Borre 
focused trading on margin in a more 
promotional market with, inevitably, some 
impact on revenue against a strong 
performance last year. The like-for-like 
sales trend improved in the second half of 
the year and web sales saw strong growth 
following the introduction of ‘next’ and 
‘same day’ delivery.
Overall gross margin saw a small 
improvement of 20 basis points, with  
total costs flat. Retail profit improved to 
¤14.8 million compared to ¤9.3 million in 
the prior year with a strong reduction in 
losses at BCC, even after incurring some 
acquired stores integration costs, and a 
further growth in profits at Vanden Borre.
Excluding the acquired stores there  
was one store closure at BCC and one  
new store opening at Vanden Borre.  
For 2015/16 we plan to close one store  
at BCC and open one at Vanden Borre.
18 
NEW STORES
We acquired 18 profitable stores  
in the Netherlands making us the 
leading multi-channel retailer in  
that market. 18 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strategic report
Financial review
Revenue and retail profit
Group revenue at ¤3,512.1 million, was  
up 3.2 per cent including Mistergooddeal.
com and the franchise stores. On a  
like-for-like basis Group revenue was 
down 1.6 per cent, with slower second 
and third quarters against much stronger 
comparatives from the prior year. In terms 
of product categories we saw continued 
strong growth in communications and 
white goods was also positive. The rate 
 of decline in vision slowed significantly, 
with growth in May and June reflecting  
a successful football World Cup campaign 
with strong sales of new technologies 
(OLED and Ultra HD) and large screen 
sizes. We saw a significant fall in 
multimedia due to declining volumes 
and average selling prices for tablets 
and a poor digital camera market. 
Our web-generated sales continued to 
grow and including Mistergooddeal.com 
were up over 22 per cent, now representing 
over 16 per cent of total product sales. 
Click and collect was increasingly 
popular with customers and represented 
over 24 per cent of all web sales.
Underlying gross margin declined by 
around 80 basis points for the period 
where we started to see some benefit 
from an improving product mix, but was 
insufficient to off-set ongoing product 
category margin pressure in challenging 
and promotional market conditions. After 
taking into account the business mix effect 
of the lower margin Mistergooddeal.com 
and franchise operations, total gross 
margin was down 150 basis points. 
Underlying costs, excluding 
Mistergooddeal.com, were down  
¤27 million, over 2 per cent, reflecting 
the benefits of our cost savings 
programme in France. Total costs including 
Mistergooddeal.com were broadly flat. 
Group retail profit was ¤74.9 million 
compared to ¤85.5 million for the same 
period last year, including losses of  
¤7.7 million from Mistergooddeal.com 
(2014: Retail loss ¤0.9m), an improvement 
in Belgium and the Netherlands from  
¤9.3 million to ¤14.8 million and a 
reduction in head office costs from  
¤11.0 million to ¤9.9 million.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items totalled ¤13.7 million 
(2014: ¤29.4 million). ¤14.5 million related 
to property charges and impairment 
costs in France, mainly as a result of a 
programme to improve store portfolio 
performance. ¤7.1 million related to 
reorganisation costs associated with 
integrating Mistergooddeal.com into the 
Darty business (¤4.8 million) and other 
reorganisation costs mainly relating to 
the transfer of some head office functions 
from London to Paris (¤2.3 million). 
In addition, there was a ¤7.9 million 
exceptional gain (¤6.4 million in France 
and ¤1.5 million in Belgium and the 
Netherlands) arising following the review 
of absorption of distribution costs into  
the carrying value of inventory.
Operating profit
Operating profit was ¤60.3 million (2014: 
¤53.4 million) with reduced exceptional 
charges off-setting a decline in retail profit.
Group revenue, including Mistergooddeal.com  
and the franchise operation, increased by  
over three per cent to €3,512.1 million.
Dominic Platt
Finance Director Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 19
Net finance costs 
The net finance costs were ¤23.6 million 
(2014: ¤13.4 million) excluding IAS 19 
pension interest of ¤3.8 million (2014:  
¤2.6 million). The net finance cost  
increase reflects the full year impact of the 
refinancing of the Group in February 2014. 
Adjusted profit before tax
The adjusted profit before tax was  
¤51.3 million (2014: ¤72.1 million).
Taxation 
The effective tax rate for the  
Continuing Group on adjusted profit 
before exceptional items, including the 
share of joint venture and associates’ tax 
was 23.2 per cent (2014: 44.4 per cent) 
and including the CVAE reclassification  
of €10.7 million (2014: €11.1 million)  
from operating profit to taxation was  
39.3 per cent (2014: 52.6 per cent).  
The decrease in tax rate from 2014 is  
due primarily to lower French group 
profits which being taxed at a higher rate 
than the group tax rate has a beneficial 
impact on the group tax rate. This impact 
is partially offset by an improved 
performance in the Netherlands  
where tax credits are not currently 
recognised on losses. 
The Company has received a demand 
from the French Tax Authority, claiming 
up to €15.3 million in unpaid taxes and 
penalties relating to the Group’s holding 
company structure. Extensive 
professional advice has been obtained 
and the Company believes it has a very 
strong defence and much of the claim is 
without merit. A provision has been made 
based on our best estimate of the 
expected outcome.
Based on a total charge of €18.7 million 
(2014: €27.4 million) the total tax rate 
is 55.3 per cent (2014: 71.7 per cent) on 
unadjusted profits, reflecting that tax 
relief is not recognised on all exceptional 
and other non-retail profit items. The 
effective tax rate for the continuing Group 
on adjusted profit before exceptional 
items, including the share of joint venture 
and associates’ tax is expected to be 
mid 30s per cent in 2015/16 including 
the CVAE charge of around €11 million.
Profit for the period
The profit for the period from continuing 
operations increased to ¤15.1 million  
(2014: ¤10.8 million). Loss for the period 
from discontinued operations reduced  
to €1.3 million (2014: loss ¤17.4 million).  
Total profit for the period increased to 
¤13.8 million (2014: loss ¤6.6 million).
Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share, excluding  
the IAS 19 net interest on pension 
schemes, was 5.8 cents (2014: 6.5 cents). 
Continuing basic and diluted earnings  
per share was 2.9 cents (2014: 2.1 cents). 
Cash flow 
Cash generated from operations was 
€60.7 million (2014: €18.4 million) 
principally as a result of a reduction in 
cash outflows related to discontinued 
operations. Net capital expenditure  
was €36.8 million (2014: €32.2 million), 
reflecting lower proceeds from property 
disposals of €13.9 million (2014: €29.7 
million). Proceeds from the sale of 
operations relating to the sale of  
Darty Turkey and Datart was €10.1 million.  
Cash costs of acquisitions mainly for 
stores at BCC in the Netherlands was  
€9.8 million. Interest paid was €22.9 
million (2014: €21.4 million) and tax paid 
was €21.2 million (2014: €9.9 million) 
reflecting phasing of payments in France. 
The dividend payment remained 
unchanged at 3.5 cents per share, but  
the strengthening of sterling against  
the euro for shareholders electing a 
sterling dividend payment increased the 
cash payment to €18.4 million (2014:  
€18.0 million). 
Net cash outflow from continuing 
operations was €30.9 million (2014: net 
cash inflow €18.0 million). Net cash outflow 
from the discontinued operations was  
€5.6 million (2014: €57.5 million). Total net 
cash outflow was €36.5 million (2014: 
€39.5 million). 
Net debt
Closing net debt was ¤223.8 million 
compared to ¤185.2 million on 30 April 
2014. As at 30 April 2015, ¤57 million  
was drawn under the Group’s committed 
facilities (30 April 2014: ¤20 million)  
in addition to the Group’s ¤250 million 
High Yield Bond.
Retirement benefit obligations
The IAS 19 net pension liability was  
¤103.4 million (2014: ¤104.6 million), split 
¤38.2 million (2014: ¤60.1 million) in the 
UK and €65.2 million (2014: ¤44.5 million) 
in France. The movement in the UK net 
liability benefitted from the performance 
of the assets outstripping liabilities. The 
deficit of the UK scheme in sterling was 
£27.9 million. 
The increase in the net liability in the 
French schemes mainly reflects a fall 
in corporate bond yields. The cash cost 
of the UK scheme was ¤12.9 million and 
the French scheme was ¤0.9 million.
Balance sheet
Following the disposal and closure of 
discontinued operations from 2012 
onwards including Comet, Darty Italy, 
Darty Spain and Darty Turkey and 
exceptional items from recent 
restructuring, we have reported net 
liabilities. At 30 April 2015 net liabilities 
totalled ¤323.9 million (2014: ¤316.9 
million). Under our accounting policies, 
freehold property is carried at cost.  
Our freehold property portfolio in  
France, representing in the main around 
one third of the store portfolio, has a 
carrying value of ¤102 million, compared 
with a market valuation of approximately 
¤350 million. In addition we carry no 
internally generated goodwill for our 
market leading brands.
Dividends
The Board is recommending an 
unchanged final dividend of 2.625 cents 
per share. The ex-dividend date will  
be 22 October 2015, the record date  
will be 23 October 2015 and the payment  
date will be 13 November 2015.
Financial presentation
Datart has been reclassified as a 
discontinued operation following the 
signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with SEW-1001 a.s. to sell  
the Group’s 60 per cent shareholding on  
22 July 2014. The prior year comparatives 
have been restated accordingly.
Two accounting treatments are possible 
for the business tax, CVAE (Cotisation sur 
la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises) – either 
as an operating expense or as income 
tax. In line with the treatment adopted 
by French retail listed peers the decision 
has been taken to reclassify from an 
operational expense in the retail profit of 
the France reported segment, to income 
tax. CVAE was ¤10.7 million for the year 
ended 30 April 2015 (2014: ¤11.1 million).
In addition, having reviewed possible 
treatments under IAS19 Revised, 
retirement benefit scheme expenses of 
¤1.3 million (2014: ¤1.4 million) relating 
to the legacy UK pension scheme have 
been reclassified from finance costs 
to operating profit in line with most 
common practice. These costs have 
been reclassified as an operating cost, 
outside of retail profit, as they relate 
to Comet, a discontinued business. 20 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strategic report
Financial review
Key performance indicators
Definition/source Performance
Sales:
Total revenue growth
 
Like-for-like sales growth
Like-for-like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full year 
and the first full four weeks of trading have passed. Stores where retail space has 
been added or where a complete format redesign (including addition of a mezzanine 
floor) has taken place, which involves material capital expenditure are excluded  
from like-for-like sales calculations. Sales through internet sites are included. 
Internet sales growth
Percentage increase in web-generated sales.
 
Multi-channel sales
Web-generated sales as a percentage of total product sales.
 
2015: 3.2%
2015: (1.6)%
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015: 22.2%
 
 
2015: 16.1%
 
2014: 0.8%
1
 
2014: 1.9%
1
 
 
 
 
 
2014: 12.2%
1
 
2014: 14.3%
1
Profitability:
Retail profit
Retail profit represents continuing Group total operating profit before the share  
of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, movement in options and 
related charges over non- controlling interests, impairment of available-for-sale 
financial assets, exceptional costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition 
related intangible assets.
2015: €74.9m 2014: €85.5m
1
Retail profit margin
Retail profit as a percentage of total revenue.
2015: 2.1% 2014: 2.5%
1
Adjusted earnings per share 
Excludes the effects of movement in options and related charges over  
non-controlling interests, realised losses on available-for-sale financial assets, 
exceptional costs, exceptional finance costs, tax effects of exceptional items, 
discontinued operations and amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets.
2015: 5.8 cents 2014: 6.5 cents
1
Cash flow:
Free retail cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations and net sale of business 
operations and subsidiary less net capital expenditure and investments.
 
2015: €25.6m
 
2014: (€1.2)m
Non-financial:
Market share
Share of the total electricals market in each country (source: GfK).
Franchise stores
Number of Darty franchise stores.
Kitchens
Number of Darty stores with a kitchen offer.
France 
2014: 14.3%
2015: 14.7%
 
2014: 4 
2015: 43
2014: 55 
2015: 71
Belgium
2014: 10.5%
2015: 10.0%
Netherlands 
2014: 5.2% 
2015: 5.6%
 
1 Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation and the legacy UK retirement benefit 
scheme expenses from finance costs to operating profit.
The Group manages its performance using these key performance indicators in place at a Group and business level.
Prior year KPIs have been restated for the new continuing Group to ensure like-for-like comparison.
The Group also has a set of non-financial KPIs; details of these are set out in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 23 to 27.
Dominic Platt
Finance Director Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 21
Strategic report
Principal risks
Risk Actions taken Actions to be taken
Legislative and regulatory risks
The Group’s operations are subject to 
extensive regulatory requirements, 
particularly in relation to its buying  
and selling products and after-sales 
services, its advertising, marketing 
and sales practices, its employment 
and pensions policies and planning and 
environmental issues. Changes in laws  
and regulations and their enforcement 
may adversely impact the Group’s 
operations in terms of costs, changes to 
business practices, and restrictions on 
activities. The Group’s businesses may 
also be adversely affected by changes 
in tax laws and increasing reviews by tax 
authorities of corporate tax plans.
Potential changes to legislation and regulatory 
requirements are monitored with the help of 
external advisers, and the business model and 
processes have been adapted to seek to  
minimise the impact of these changes. 
Have sought to ensure governmental and 
regulatory bodies understand the impact of 
current and proposed legislation on both the 
business and its customers.
Implemented packages for our customers, 
providing them with a wider range of services, 
not only repair services but also assistance in 
usage such as our Pack Serenity multimedia 
assistance service and ‘Le Bouton’.
Briefing sessions for key executives 
on the likely impact of legislative and 
regulatory change so there is sufficient 
time to develop action plans to mitigate 
any adverse effects. 
Continue to ensure legislators and 
regulators are aware of the potential 
impact of their policies.
Further development of additional 
service packages for our customers.
Economic environment
The economic environment can  
influence the level of consumer 
expenditure on electrical goods in a 
number of ways. It can also affect the  
level of promotional activity in the 
market, which impacts prices and 
margins. Other economic factors that 
may adversely affect sales include 
interest rates, government economic 
policy and levels of personal debt.
Deteriorating market conditions could 
adversely impact profitability and cash 
generation, and delay the delivery of 
growth in our core businesses.
 
The implementation of the ‘4Ds’ strategy has 
improved store footfall. Launched initiatives 
such as Darty Days, ‘Les Immediats’ and digital 
stores to improve trading. 
 
Offset some of the adverse effects by trading 
across a number of categories, as well as by 
further introducing new channels such as 
franchising.
 
Acquired Mistergooddeal.com to help  
address the increased demand for lower 
quartile products.
 
By taking corporate action, the losses incurred 
in Italy, Spain, Turkey and the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia have been eliminated. Losses in 
the Netherlands have been reduced.
 
Completed a refinancing of the Group’s debt 
facilities to secure long-term funding to support 
our future growth plans.
Continued to explore ways to improve our  
cash generation.
 
Continued roll-out of the ‘4Ds’ strategy.
Review of the store portfolio with a view  
to relocating poorly located stores.
Continued roll-out of the franchising
initiative.
Further integration of Mistergooddeal.
com into Darty France.
Seek solutions to ensure all businesses  
are more profitable.
Organisational and business change  
There are a large number of 
initiatives across the Group following 
implementation of the strategic review 
that could disrupt the business. The 
implementation of all of the initiatives 
may be delayed or hindered by a complex 
regulatory environment, social unrest 
and project management issues.
 
Implemented improved change and project 
management processes.
Ongoing dialogue with employees and unions.
 
Improve prioritising of initiatives.
Improved internal communications. 
The taking of risk is an inherent part of doing business and the skill in business is to manage risk effectively. 
The Board and senior management have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the business 
and actively manages those risks. Risk management is performed from both a top-down and a bottom-up 
perspective, ensuring that strategic and operational risks are appropriately addressed.
The principal risks and uncertainties to delivering our strategy are set out below together with an illustration of what actions are 
being taken to mitigate the effect of those risks on the business and its customers. 22 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strategic report
Principal risks
Risk Actions taken Actions to be taken
Information technology
A number of IT projects are planned to 
replace large legacy applications built 
for individual operating companies. If not 
properly planned and implemented, there 
could be significant interruption to the 
business and additional costs could arise.
The reliance on IT systems means the 
business can be severely adversely  
impacted if they fail.
The increased use of online payments and 
credit card payments has increased the 
risk of the loss of personal data. 
 
IT Project Committee established.
Plan put in place to prioritise removal of 
old applications.
Tested recovery plans across our business.
Reviewed robustness of current protections 
for customer personal data.
 
Enhance change management to prepare 
staff and processes for organisation and 
systems changes.
Plans to improve emergency and
disaster recovery plans. 
Continued monitoring and where 
necessary, altering systems and 
protections to meet changing threats.
Profit and cash
The level of profit margin in electrical 
retailing is significantly less than that 
of many other retailers and is largely 
determined by the market, consumer 
demand, manufacturer supply, competition 
and government regulations.
Industry practice has heightened the focus 
on supplier relationships and potential 
impact on financial reporting.
 
Protected margins, as far as possible, 
through buying arrangements and by 
maintaining an efficient sourcing operation.
Reviews have been made regarding  
revenue recognition and collectability  
of supplier rebates.
Cost structures have been actively managed 
in order to mitigate the impact of product 
margin erosion and increased improvement 
in working capital management.
 
Continued development of additional 
OEM, exclusive and licensed products.
Take legal action to protect our position 
where necessary.
Cost mitigation plans will continue to 
be implemented and focus on working 
capital management.
Reputational risks  
The Group’s success is dependent,  
in part, upon the strength of the  
Group’s brands and their reputation.  
The Group operates in an industry where 
integrity, customer trust and confidence 
are important and any adverse publicity 
concerning corporate behaviour, policies 
and strategies could damage that 
customer trust and damage the Group’s 
reputation and brands.
 
A number of internal controls and  
processes have been put in place to try  
to limit the number and harmful effect  
of such incidents.
 
Regular reviews of the likely threats to 
reputation, together with monitoring  
of the media, including social media.
Pension scheme liabilities
Following the sale of Comet, the UK 
defined benefit scheme for Comet 
employees was retained by the Group. 
There is a smaller defined benefit scheme 
in France for senior Darty employees. 
Both schemes are currently in deficit. 
These deficits are volatile as a result of 
changes in the assumptions regarding 
life expectancy, discount rates (based 
on gilt yields and company covenant), 
inflation and future salary increases, risks 
regarding the value of investments and  
the returns derived from such investments. 
Adverse movements in these assumptions 
could increase the deficit, increasing the 
funding requirement to the schemes  
from the Group.
 
A number of deficit mitigation measures 
have been undertaken, and will be taken  
in the future, to reduce both the size of  
the deficit and its volatility.
Triennial valuation agreed in the UK.
 
Continue to examine strategies and 
additional opportunities to mitigate  
the deficit in both the UK and France. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 23
Strategic report
Corporate responsibility
It has long been our belief that good CR 
practice makes sound financial sense. 
However, a ‘one size fits all’ approach is 
not appropriate because of the different 
sizes of our businesses. Therefore the 
majority of our activities are locally 
driven, reflecting customer demands and 
market sensitivities. However, there is a 
CR team comprising senior managers 
from each of the businesses. Chaired by 
the Company Secretary, the team meets 
to share best practices and develop 
practical performance measures that can 
be adopted across the Group.
Our initiatives fall into four key areas:
Environment
Improving the Group’s use of energy,  
the impact of our transport fleet and  
our use of bulk materials such as paper 
and packaging, by minimising waste, 
increasing energy efficiency and reducing 
our consumption of materials.
Supply chain
Improving labour, environmental and 
social practices in the Group’s supply 
chain as well as ensuring that our 
suppliers and business partners are made 
aware of our requirements and take all 
reasonable steps to ensure they are met.
People
Providing a working environment that  
is conducive to the recruitment and 
retention of the widest possible range of 
talented staff; and offering them a safe 
and healthy place of work – we aim to be 
recognised as a good employer seeking  
to reward people fairly and to provide 
equality of opportunity, personal 
development and training.
Communities
Working for our customers and local 
communities, contributing to community 
activities in the areas we serve; and 
supporting and encouraging staff fundraising 
for appropriate charitable organisations.
Environment
As an electrical retailer we have a 
relatively low direct environmental 
impact, but we still seek to minimise  
the environmental impact of all our 
operations throughout the Group. We also 
want to ensure that neither our products 
nor our operations adversely affect the 
health of our customers, our employees 
or the community at large.
As one of Europe’s market leaders in 
large white goods, we specialise in 
offering our customers specific advice  
on the energy efficiency of our ranges. 
This enables them to make informed 
buying decisions in terms of power  
and water consumption. We also offer 
practical advice in-store and on the web 
on how to use the products in the most 
efficient way and we help dispose of  
them at the end of their lives.
This programme is tailored to each of our 
markets and is currently in its most advanced 
stages of implementation at Darty in France 
and has been, in part, adopted across all 
the Group. We were one of the first retailers 
to test the energy efficiency of all televisions, 
DVD players and computers that we sell  
and then promote the better performing 
products. Darty France has a dedicated 
section on its website, Darty.com, on 
environmental matters. Since September 
2012, practical advice is given to customers 
to help them calculate their energy and 
water consumption on over 1,000 products 
including refrigerators, washing machines, 
dishwashers and TVs. This was extended to 
tumble dryers and wine coolers during 2013.
This financial year, Darty France launched 
a simulator for energy savings accessible 
on the Darty.com site to allow customers 
to estimate the energy consumption of 
their devices and evaluate the savings  
if they opt for their replacement.
A major Group strength, with our significant 
home delivery network, is our ability to 
facilitate the recycling of large white goods, 
helped by our efficient ‘reverse logistics’ 
capability. The ongoing rapid development 
of new technology creates increasing high 
levels of hazardous electronic and electrical 
waste, which is the background for the 
WEEE Directive. Its aim is to minimise the 
impact of electrical and electronic equipment 
on the environment when those products 
eventually become waste. In order to sell 
products within the EU manufacturers 
must demonstrate compliance with the 
regulations. This means that electrical 
retailers must offer take back facilities  
to cover all categories including smaller 
appliances such as kettles and microwaves.
The newer A++ brands use up to 44 per 
cent less energy than products sold 10 
years ago. While hand washing the dishes 
can use up to 50 litres of water, a modern 
dishwasher uses just 13 litres, and some 
models use just six litres.
Darty France offers to take away two 
items for recycling free of charge if it 
makes a home delivery for large white 
goods. The collected items are sorted  
in 72 collection sites where they are 
dismantled. In the 12 months to December 
2014, Darty France collected 40,675 
tonnes of product for recycling, the 
equivalent of over 1.19 million appliances. 
These were recycled into 21,182 tonnes  
of scrap metal, 6,130 tonnes of plastic  
and 3,100 tonnes of glass and similar 
items and saved 26,405 tonnes of  
CO
2
 emissions, and achieved a similar 
performance in 2013.
As a specialist electrical retailer Darty is well placed  
to manage an effective approach to corporate 
responsibility (CR) that is compatible with profitable 
growth and enhances brand equity. 24 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strategic report
Corporate responsibility
All the stores in Darty France have 
dedicated recycling bins with separate 
compartments for mobile phones, small 
appliances, batteries, and ink cartridges. 
Darty France also collected 18 tonnes of 
batteries, and 6 tonnes of ink cartridges. 
With the ‘1 for 0’ scheme, Darty France 
collects all materials, with or without 
purchase from its stores or website.
Vanden Borre in Belgium recycles  
 55 per cent of the products it collects 
when making a home delivery. 
 
BCC received an eco-certificate for its 
sustainability performance in the field  
of waste management, reducing the 
impact of its waste on the environment  
by 46 per cent by reducing and 
separating waste.
We believe that together this makes 
us one of the leading recyclers of MDA 
products in Europe; it sets us apart from 
many pure web players in particular.
We also aim to reduce the amount of 
packaging we use and ensure that it can 
be recycled. We collect all waste packaging 
when delivering a household appliance 
unless the customer requests otherwise. 
At Darty France, Vanden Borre and BCC 
we have specialised equipment that 
compresses all polystyrene packaging 
collected from customers’ homes for 
recycling or reuse as garden furniture. 
At most of our operating companies, 
packaging waste is also collected from 
the warehouses and after-sales service 
centres; annually we recycle over 
40,000 tonnes of packaging waste. 
We report our emissions data using an 
operational control approach to define 
our organisational boundary, which 
meets the definitional requirements 
of the regulations in respect of those 
emissions for which we are responsible. 
We have reported on all material emission 
sources that we deem ourselves to be 
responsible for. These sources align with 
our operational control and financial 
control boundaries. We do not have 
responsibility for any emission sources 
that are beyond the boundary of our 
operational control. For example, business 
travel, other than by car (including 
commercial flights), are not within our 
operational control and therefore are 
not considered our responsibility.
Supply chain
Our customers expect us to have 
procedures in place to ensure that the 
products we sell have been ethically 
produced and handled from the beginning 
right through to the end of the supply 
chain. Many of our electrical products  
are sourced through major international 
brands who have their own strong ethical 
and environmental policies in place. We 
do not have significant operations or 
retail outlets in countries that present a 
material risk from bribery or corruption, 
poor labour standards or restrict civil  
or political rights. However, some of  
our suppliers do.
There has been continued external 
attention and debate on the role of 
business and human rights. We welcome 
this focus as respect, fairness and 
integrity are an important part of the 
responsible way we run our business. We 
are committed to doing things the right 
way and this is reflected in our values and 
our Code of Conduct, which is available on 
our website. A respect for human rights 
is implicit in our employment practices 
and are within the high standards we 
expect from our suppliers. We continue 
to be guided by the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) core conventions and 
the recommendation of Professor John 
Ruggie, the UN Special Representative 
for human rights. In some areas, such 
as the elimination of child labour, 
our direct influence can be limited 
and in these situations our focus on 
partnerships is of critical importance.
We also work with our suppliers to 
help them reduce their impact on the 
environment and to manage the challenges 
of sustainable growth. The Group 
sources its own-label products principally 
from factories based in China that are 
committed to improving workers’ welfare 
and reducing environmental impact.
Our audit procedures are benchmarked 
against leading international test 
houses, and are designed to ensure 
proper environmental standards are 
adhered to by our own-label suppliers 
in our factories and additionally to 
monitor the quality of our products.
We have an experienced quality team 
based in China with expertise in quality 
assurance to support our own branded 
products. In 2014, we carried out new 
qualification audits as well as two yearly 
surveillance audits on the 195 factories 
we use in South-East Asia. This is to 
ensure that our suppliers meet the strict 
social, environmental and supply chain 
standards we require. In 2014, a total of 
100 audits were undertaken. In addition, 
the team carried out over 4,000 Final 
Random inspections. 
Before shipment of any OEM product  
is allowed, the quality assurance  
team evaluates the product with 
comprehensive CE certification from 
approved European Notified Bodies.  
Any supplier who fails to meet our  
quality standards is delisted.
In 2014, a new programme was launched, 
to provide regular checking on the 
soon-to-be effective safety standards  
for our product range. This programme 
allows Darty to be at the leading edge  
in managing the impact in advance of any 
new changes related to compliance and 
testing concerns.
In addition, as a further environmental 
measure we are consciously trying to 
minimise the emissions from our transport 
operations. We continue to modify our 
logistics operation to achieve a more 
efficient use of the transport fleet and 
make use of satellite navigation systems 
to improve their delivery schedules. This 
not only reduces the distance the vans 
and lorries travel but also provides our 
customers with more predictable arrival 
times. The Group is constantly exploring 
new initiatives that make good CR sense 
while benefiting the businesses. At Darty 
France we have a programme of enhanced 
driver training, with the aim of reducing 
fuel consumption and CO
2
 emissions 
by some 15 per cent. Further savings 
have come from the introduction of new 
delivery vehicles with Euro 5 engines and 
‘Stop and Start’ technology. Increased 
use of call centres and development of 
a database on repairs that provides first 
level resolution has led to less vehicle 
journeys to customers’ homes, not 
only improving our customer service, 
but also reducing our CO
2
 emissions. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 25
People
As a specialist retailer committed to  
the best customer service, one of our  
key differentiators and strengths is our 
people. We have over 12,600 employees 
across Europe and Asia and we want  
them all to have satisfying and rewarding 
careers within the Group. By respecting 
and valuing our employees we engage 
their talents and abilities to the fullest 
extent. We also realise that a well-trained 
workforce is a key differentiator and we 
therefore put great emphasis on our 
training programmes to improve store 
staff product knowledge. Darty France 
has online modules for staff training and 
is looking to expand them further to cover 
home delivery and after-sales service.  
A programme to refurbish staff break 
rooms and ensure there is access to a  
PC for training and personal use has been 
completed in France.
We now have platforms across the whole 
Group for our employees’ opinions to be 
heard and we value their input on how 
the business is being run. The first ever 
employee survey for all the companies 
in the Group was undertaken in 2012 
and all our employees now regularly 
participate in an employee survey. 
Our communication channels include 
regular workers’ councils where issues 
are discussed with representatives from 
across the organisation. We also have 
many other forums for discussion that 
allow management to take a wide range 
of viewpoints into account. We promote 
the health, safety and welfare of both 
colleagues and customers across all our 
sites and we monitor and report to our 
Director of Risk Management and Audit 
on these issues. We have established a 
written set of Operating Principles and a 
Code of Conduct that outlines the ethical 
Table 1. Global GHG emissions data for Reporting Year  
1st January 2014 – 31 December 2014 
Emissions from: Tonnes of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities (Scope 1) 19,526
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use (Scope 2) 18,079
T&D losses from electricity (Scope 3) 1,130
Total 38,735
Intensity metric: tonnes CO
2
e / Million EUR revenue (€m) 11.38
Table 2. Year on Year Comparison
Emissions from:
Tonnes ofCO
2
e
Percentage
change (%) 2013* 2014
Scope 1 21,535 19,526 -9%
Scope 2 20,775 18,079 -13%
Scope 3 1,156 1,130 -2.2%
Total 43,466 38,735 -11%
Intensity metric: tonnes CO
2
e /  
Million EUR revenue (€m) 12.19 11.38 -6.6%
* 2013 emissions have been re-stated in light of more accurate consumption data.
Methodology
We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources fall 
within our consolidated financial statement. We do not 
have responsibility for any emission sources that are not 
included in our consolidated statement.
The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is 
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), together with the latest 
emission factors from recognised public sources  
including, but not limited to, Defra, the International 
Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Administration, 
the US Environmental Protection Agency and the 
Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
Male Female
Company directors* 8 2
Other senior managers** 4 1
All employees*** 6,988 3,475
* Company directors consists of the Company’s Board, as detailed on pages 28 and 29.
** Other senior managers is as defined in The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013, and includes: i) persons responsible in France for planning, directing or controlling the activities  
of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the Company, other than Company directors; and ii) any other 
Directors of under- takings included in the consolidated accounts.
*** In France.
standards we expect from all employees of 
companies within the Group. This includes 
both permanent and contract staff and any 
external consultants or suppliers we retain.
Diversity
The table below provides a breakdown of 
the gender of Directors and employees as 
at 30 April 2015.
Our people are instrumental to our 
success; we respect and value the 
individuality and diversity that every 
employee brings to the business.  
We base our relationship with our 
employees on respect for the dignity  
of the individual and seek to create a 
positive, open working environment 
wherever we operate. As at 30 April  
2015, 67 per cent of our workforce  
were male and 33 per cent female. 
In terms of the Group’s Board of 
Directors, there were 10 Directors,  
eight of whom were male and two  
were female (see page 29 to view 
biographies of the members of  
the Board).
  26 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
“ As an electrical retailer,  
we have a relatively low 
direct environmental  
impact but we still seek to 
minimise the environmental 
impact of all our operations 
throughout the Group.”
Reducing environmental impact
At Darty France, Vanden Borre and BCC we have specialised equipment that 
compresses all polystyrene packaging collected from customers’ homes for 
recycling or re-use as garden furniture.
Waste is also collected from the warehouses and after-sales service centres; 
annually we recycle over 40,000 tonnes of packaging waste. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 27
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
Strategic report
Corporate responsibility
Communities
As a Group, we are committed to  
working with the many communities  
we are represented in. We work in 
partnership with outside organisations  
to address a number of long-standing 
social issues and we support a range of 
different charities on a regional basis.
Darty France has a long-standing 
reputation for helping the disadvantaged. 
Through the ENVIE programme 
(Enterprise Nouvelle Versl’Insertion  
par L’Economie) over 6,000 previously 
long-term unemployed have been trained 
in the repair of electrical products. During 
a two-year programme, trainees practise 
on end-of-life products collected from 
customers. Once repaired, these are then 
sold from ENVIE stores at heavily 
discounted prices. Darty France annually 
donates ¤60,000 to Telemaque, which 
promotes access to jobs for less 
advantaged youths, and encourages 
Darty employers to become tutors.
Vanden Borre and Darty France raise 
funds for charities through the sale of toy 
models of their after-sales service vans.
Performance criteria
1 The number of days spent on  
staff training
 As a specialist electrical retailer, it is 
important that we create a working 
environment that is conducive to the 
recruitment and retention of talented 
staff who have excellent customer 
service skills and product knowledge.
2 The number of accidents  
or injuries to staff
 The provision of a safe and healthy 
place of work for our staff is a primary 
concern and key responsibility.
3 The percentage of energy  
efficient A-rated products sold
 Energy label ratings on fridge freezers 
help our customers choose more 
efficient models. A-rated products use 
the least amount of energy thereby 
benefiting both our customers and  
the environment.
4 The number of tonnes of packaging 
waste collected and recycled 
 Through our distribution channels 
and warehouses we can efficiently 
collect our own and customers’  
waste for recycling.
By order of the Board
Simon Enoch
Secretary
17 June 2015
Registered office:
22-24 Ely Place
London EC1N 6TE
Continuing Group
12 months to 
30 April 2015
12 months to 
30 April 2014
12 months to 
30 April 2013
Staff training days 25,035 24,420 27 ,892
Accidents/injuries 1,009 955 1,167
A-rated products sold 98.4% 98.2% 96.2%
Package waste recycled 
(tonnes) 43,908 42,932 42,913
6,000 
TRAINED
Through the ENVIE programme  
over 6,000 previously long-term 
unemployed have been trained in  
the repair of electrical products. 28 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Directors’ report
Board of Directors
1
4
7
2
5
8
10
3
6
9
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Stockbrokers
UBS
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
Registered office 
22–24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE Simon Enoch
Secretary
Registrars and transfer office 
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Audit Committee 
Alison Reed (Chairman) 
Antoine Metzger
Agnès Touraine
Remuneration Committee 
Michel Léonard (Chairman) 
Alan Parker CBE
Pascal Bazin
Nomination Committee 
Alan Parker CBE (Chairman) 
Michel Léonard
Régis Schultz 
Dominic Platt 
Alison Reed 
Pascal Bazin
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo 
Antoine Metzger 
Agnès Touraine Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 29
1. Alan Parker CBE (68)
Chairman
Alan Parker was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of Darty plc on 9 August 2012, 
having served on the Board of Kesa 
Electricals plc since 1 October 2010.
Alan is also Non-Executive Chairman of 
Mothercare plc, Chairman of Park Resorts, 
Non Executive Director of Restaurant 
Brands International, President of the 
British Hospitality Association and Board 
member/investor of Winnow Solutions.
Alan was Chief Executive Officer of 
Whitbread plc from 2004 and retired 
in November 2010. During his tenure 
as CEO he led a substantial increase in 
shareholder value and created the UK’s 
largest hospitality company expanding 
Premier Inn in the UK and developing 
the global Costa coffee brand. Prior to 
joining Whitbread in 1992, Alan was based 
in Brussels and Frankfurt as Holiday Inn 
EMEA Managing Director. Alan has also 
served on the Boards of Jumeirah Group 
LLC, VisitBritain, and was on the Board of 
Burger King Worldwide prior to its merger 
with Tim Horton’s in December 2014 
forming Restaurant Brands International.
2. Régis Schultz (46)
Chief Executive
Régis Schultz was appointed as Chief 
Executive on 23 April 2013. He joined from 
BUT, the French furniture and electrical 
retailer, where he had been Chief Executive 
since 2008. During his time at BUT Régis 
led a major renewal of the product offer 
and store formats, delivering both market 
share and profit improvement in a difficult 
trading environment. Prior to BUT he held 
a number of senior positions at Kingfisher 
plc, including Chief Operating Officer for 
B&Q. He holds an MSc in Management, 
from the Dauphine University, Paris.
3. Albin Jacquemont (50)
Finance Director (from 18 June 2015)
Albin Jacquemont joined the Group 
from Carrefour in March 2015 and will be 
appointed as Finance Director on 18 June 
2015. He joined Carrefour in 1998 and was 
appointed as Chief Financial Officer for 
Carrefour France in November 2011. Prior 
to this he held a number of senior roles 
in Carrefour including Group Controller 
and Consolidation Director and Chief 
Financial Officer of Carrefour Poland. Prior 
to Carrefour he held a number of finance 
positions at Lyonnaise des Eaux, where he 
joined from auditors Arthur Andersen.
4. Dominic Platt (45)
(Finance Director and  
Managing Director International  
until 18 June 2015)
Dominic Platt was appointed Finance 
Director of Kesa Electricals on 4 January 
2010. Between 4 January 2013 and 23 
April 2013 he was acting Chief Executive. 
He will leave the Board on 18 June 2015. 
Dominic joined Cable and Wireless in 1991 
and held increasingly senior roles including 
Manager of Corporate Finance, CFO Japan 
and Asia, Group Director of Internal Audit 
and from 2005 Group Financial Controller. 
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants and has an MA  
in Classics from Cambridge University.
5. Pascal Bazin (58)
Non-Executive Director
Pascal Bazin was appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 15 October 
2012. He is a Non-Executive Director of 
three private companies and was most 
recently Chief Executive of Avis plc where 
he oversaw a very successful turnaround 
of the business. He left at the end of 2011 
following the sale of the business to Avis 
Budget Group Inc. Previously President of 
Avis France, he managed the recovery of 
the French business, regaining its market-
leading position. Prior to this he spent 
some 16 years at Yves Rocher in a variety 
of international and technology roles, 
and was at PPR for five years. Pascal is a 
Graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique, Paris.
6. Carlo D’Asaro Biondo (50)
Non-Executive Director
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director on 30 October 
2012. He is also President Southern and 
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 
Operations for Google and has previously 
served as Chief Executive of AOL Europe 
and International Managing Director of the 
media group, Lagardère. He is also a Non-
Executive Director of Mantuan International 
SA. He has a Doctorate in Economics from 
the Universita La Sapienza in Rome.
7. Michel Léonard (64)
Senior Independent Director
Michel Léonard was appointed Senior 
Independent Director on 8 August 2012, 
having been a Non-Executive Director 
since 8 February 2010. He is also Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. Michel 
joined the Bongrain Group in 1985 as 
General Manager. He then moved on to 
become Chairman of the Management 
Board of Bongrain Europe until 2000 and 
then lastly in 2000 became Chairman 
of the Management Board of Bongrain 
Group until 2003. From 2003 to 2009 
he was Chairman of the Lactalis Group 
Management Board. Michel is a graduate 
of HEC School of Management, Paris.
8. Antoine Metzger (61)
Non-Executive Director
Antoine Metzger was appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 15 October 2012. 
He is also a director of a non-listed company 
in France. He retired as Deputy Chief 
Executive at Vivarte, the French fashion 
retailer in March 2013, having previously 
served as Secretary General since joining in 
2000. Prior to this he had various finance, 
planning and legal roles at Rank Xerox, 
and was CFO at La Redoute and Redcats. 
Antoine is a graduate of the HEC 
School of Management, Paris.
9. Alison Reed (58)
Non-Executive Director
Alison Reed was appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 8 February 2012 
and is Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Alison is a Non-Executive Director and 
Deputy Chairman of British Airways Plc,  
she is also a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee at  
DRS Data and Research plc. Her previous 
experience includes 21 years with  
Marks & Spencer plc, ultimately as 
Chief Financial Officer; Chief Financial 
Officer of Standard Life plc with 
responsibility for the flotation and a Non-
Executive Director of HSBC Bank plc.
10. Agnès Touraine (60)
Non-Executive Director
Agnès Touraine was appointed as a  
Non-Executive Director on 30 October 
2012. She is also the President of Act III 
Consultants, having previously served 
as Chief Executive of Vivendi Universal 
Publishing and Games, Hachette 
Consumer Group after having started 
her career at McKinsey. She is also a 
Non-Executive Director of Neopost SA 
and Belgacom SA and is President of the 
Institut Français des Administrateurs. 
She has held Non-Executive Director 
positions at ITV plc, Cable and Wireless 
plc and Lastminute.com. Agnès Touraine 
has an MBA from Columbia University, a 
law degree from la Sorbonne University 
and graduated from Science Po Paris. 30 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Directors’ report
Directors’ report
The Company has chosen, in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 section 
414C(11), to include the disclosure of likely 
future developments in the Strategic 
report on pages 5 to 27. Information on 
environmental matters and disclosures 
relating to diversity, gender and human 
rights are contained in the Corporate 
responsibility report on pages 23 to 27. 
The key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) 
and the Principal risks and uncertainties 
contained therein, are incorporated into 
this report by reference. Definitions of 
the KPIs and the Group’s performance 
against them are given on page 20.  
The Principal risks and uncertainties  
are set out on pages 21 and 22. Details of 
the Company’s policy on addressing such 
risks, along with information on the  
Darty Risk Management Framework can 
be found in the Corporate governance 
report on pages 34 to 39.
 
Profit and dividends
Group revenue was ¤3,512.1 million (2014: 
¤3,404.4 million), with Group retail profit 
of ¤74.9 million (2014: ¤85.5 million). The 
profit before tax was ¤32.9 million (2014:
¤37.4 million).
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents per 
share was paid to the ordinary 
shareholders of the Company on 1 April 
2015 and, on 18 June 2015, the Directors 
recommended the payment of a final 
dividend of 2.625 cents (2014: 2.625 
cents), giving a total dividend for the year 
of 3.5 cents (2014: 3.5 cents).
The final dividend, once approved, will  
be paid to those persons on the Register 
of Members at the close of business on  
22 October 2015, and the payment date 
will be 13 November 2015.
Principal activities
The Group is a multi-channel electrical 
retailer that operates through the 
following operating segments: France 
(Darty and Mistergooddeal.com) 
and Belgium (Vanden Borre) and 
the Netherlands (BCC). The majority 
shareholding in the operations of Datart 
in Czech Republic and Slovakia was 
sold on 7 August 2014 and it is now 
treated as a discontinued operation.
Business model
Our business model revolves around 
our strategy outlined in the Strategic 
report on pages 5 to 7, focussing on 
restoring profitability and establishing 
the foundations for long-term success 
and rebuilding shareholder value 
for Darty, Vanden Borre and BCC.
Strategic report
In accordance with the new requirements 
introduced by The Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013, which became effective 
on 1 October 2013, the Directors have 
included certain information required 
for disclosure in other sections of the 
Annual report. These sections include the 
Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s 
review, Operating review, Financial 
review, Corporate responsibility report, 
Corporate governance, Directors’ 
remuneration report and the Group 
financial statements and should be read 
in conjunction with this report and this 
information is, accordingly, incorporated 
into this report by reference.
 
A review of the development and 
performance of the Group during the year, 
its position at the year end, and the 
outlook and its strategy are given in the 
Chairman’s statement on page 3, the  
Chief Executive’s review on pages 9 to 15, 
the Financial review on pages 18 to 20  
and the Operating review on page 17.
Directors
The names and biographical details of  
the Directors holding office at the date  
of this report are shown on pages 28  
and 29. Particulars of Directors’ 
emoluments and their interests in the 
shares of the Group and its subsidiaries 
are shown in the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration and related matters on 
pages 40 to 51. There were no changes  
in the Directors’ interests in shares 
between the end of the financial year  
and 17 June 2015.
At the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting and in accordance with Principle 
B7.1 of the UK Governance Code all of the 
Directors will be retiring and the 
following, being eligible, are offering 
themselves for re-election:
Alan Parker 
Régis Schultz 
Pascal Bazin
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo
Michel Léonard 
Antoine Metzger 
Alison Reed 
Agnès Touraine
Details of the terms of appointment of all 
the Directors can be found in the Report 
on Directors’ remuneration and related 
matters on pages 40 to 51. The Board 
strongly supports their re-election and 
recommends that shareholders vote in 
favour of the resolutions proposing their 
re-election.
Details of all the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts are set out in the 
Report on Directors’ remuneration and 
related matters on pages 40 to 51. None 
of the Non-Executive Directors has a 
service contract.
The Directors present their Annual report together 
with the Group audited financial statements for the  
year ended 30 April 2015. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 31
Throughout the financial year, the Group 
has maintained liability insurance for its 
Directors and Officers against the costs of 
defending themselves in civil proceedings 
taken against them in that capacity and in 
respect of damages resulting from the 
unsuccessful defence of any proceedings. 
To the extent permitted by UK law, the 
Group has also provided an indemnity for 
its Directors and Officers. Neither the 
insurance nor the indemnity provides any 
cover where the Director has acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly.
Share capital and control
At 30 April 2015 there were 529,553,216 
ordinary shares of 30 cents each in issue 
together with rights under the Group’s 
Long Term Incentive Plans for 7,650,326 
ordinary shares of 30 cents. It is intended 
to satisfy these rights through market 
purchase, rather than issuing new shares.
Further details of the share capital are 
given in note 27 to the financial 
statements.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to 
attend and speak at general meetings of 
the Company, to appoint one or more 
proxies and, if they are corporations, 
corporate representatives to attend 
general meetings and to exercise voting 
rights. Holders of ordinary shares may 
receive a dividend and on liquidation may 
share in the assets of the Company. 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to 
receive the Company’s Annual report and 
accounts. Subject to meeting certain 
thresholds, holders of ordinary shares 
may requisition a general meeting of the 
Company or the proposal of resolutions 
at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights
On a show of hands at a general meeting 
of the Company, every holder of ordinary 
shares present in person or by proxy and 
entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll 
every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote has one vote 
for every ordinary share held. None of 
the ordinary shares carries any special 
rights with regard to control of the 
Company. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions 
must be received by the Group’s 
registrars not later than (i) 48 hours 
before a meeting or adjourned meeting, 
or (ii) 24 hours before a poll is taken, if 
the poll is not taken on the same day as 
the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on transfer of shares 
There are some restrictions on the 
transfer of shares in the Company, which 
may from time to time be imposed by 
laws and regulations (for example insider 
trading laws). Pursuant to the Group’s 
Code of Conduct, the Directors and 
senior executives of the Group require 
approval to deal in the Company’s shares. 
Furthermore, where a person with at 
least a 0.25 per cent interest in a class of 
shares has been served with a disclosure 
notice and has failed to provide the 
Company with information concerning 
interests in those shares, the Articles of 
Association (‘the Articles’) provide that 
the Company may refuse to register a 
transfer of those shares.
The Group is not aware of any 
agreements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of shares or on voting rights.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
give the Board the power to appoint 
Directors, but also require Directors to 
retire and submit themselves for election 
at the first Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment. A Director 
who retires in this way is eligible for 
election but is not taken into account 
when deciding how many Directors 
should retire by rotation at the Annual 
General Meeting. The Articles themselves 
may be amended by special resolution of 
the shareholders.
Pursuant to the Articles, at every Annual 
General Meeting any Director who (i) has 
been appointed by the Board since the 
last Annual General Meeting, (ii) who held 
office at the time of the two preceding 
Annual General Meetings and who did not 
retire at either of them, or (iii) who has 
held office with the Company, other than 
employment or executive office, for
a continuous period of nine years or more 
at the date of the Meeting, shall retire 
from office and may offer himself for 
reappointment by the members.
From time to time a Director may retire 
and offer himself for reappointment by 
the shareholders to ensure orderly 
succession.
Notwithstanding the Articles, in 
accordance with Principle B7.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014, all 
Directors offer themselves for re- 
election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board of Directors is responsible for 
the management of the business of the 
Group and may exercise all the powers of 
the Group subject to the provisions of the 
Company’s Memorandum of Association 
and the Articles. The Articles contain 
specific provisions and restrictions 
regarding the Group’s power to borrow 
money. Powers relating to the issuing and 
buying back of shares are also included in 
the Articles and shareholders are asked 
to renew such authorities each year at 
the Annual General Meeting. A copy of 
the Articles is available on request from 
the Company Secretary.
There are a number of agreements 
that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the 
Group following a takeover, such as 
commercial contracts, the Group bank 
agreements, the High Yield Bond 
and employees’ share plans. None of 
these are deemed to be significant in 
terms of their potential impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole. 32 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Directors’ report
Directors’ report
Corporate responsibility and diversity
The Group has an Operating Principles 
handbook which contains a Code of 
Conduct that sets out the standards
of behaviour expected in the Group and 
of all who work for the Group, in their 
relationships with employees, customers, 
suppliers, business partners, the 
community (including the environment), 
government and all other stakeholders in 
the business.
Employment policies
At 30 April 2015, the number of 
employees working for the Group in 
Europe and Asia was 12,618. The Group 
consists of a number of businesses 
operating in different countries. While 
employment practices may vary 
between these businesses, the Group is, 
nevertheless, committed to ensuring that:
• 
all employees receive fair and equal 
treatment irrespective of gender, 
ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital 
status, religion, sexuality or disability;
• 
the working environment is conducive 
to achievement and free from 
harassment and intimidation;
• 
disabled persons, whether registered 
or not, have equal opportunities when 
applying for vacancies, with due 
regard to their aptitudes and abilities. 
In addition to complying with 
legislative requirements, procedures 
ensure that disabled employees are 
fairly treated and that their training 
and career development needs are 
carefully managed; and
• 
the assessment of training needs and 
the provision of appropriate training is 
delivered to its employees.
Significant contracts
There are no parties with whom the 
Group has contractual or other 
arrangements that are essential to  
the business of the Group.
Purchase of own shares
At the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on 11 September 2014, 
authority was given for the Company to 
purchase, in the market, up to 52,955,321 
ordinary shares of 30 cents each. The 
Company did not use this authority to 
make any purchases of its own shares 
during the period. At the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 10 September 2015, 
shareholders will be asked to give a 
similar authority.
Substantial shareholding
As at 17 June 2015, the following 
interests of more than 3 per cent 
in the issued share capital of the 
Company had been notified under Rule 
5 of the Financial Services Authorities’ 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
 
Name
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
Percentage 
of issued 
share 
capital
Knight Vinke 75,97 4,709 14.34%
Schroders plc 75,133,862 14.18%
Teacher 
Retirement 
System of Texas 56,630,915 10.69%
UBS Global 
Asset 
Management 52,038,134 9.83%
Standard Life 
Investments 
Limited 42,366,600 8.00%
Tameside MBC 25,208,851 4.76%
DNCA Finance 16,050,000 3.03%
Annual General Meeting
The 12th Annual General Meeting of  
the Company will be held at 11.00 am  
on Thursday, 10 September 2015 at  
the Crowne Plaza, 19 New Bridge Street, 
London EC4V 6DB.
Health and safety
Group companies have a responsibility  
to ensure that all reasonable precautions 
are taken to provide and maintain 
working conditions, for employees and 
visitors alike, which are safe, healthy  
and in compliance with statutory 
requirements and appropriate codes  
of practice.
The Group’s companies pursue the 
objective of minimising the instances  
of occupational accidents and illnesses. 
Examples of this are to be seen in the 
employment of health and safety 
advisers and in the establishment of 
detailed policies and statements of  
intent and training programmes for 
employees. The Company Secretary  
has the responsibility to ensure that the 
Board is presented with a review detailing 
how the Group overall complies with the 
statutory requirements and appropriate 
codes of practice.
Employee involvement
Group companies actively consult their 
staff on matters of concern to them in 
the context of their employment. In 
Europe, where the largest number of 
employees are, there is a formal 
consultation process through workers’ 
councils. Consultation also takes place 
through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern 
to employees including the 
financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of 
the Group is also disseminated 
through conferences, meetings, 
publications and electronic media.
More information on corporate 
responsibility including greenhouse gas 
emissions is set out on page 25.
Corporate governance
The Group’s statement on corporate 
governance can be found in the 
Corporate governance section on pages 
34 to 39. The Corporate governance 
section forms part of this Directors’  
report and is incorporated into it by  
way of cross reference. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 33
Directors’ disclosure of information 
to auditors
The Directors believe that there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
auditors are unaware and each Director 
has taken all steps that they ought to 
have taken as a Director to make 
themself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the 
auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern
The Directors have performed a review of 
revenue and profit forecasts, expected 
cash flows, available borrowing facilities 
and expected compliance with related 
covenants. This has provided reasonable 
expectation that the Darty Group has 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the next 
financial year and the foreseeable future. 
Following this review and a discussion  
of a number of sensitivities that were 
applied, the Audit Committee confirmed 
it continues to be appropriate to follow  
the Going Concern basis of accounting  
in the financial statements.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Fair, balanced and understandable 
The Board received an early draft of  
the Annual report and accounts as a
whole and discussed the tone, balance 
and language of the document, taking 
into account the recent changes in the  
UK Corporate Governance Code and  
the need for consistency between  
the narrative sections and the financial 
statements. The Board received  
the work undertaken by the Audit  
Committee including the auditors’ review. 
The Board’s statement on the report is 
outlined on page 36.
Auditors
Resolutions concerning the 
reappointment of the auditors and 
authorising the Directors to set their 
remuneration will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been 
the Company’s auditors since it listed on 
the London Stock Exchange in July 2003. 
Following its annual review, the Audit 
Committee considers that the 
relationship with the auditors is working 
well and remains satisfied with their 
effectiveness. Accordingly, it has not 
considered it necessary to date to require 
the firm to tender for the audit work. The 
external auditors are required to rotate 
the audit partners responsible for the 
Group and subsidiary audits every five 
years and the current lead audit partner 
has been in place since September 2012. 
There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Company’s choice of 
external auditors.
By Order of the Board
Simon Enoch
Secretary
17 June 2015
Registered Office:  
22-24 Ely Place  
London EC1N 6TE 34 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
All Directors are subject to re-election by 
shareholders at the first opportunity 
after their appointment and thereafter in 
accordance with Article 82 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association. The 
Directors are following the best practice 
requirements of Principle B7.1 of the Code 
and all will be retiring at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, and are offering 
themselves for re-election.
The Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors meet as a group without the 
Executive Directors present. The 
Non-Executive Directors meet in the 
absence of the Chairman if there are any 
concerns, which the Chairman has failed 
to resolve, or to consider his performance 
or terms of appointment.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that 
the Board has full and timely access to all 
relevant information. The Chairman leads 
the Board and represents the Board to 
the Chief Executive as necessary 
between Board meetings.
The duties of the Board and its 
committees are set out clearly in formal 
terms of reference, copies of which are 
available from www.dartygroup.com. 
These are reviewed regularly, stating the 
items specifically reserved for decisions 
by the Board. The Board establishes 
overall Group strategy, including new 
activities and withdrawal from existing 
activities. It approves the Group’s 
commercial strategy and the operating 
budget and monitors divisional 
performance through the receipt of 
monthly reports and management 
accounts. The process for the approval of 
acquisitions/divestments for the most 
part is a matter reserved for the Board 
save that it delegates to the Chief 
Executive the responsibility for such 
activities up to a specified level of 
authority. Similarly, there are authority 
levels covering capital expenditure, which 
can be exercised by the Chief Executive. 
Beyond these levels of authority, projects 
are referred to the Board for approval.
The Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) 
requires listed companies to disclose, in 
relation to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2014 (‘the Code’), how they have 
applied its principles and whether they 
have complied with its provisions 
throughout the accounting year.
The Board of Darty plc supports the 
principles of corporate governance 
advocated by the Code and the Board 
believes that it complies in full with the 
terms of the Code.
Directors
The Board consists of a Chairman,  
a Chief Executive plus one further 
Executive Director and six Non- Executive 
Directors. There is a clear division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman 
and Chief Executive.
All the Non-Executive Directors are 
independent in character and judgement 
and there are no relationships or 
circumstances which could affect, or 
appear to affect, a Director’s judgement. 
Michel Léonard is the Senior Independent 
Director. Alison Reed, an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee, is a qualified 
accountant. She is considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is aware of the other 
commitments of its Directors and is 
satisfied that these do not conflict with 
their duties as Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company. The Executive Directors do 
not hold any Non-Executive Directorships 
in other companies.
 
The Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for specified terms and the 
details of their respective appointments 
are set out in the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration and related matters on 
page 44. Copies of their respective 
letters of appointment or contracts are 
available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office and will also be available 
for inspection at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
Other matters reserved to the  
Board include:
• 
overview of financial control, audit and 
risk management;
• 
remuneration:
 – the Group’s framework of executive 
remuneration and its cost in the 
light of recommendations made by 
the Remuneration Committee;
 – the remuneration of the  
Non-Executive Directors;
• 
senior management succession plans 
and the overall direction of 
management development;
• 
pension schemes;
• 
corporate responsibility; and
• 
the appointment or removal of the 
Company Secretary.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner 
with information in a form and of a 
quality appropriate to enable it to 
discharge its duties. This includes 
monthly management accounts 
irrespective of whether or not a Board 
meeting is scheduled. There is also a 
procedure under which Directors, in 
furtherance of their duties, are able to 
take independent professional advice,
if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
The Company Secretary is responsible 
for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and all Directors have access to 
his advice and services.
The Directors receive training as part of 
their induction from the Company’s legal 
advisers on the duties and responsibilities 
of being Directors of a publicly limited 
company. The training needs of the 
Directors are periodically discussed at 
Board meetings and briefings are given 
by the Company Secretary on various 
elements of corporate governance, 
regulatory compliance and best practice. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 35
In previous years the Board has 
conducted its own evaluation exercise.  
In September 2013 it engaged an 
independent professional organisation  
to undertake an evaluation process.  
A further exercise was undertaken in 
February 2015 which covered the Board, 
as well as its principal committees and 
the results have been considered by the 
Board and the respective committees.
The Senior Independent Director, Michel 
Léonard also met with the Non- Executive 
Directors in the absence of the Chairman, 
to assess the Chairman’s effectiveness. 
Details of the Chairman’s professional 
commitments are included in his 
biography on page 29.
During the year ended 30 April 2015  
the Board met 8 times. This is felt 
adequate to enable effective running  
of the Company. The attendance record 
of individual Directors at Board and 
Committee meetings is detailed above.
The Board has established a number  
of committees, including Audit, 
Remuneration, Nomination and 
Disclosure Committees:
(a) Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of three 
Non-Executive Directors, considered by 
the Board to be independent. They are 
Alison Reed (Chairman), Antoine Metzger 
and Agnès Touraine. The Committee has 
at least one member, Alison Reed, who 
possesses recent and relevant financial 
experience. It can be seen from the 
Directors’ biographical details, appearing 
on page 29, that the members of the 
Committee bring to it a wide range of 
experience from positions at the highest 
level, both in the UK and France.
The Committee met five times in 2014/15. 
Both the external auditors and the 
Director of Risk Management and Audit 
were present at the meetings and, in 
addition, the Committee met the external 
auditors without management present. 
The external auditors are not present 
when their performance and/or 
remuneration is discussed. The Director 
of Risk Management and Audit has the 
right to request a meeting without other 
management present, and he regularly 
meets the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee without management being 
present. The Chief Executive and the 
Finance Director attend meetings
as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports the outcome of meetings to the 
Board and the Board receives the 
minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
The main role and responsibilities are set 
out in written terms of reference which 
encompass those recommended by the 
Combined Code, i.e.:
• 
to monitor the integrity of the 
financial statements of the Company, 
reviewing significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements 
contained therein;
• 
to review the financial reports for 
publication and to ensure compliance 
with all accounting policies and 
standards;
• 
to review the Company’s compliance 
with legal and regulatory 
requirements;
• 
to review the Company’s internal 
financial control and risk management 
systems and to review risk exposures 
and steps taken to monitor and  
control them;
• 
to monitor and review the 
effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function;
• 
to make recommendations to the  
Board in relation to the appointment of 
the external auditors and to approve 
the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditors;
• 
to monitor and review the external 
auditors’ independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness, taking into account 
UK professional and regulatory 
requirements;
• 
to monitor the operation of formal 
complaints procedures, including 
whistleblowing;
• 
to satisfy itself that the Company’s 
code of conduct is being enforced; and
• 
the removal and appointment of the 
Group Director of Risk Management 
and Internal Audit.
The Committee has an annual work plan. 
This includes standing items that are 
considered regularly, in addition to any 
specific matters that need the 
Committee’s attention and topical items 
on which the Committee chooses to 
focus. This year:
• 
at its meetings in May, June 
September and November the focus 
was the review of the published 
financial results, the Annual report 
and other published financial 
information. The Committee 
considered the appropriateness of  
the Group’s accounting policies, 
critical accounting estimates and  
key judgements;
Board 
meetings 
(8)
Audit 
meetings 
(5)
Remuneration 
meetings
(4)
Nomination 
meetings
 (1)
Disclosure 
Committee 
meetings 
(4)
Alan Parker 8 N/A 4 1 4
Régis Schultz 8 N/A N/A 1 4
Dominic Platt 8 N/A N/A 1 4
Pascal Bazin 8 N/A 4 1 N/A
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo 8 N/A N/A 1 N/A
Michel Léonard 8 N/A 4 1 N/A
Antoine Metzger 8 5 N/A 1 N/A
Alison Reed 8 5 N/A 1 N/A
Agnès Touraine 8 5 N/A 1 N/A 36 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
• 
as a matter of routine, the Committee 
was presented with information  
on material litigation involving  
Group companies;
The significant issues the Committee 
considered in relation to the financial 
statements for the year ended  
30 April 2015 and that were closely 
considered with the external  
auditors were:
Group accounting policies, critical 
accounting estimates and key 
judgements
The Committee reviewed the accounting 
policies and the disclosures in note 1 to 
the consolidated financial statements 
that relate to critical accounting 
estimates and key judgements and 
re-confirmed they remain appropriate.
Carrying value of leasehold  
properties in France
The Audit Committee considered the 
carrying value of leasehold properties in 
France in light of their size and the 
trading performance of the business in 
recent years. The Committee reviewed 
the store by store impairment analysis 
prepared by management and the trading 
forecasts supporting the assessment and 
concluded that these net assets were 
held at an appropriate value.
Revenue and rebate recognition
The Audit Committee is aware of the 
heightened concern regarding revenue 
recognition and rebates. It has reviewed 
the controls over revenue and rebates 
with senior management to ensure the 
appropriateness of the revenue 
recognition and its collectability.
Going concern
The Directors have performed a review of 
revenue and profit forecasts, expected 
cash flows, available borrowing facilities 
and expected compliance with related 
covenants. This has provided reasonable 
expectation that the Darty Group has 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the next 
financial year and the foreseeable future. 
Following this review and a discussion  
of a number of sensitivities that were 
applied, the Committee confirmed it 
continues to be appropriate to follow  
the Going concern basis of accounting  
in the financial statements.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
• 
a report from the Director of Audit 
and Risk Management was presented 
and discussed at each of the five 
meetings, which highlighted any 
significant risk and control issues;
• 
The Committee monitored 
management’s responsiveness to the 
Internal Audit findings and 
recommendations and ensured that 
management took appropriate action 
on the issues arising;
• 
In addition, at the May 2014 meeting, 
the Director of Audit and Risk 
Management submitted the internal 
audit plans for the coming year which 
were discussed and approved. Key 
areas of focus across the Internal 
Audit Plan included privacy and 
protection, including cyber security, 
financial management and controls, 
revenue assurance and the London 
finance team transfer to France;
• 
the external auditors presented  
their Group audit plan, which was 
considered and approved by the 
Committee. The key areas of focus  
set out in the Auditors report on pages 
53 to 57 were discussed. These areas 
of focus were again reviewed with the 
external auditor at the time of their 
review of the half year results and also 
at the time of the consideration of the 
financial statements for the year.  
There was a detailed review of the 
external auditors’ effectiveness at the 
September 2014 meeting, which took 
into account feedback from the 
Committee and various stakeholders 
across the business. The external 
auditors work was rated as meeting or 
exceeding expectations;
• 
presentations were made to the 
Committee on the subject of risk, its 
identification, management and 
control. Darty’s risk management 
processes have been in place 
throughout the period under review. 
The risks that are considered material 
are regularly reviewed by the  
Executive Committee and by the Board. 
These included the risks set out in 
Principal Risks on pages 21 and 22.  
The Committee also received and 
discussed specific risk presentations  
on key business areas. The Committee 
also considers any whistleblowing 
reports regarding accounting,  
internal accounting controls or  
auditing matters;
Retirement benefits
The Committee reviewed the 
assumptions underlying the IAS19 
accounting valuation of the pension 
liabilities in the financial statements and 
considered the financial assumptions 
including the discount rate, price 
inflation and the rate of increase in 
pensions and salaries as disclosed in 
note 32 of the financial statements.
Tax
Following a number of tax audits in 
France, extensive professional advice  
has been taken and reviewed by the 
Committee which concluded that the 
Group has a very strong defence and 
many of the claims are without merit. 
Provisions have been made based on the 
best estimate of the expected outcome.
As noted above, one of the duties of the 
Audit Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment of the external 
auditors. The Committee, in assessing 
whether to recommend the auditors for 
reappointment, takes a number of factors 
into account. These include:
• 
audit scope, planning and the quality 
of reports provided to the Audit 
Committee and the Board and the 
quality of advice given;
• 
the level of understanding 
demonstrated of the Group’s business 
and industry;
• 
the objectivity of the auditors’ views 
on the controls around the Group and 
their ability to coordinate a global 
audit working to tight deadlines; and
• 
monitoring of non-audit services. 
The Committee has put in place 
safeguards to ensure that the 
independence of the audit is not 
compromised and the auditors are 
restricted in their ability to perform any 
non-audit activities. Arrangements are in 
place for the auditors to report to the 
Committee on actions they take
to comply with the professional and 
regulatory requirements and best 
practice designed to ensure their 
independence from the Company.
The Committee reviews its performance 
annually through questionnaires, the 
results of which show the Committee 
continues to work effectively.  Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 37
(b) Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists 
exclusively of Non-Executive Directors 
considered by the Board to be 
independent: Michel Léonard (Chairman) 
Alan Parker and Pascal Bazin. The 
Committee’s responsibilities include 
setting remuneration policy, ensuring 
that the remuneration and terms of 
service of the Executive Directors are 
appropriate and that Directors are fairly 
rewarded for their individual contribution 
to the Company’s overall performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of 
shares under the Group’s share schemes 
are on a fair and equitable basis and in 
accordance with agreed performance 
criteria. The application of corporate 
governance principles in relation to 
Directors’ remuneration is described in 
the Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters on pages 40 to 51.
(c) Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination 
Committee are Alan Parker (Chairman), 
Pascal Bazin, Carlo D’Asaro Biondo, 
Antoine Metzger, Michel Léonard, 
Dominic Platt, Alison Reed, Régis Schultz 
and Agnès Touraine. The Committee is 
chaired by the Senior Independent 
Director on any matter concerning the 
Chairmanship of the Company.
The Nomination Committee has written 
terms of reference covering the authority 
delegated to it by the Board. These 
include the following duties:
• 
to review regularly the Board 
performance, including structure, size, 
composition and diversity and make 
recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any adjustments that are 
deemed necessary;
• 
Board appointments and removals are 
matters reserved for the Board. It is 
the responsibility of the Nomination 
Committee to identify and nominate 
candidates for the approval of the 
Board, to fill Board vacancies as and 
when they arise and to review 
succession plans for both Board and 
senior executive positions; and
• 
setting policy for granting of  
service agreements (including 
mitigation policy).
(d) Disclosure Committee
The members of the Disclosure 
Committee are Dominic Platt (Chairman), 
Régis Schultz and Alan Parker. The 
Committee’s responsibilities include the 
establishment and maintenance
of disclosures controls and processes for 
the appropriateness of disclosures made 
by the Group and for compliance with the 
Group’s share trading rules.
Share capital and control
The disclosures required under DTR
7.2.6 are to be found on page 32 of the 
Directors’ report.
Relations with shareholders
The Company recognises the importance 
of communicating with its shareholders 
and does this through its Annual and 
Interim reports and at the Annual 
General Meeting. Although it does not 
have precise rules covering meetings with 
institutional shareholders, it is always 
ready to enter into a dialogue with 
investors, and meetings take place 
frequently.
The Board believes that good 
communication with shareholders is 
important. The Chairman has had a 
number of meetings with the Company’s 
institutional Investors, and there are 
programmes for the Chief Executive and 
Finance Director to meet the Company’s 
institutional investors in the UK and 
Europe and presentations are made on 
the operating and financial performance 
of the Group and its longer-term strategy. 
Roadshows are held in the UK and Europe 
immediately after the presentation of the 
full-year and interim results. If it is not 
possible to arrange face-to-face 
meetings, meetings are held by telephone 
conference. The presentations made to 
representatives of the investment 
community following the announcement 
of the full-year and interim results are 
available online at www.dartygroup.com 
as is a web cast of the result’s 
presentations.
The Non-Executive Directors are given 
regular updates as to the views of 
institutional shareholders and the Senior 
Independent Director, Michel Léonard,  
is available to meet institutional 
shareholders should there be unresolved 
matters that shareholders believe should 
be brought to his attention.
The principal communication with  
private investors is through the Annual 
report, the half-year management 
statements and the Annual General 
Meeting. A presentation is made at the 
Annual General Meeting to facilitate 
greater awareness of the Group’s 
activities. Shareholders are given the 
opportunity to ask questions of the  
Board and the Chairman of each Board 
committee at the meeting and meet the 
Directors informally after the meeting. 
Separate resolutions are proposed for 
each item of business and the ‘for’, 
‘against’ and ‘abstention’ proxy votes 
cast in respect of each resolution 
proposed at the meeting are counted  
and announced after the shareholders 
present have voted on each resolution. 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is 
posted to shareholders with the Annual 
report at least 20 working days before 
the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information including 
the terms of reference for the Board and 
Board committees are available from  
the Company’s registered office and are 
also available on the Company’s website 
www.dartygroup.com.
Accountability, risk management  
and internal control
It is a requirement of the Code that 
the Board should present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of 
the Company’s position and prospects. 
In this context, reference should be 
made to the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities on page 52, which 
includes a statement of compliance 
with the Code regarding the Group’s 
status as a going concern, and to the 
Auditors’ report on page 53, which 
includes a statement by the auditors 
about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its 
responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment 
extends to interim and other price-
sensitive public reports and reports 
to regulators as well as information 
required to be presented by law. 38 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
In addition to the above process, and  
the review by the Audit Committee as to 
the preparation, internal verification and 
approval process for the Annual report 
and accounts, the Committee has the 
opportunity to direct questions to the 
Chief Executive on the overall messages 
and tone of his review and the Annual 
report. The Committee has also 
considered other information regarding 
the Group’s performance presented  
to the Board during the period. After 
debate and consideration of all the 
relevant information the Committee  
felt able to provide comfort to the Board 
that the Annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
 
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness 
and confirms that such reviews have 
taken place regularly throughout the 
year ended 30 April 2015 and up to the 
date of this report, as set out on pages 
38 and 39. Such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The 
Board has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the key procedures that have been 
established to provide internal control.
In line with publication of guidance for 
Directors on internal control in the 
Combined Code, the Board confirms that 
there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing
the significant risks faced by the Group. 
These include those relating to social, 
environmental and ethical matters.
The process is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee, which reports its findings for 
consideration by the Board, and is in 
accordance with the Code and the 
Turnbull Committee guidance.
The Group has a thorough assurance 
process in place in respect of the 
preparation, verification and approval of 
periodic financial reports. This process 
includes:
Qualified, professional employees 
The involvement of qualified, professional 
employees with an appropriate level of 
experience (both in Group finance and 
throughout the business).
Comprehensive review 
Comprehensive review and, where 
appropriate, challenge by key internal 
Group functions.
Transparent process
A transparent process to ensure full 
disclosure of information to the external 
auditors. Engagement of a professional 
and experienced firm of external 
auditors.
Oversight
Oversight by the Group’s Audit 
Committee, involving (among other 
duties):
• 
a detailed review of key financial 
reporting judgements which have 
been discussed by management;
• 
review and, where appropriate, 
challenge on matters including:
 – the consistency of, and any changes 
to, significant accounting policies 
and practices during the year;
 – significant adjustments resulting 
from an external audit;
 – the going concern assumption; and
 – the Company’s statement on 
internal control systems, prior to 
endorsement by the Board.
The four key procedures operated 
throughout the year:
1 Risk assessment:
• 
the Group sets out its objectives 
clearly as part of its medium-term 
planning process. These objectives are 
then incorporated as part of the 
budgeting and planning cycle and are 
supported by the use of both financial 
and non-financial key performance 
indicators;
• 
the operating companies make 
presentations on risk whose reports 
are incorporated in the Risk 
assessment reviewed by the Group 
Audit Committee, which reports to the 
Group Board on the risks and any 
weaknesses facing the businesses;
• 
the detailed assessment of strategic 
risks is delegated to the Chief 
Executive. This review is carried out as 
part of the annual budgeting and the 
monthly reporting and reforecasting 
cycles; and
• 
the Audit Committee has delegated 
responsibility for considering 
operational, financial and compliance 
risks on a regular basis and receives 
reports on the controls over these 
risks. This includes risks arising from 
social, environmental and ethical 
matters.
2 Control environment  
and control activities:
• 
the Group consists of a number of 
operating companies, each with its 
own management and control 
structures;
• 
the Group has established procedures 
for delegated authority, which ensure 
that decisions that are significant, 
either because of the value or the 
impact on other parts of the Group, 
are taken at an appropriate level; Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 39
• 
the Group has implemented 
appropriate strategies to deal with 
each significant risk that has been 
identified. These strategies include not 
only internal controls but also other 
approaches such as insurance, joint 
ventures and treasury activities; and
• 
the operating companies work within  
a framework of policies and procedures 
laid down in organisation and authority 
manuals, and personnel are required  
to comply with these procedures. 
Policies and procedures cover key 
issues such as authorisation levels, 
segregation of duties, compliance  
with legislation and physical and  
data security. The Group has also 
established a whistleblowing policy.
3 Information and communication:
• 
the Group has a comprehensive 
system of budgetary control including 
monthly performance reviews for each 
major business and division. These 
reviews are at a detailed level within 
the operating companies and at a 
higher level for the Group Board;
• 
on a monthly basis, the achievement 
of business objectives, both financial 
and non-financial, is assessed using  
a range of key performance indicators. 
These indicators are reviewed to 
ensure that they remain relevant  
and reliable; and
• 
there are clear procedures in the 
major operating companies for 
employees to report suspected 
improprieties.
4 Monitoring:
The effective application of internal 
control within the Group is monitored  
by the Audit Committee, Chief Executive 
(and business heads of the other 
operating companies as appropriate),  
and internal audit and risk management.
The Audit Committee, which in respect  
of the Group:
• 
monitors the integrity of the  
financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the 
financial performance;
• 
reviews internal financial controls and 
systems, and other internal control 
and risk management systems through 
reports from the internal and external 
auditors on any material control 
weaknesses;
• 
reviews risk management  
processes; and
• 
monitors and reviews the 
effectiveness of the internal audit 
function and the function’s work plans.
The Chief Executive and, where 
appropriate, the business heads of the 
other operating companies, who:
• 
maintain systems that continually 
identify and evaluate significant risks 
resulting from their strategies and 
that apply to their areas of the 
business;
• 
review and monitor the effectiveness 
of internal control systems through an 
operating Company Audit Committee 
and reports from internal and external 
audit functions;
• 
have responsibility for identification 
and evaluation of significant risks to 
their business area, together with the 
design of mitigating controls;
• 
report on any control weaknesses or 
breakdowns that could be material to 
the Group; and
• 
certify with the Finance Director for 
the operating company that all 
necessary information has been 
provided to the auditors.
The internal audit and risk management 
function, which:
• 
works with the operating companies  
to develop, improve and embed risk 
management tools and processes into 
their business operations;
• 
oversees the operation of the 
individual operating business’  
Audit Committee;
• 
ensures that business risks  
are identified, managed and  
regularly reviewed at all levels of  
the Group and that Directors are 
periodically appraised of the key  
risks in accordance with the  
Turnbull guidance;
• 
provides the Board and the Group 
Audit Committee with assurance  
on the control environment across  
the Group;
• 
ensures that the operating companies 
have appropriate organisation and 
processes to carry out regular reviews 
of their internal controls; and
• 
monitors adherence to the Group’s  
key policies and principles.
While management at each operating 
business has responsibility for the 
identification and evaluation of 
significant risks applicable to their 
business and any mitigating actions to  
be taken, Group executive management 
reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks 
that are significant at Group level as well 
as the mitigating actions against those 
risks. These are then considered by the 
Board. The type of risks identified include 
strategic risk, external factors (such as 
the competitive environment and 
regulations) change management 
programmes, health and safety, retention 
of key management and macro market 
risks. The internal audit plans are 
designed to address the controls and 
actions in relation to each business’s 
significant identified risks. Where 
appropriate the risk management process 
will include the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they 
review the effectiveness of this system of 
internal control, and that it accords with 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee 
on internal control.
The Board’s review of the system of 
internal controls has not identified any 
significant failings or weaknesses,  
and therefore no remedial actions  
are required. 40 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
Major decisions on and changes to 
Directors’ remuneration during the year
As stated above, this year has primarily 
been a year of implementing the changes 
agreed last year.
The CEO’s salary was not increased for 
the coming year. 
The operation of the bonus remains 
unchanged, with 50 per cent of any 
bonus earned now being deferred for  
a period of three years.
The changes we made last year to 
simplify the performance period and 
introduce an additional holding period  
for the LTIP were implemented during  
the year.
Awards were made subject to EPS  
and free cash flow targets as these  
are considered to remain the most 
appropriate measures of long-term 
performance aligned to shareholder 
value creation. 
Performance is measured over a three-
year period, and awards are subject to an 
additional two-year holding period and 
will vest five years after the initial award 
is made as opposed to vesting 50 per 
cent after three years and 50 per cent 
after four years. This change was phased 
in with half of the awards made in 2014 
being subject to a one-year additional 
holding period and the other half the full 
two-year holding period. The awards 
made in the coming financial year will 
have the full two-year holding period.
Dear shareholder
Introduction
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 30 April 2015.
You will see that, following this 
introductory statement, we have set 
out in full the policy report which was 
approved by a binding shareholder 
vote at the 2014 AGM and to which no 
changes have been made, followed by 
our annual report on remuneration 
which is subject to an advisory vote 
at our 2015 AGM. I hope that you find 
the layout of the remuneration report 
clear and transparent and that we 
can rely on your continued support 
for our remuneration policy and its 
implementation during the year.
Context for executive remuneration
This year has primarily been focused  
on implementing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of the changes made last 
year and our remuneration principles 
remain unchanged. The intention of the 
principles, which were used to guide the 
content of the policy report, is to ensure 
that remuneration arrangements are 
aligned to and support the delivery of  
the Group’s business strategy to turn the 
business around and return to growth in 
order to create value for shareholders.
 
Darty’s aim is to attract and retain a  
high calibre of person as appropriate to 
the specific role. This central aim remains 
the same whether we are talking about 
senior executives or colleagues wherever 
they work in our business.
2014/15 Remuneration outcomes
2014/15 was a challenging year for the 
business and this has been reflected 
through the remuneration received by 
the Executive Directors.
Under the annual bonus scheme the 
profit targets were not met but strong 
performance in respect of some of  
our strategic objectives led to a small 
proportion of the bonus being paid.  
The CEO received a bonus of 35 per cent 
of salary and the CFO a bonus of  
33.16 per cent of salary. Half of which  
will be deferred into Darty shares for a 
period of three years.
The LTIP awards made in June 2012 did 
not meet the performance targets set 
and so awards lapsed in full.
Director departures
Dominic Platt will leave the Board on 
18 June 2015 and Albin Jacquemont will 
replace him as Group Finance Director 
from this date. The termination 
arrangements for Dominic Platt are in 
line with the terms of his contract, our 
Remuneration Policy and mitigation 
principles have been applied. 
Further details of all Directors’ 
departures are provided in the annual 
report on remuneration. We look forward 
to receiving your support at our 
forthcoming AGM.
Michel Léonard
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
17 June 2015
The report complies with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 
8 of the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
The report has been prepared in line  
with the recommendations of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and the 
requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 41
Remuneration policy report 
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which 
shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM on 11 September 2014, and is effective for three years from then.
The table below summarises the main components of the remuneration policy.
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy
Operation  
(including maximum levels)
Framework used to assess performance  
and provision for the recovery of sums paid
Base salary 
and fees
To provide an appropriate 
level of fixed cash income to 
attract and retain executives 
who can deliver the 
Company’s strategy
Salaries and fees are normally reviewed annually, with 
changes effective from 1 May
Salary and fee levels are set taking into account a 
number of relevant factors which include:
• 
the scale and responsibility of the role
• 
the skills and experience of the individual
• 
salary increases awarded across the Group  
as a whole
• 
competitive practice in companies of a similar 
size and complexity
To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors 
and other employees, no maximum salary or fee is set 
under the remuneration policy. However, any increase 
will normally be broadly in line with increases 
awarded across the Group as a whole
Higher increases may be made in certain 
circumstances, which may include:
• 
an increase in the size or scope of the role 
or responsibilities
• 
an increase in the size or complexity of the Group
• 
an increase to reflect the individual’s development 
and performance in role
Not applicable, although performance in role will 
be taken into account in determining any salary 
increases
Benefits To provide a competitive 
fixed remuneration package 
to attract and retain 
executives who can deliver 
the Company’s strategy
Executive Directors may receive benefits including 
but not limited to: a company car (or cash equivalent), 
travel allowance, private medical and dental 
insurance, travel accident policy, life assurance and 
long-term disability benefit dependent upon the 
locations in which the executives are employed and 
provide services
No other benefits are currently provided. However, 
where appropriate other benefits may be provided to 
take account of individual circumstances, such as but 
not limited to: international allowances, relocation 
expense, housing allowance and education support
Not applicable
Provision for 
retirement
To provide executives 
with a competitive fixed 
remuneration package to 
attract and retain executives 
who can deliver the 
Company’s strategy
The Company may make a payment into a defined 
contribution pension plan and/or make a cash 
allowance payment set as a percentage of salary 
which will not exceed 20 per cent of salary
Not applicable
Annual  
Bonus Plan
To reward the delivery of 
the business strategy on an 
annual basis
Rewards annual performance 
against key financial and 
individual objectives which 
are directly linked to the 
Group’s strategic plan
Maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent of annual 
salary plus fee. Current opportunities are 125 per cent 
of salary and fees for the Chief Executive and 100 per 
cent of salary for the Finance Director
Performance is measured over a single financial year 
with payout levels determined by the Committee 
following the year end
Half of any bonus earned will be paid in cash
The remaining half will be compulsorily deferred for 
three years and the value received after three years 
will reflect the change in the value of Darty plc shares 
over that period
The Committee may adjust the bonus payout, either up 
or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered 
not to reflect underlying business performance
Bonuses are based on a combination of stretching 
annual financial performance measures and role 
specific strategic objectives, with the majority of the 
bonus assessed against the financial performance 
metrics
For target performance up to 65 per cent of the 
maximum bonus may be paid
Deferred bonuses are subject to malus and may 
be reduced at the discretion of the Committee in 
the event of material misstatement of financial 
results, reputational damage to the Group, or gross 
misconduct of the individual 42 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy
Operation  
(including maximum levels)
Framework used to assess performance  
and provision for the recovery of sums paid
LTIP To reward the delivery of the 
Company’s strategy over the 
longer term
Rewards strong business 
performance and sustained 
increase in shareholder value
Supports retention and 
promotes share ownership
The current maximum face value of annual awards 
is 100 per cent of annual salary plus fee. The plan 
rules provide for awards of up to 150 per cent of 
annual salary plus fee to be made in exceptional 
circumstances
Awards are made on an annual basis either in the 
form of nil-cost options or conditional shares with 
performance assessed over a period of at least 
three years. Following the end of the performance 
period awards will be required to be held for up to an 
additional two-year period before they are released 
to executives
For awards made in 2014 and onwards, 50 per cent 
of the award will be released one year after the end 
of the performance period and 50 per cent two years 
after the end of the performance period
For awards made in 2013 and prior years before the 
adoption of this policy, awards will vest 50 per cent 
after three years and 50 per cent after four years
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic 
LTIP outcomes to improve the alignment of pay with 
value creation for shareholders to ensure the outcome 
is a fair reflection of the performance of the Company
Vesting of the LTIP is subject to continued 
employment and the achievement of stretching 
earnings per share (EPS) and free cash flow growth 
targets at the end of a three-year performance 
period
None of the award will vest if the minimum 
performance threshold is not reached
For threshold performance up to 25 per cent of the 
award will vest. The vesting level will increase on 
a sliding scale from this threshold to 100 per cent 
vesting for stretch levels of performance
Further details, including the performance targets 
attached to the LTIP award made each year, will be 
disclosed in the annual report on remuneration
LTIP awards are subject to malus and may be 
reduced at the discretion of the Committee in 
the event of material misstatement of financial 
results, reputational damage to the Group, or gross 
misconduct of the individual
Shareholding 
requirement
To provide alignment 
between Executive Directors 
and shareholders
The Chief Executive must build up and hold a 
minimum shareholding of 150 per cent of salary and 
the Finance Director 100 per cent of base salary. 
Executives have up to five years from the date of 
their appointment to the Board to build up their 
shareholding
Not applicable
Legacy plans
Upon his appointment, the CEO was granted a one-off share award to compensate him for remuneration foregone at his previous 
employer. Details of this award are provided below:
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy
Operation  
(including maximum levels)
Framework used to assess performance  
and provision for the recovery of sums paid
One-off 
share award
To compensate for 
remuneration foregone at 
previous employer
One-off award of shares with a face value of 100 per 
cent of salary which will vest on 19 June 2016 subject 
to the achievement of performance conditions
The award is subject to the following absolute share 
price performance targets to be achieved based on 
the average of the 28 day trading price immediate 
prior to 19 June 2016:
• 
70p = 30 per cent of award vesting
• 
150p = 100 per cent of award vesting
Notes to the policy table
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting
The performance metrics that are used to assess performance under the annual bonus are selected by the Remuneration 
Committee each year to incentivise the delivery of financial performance and key role specific strategic objectives. Profit is 
typically used as the measure of financial performance as this key underlying measure of financial success for the business on an 
annual basis.
The Committee regularly reviews the LTIP performance measures to ensure they are aligned with the Company’s long-term 
strategy and shareholders’ interests. The current measures of EPS growth and FCF have been selected as EPS growth focuses 
executives on real profit growth, which is strongly aligned with value creation and FCF focuses on ensuring the Company has the 
cash available to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value.
Targets for both the annual bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually against a number of internal and external reference points. They 
are set on a sliding scale at levels the Committee considers to be appropriately stretching for the level of award delivered. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 43
Remuneration policy for employees
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors in general is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees 
as not all employees participate in an annual bonus plan and LTIP awards are only made to the most senior individuals in the Group.
However, the process or reviewing salaries and Directors’ fees is applied on a consistent basis across the Group and the key 
principles of providing remuneration that is appropriate to attract, retain, motivate and reward employees to deliver the Group’s 
strategic plan without paying more than is necessary applies to all employees as well as Executive Directors.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show how the composition of Executive Directors’ remuneration packages as set out in the policy table may vary 
based on the following three performance scenarios:
Performance scenario Basis of valuation
Minimum performance (below threshold) Fixed pay only – base salary, Directors’ fee, benefits and pension
Target performance Fixed pay, plus bonus at target performance and 25 per cent vesting under the LTIP
Maximum performance (all performance conditions met) Fixed pay, plus maximum bonus and full vesting under the LTIP
0
€1,000,000
€1,500,000
€2,000,000
€2,500,000
Maximum Target
Chief Finance Ofﬁcer
Minimum Maximum Target
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Minimum
LTIs
Annual bonus
Fixed
100% 52% 34% 100% 60% 39%
37%
37%
28%
30%
11%
29%
12%
31%
Notes:
1 Fixed remuneration comprises 
 of base salary, beneﬁts and 
 pension contributions.
2 At target performance it is 
 assumed that 80 per cent of 
 salary is earned for the Chief 
 Executive and 60 per cent 
 of salary for the Finance Director.
3 At target performance it is 
 assumed that 25 per cent 
 of the maximum LTIP award vests.
4 Excludes the beneﬁt of the 
 one-off phantom share award
 with a face value of £500,000.
€500,000
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated at any time 
without compensation. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years and their appointments are 
reviewed at the end of each three-year term. 44 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
Committee will take into account all 
relevant factors, which may include: the 
form and time horizon of awards, any 
performance conditions attaching to the 
awards and the likelihood of awards 
vesting. The Committee will typically seek 
to ‘buyout’ awards on a comparable basis 
to those which have been forfeited with 
the intention that the value awarded 
would be no higher than the expected 
value of the forfeited arrangements.
The maximum level of variable 
remuneration that may be granted to a 
new Executive Director on appointment 
(excluding any ‘buyout’ of forfeited 
awards discussed above) will be 300 per 
cent of salary as set out in the policy 
table for current Executive Directors.
Where an individual is promoted to an 
Executive Director position from within 
the Company, remuneration 
commitments made prior to the 
appointment as Director will continue on 
their original terms, provided such 
commitment was not made in 
contemplation of such individual being 
appointed as an Executive Director.
The remuneration package for a newly 
appointed Non-Executive Director would 
be in line with the structure set out in the 
policy table for Non-Executive Directors.
Recruitment policy
When determining the remuneration 
package for a new Executive Director, the 
Committee will take into account all 
relevant factors based on the 
circumstances at that time. This may 
include factors such as the calibre of the 
individual, market practice in the 
candidate’s current location or locations 
and scope of the role to which they are 
being appointed.
Typically, the package will be aligned with 
the Company’s remuneration policy set 
out above. However, should there be a 
commercial rationale for doing so the 
Remuneration Committee has the 
discretion to include any other 
remuneration elements that are not 
included in the ongoing remuneration 
policy, subject to the overall limit on 
variable remuneration set out below. The 
Committee does not intend to use this 
discretion to make non-performance-
related incentive payments and is always 
mindful of the need to pay no more than 
is necessary.
To help facilitate the appointment of an 
individual the Remuneration Committee 
may need to make awards to ‘buyout’ an 
external candidate’s remuneration 
arrangements, which are forfeited as a 
result of leaving their previous employer 
or appointment. In doing so, the 
Service contracts and exit 
payment policy
The current CEO has a service contract 
and a letter of appointment under which 
employment can be terminated either by 
the CEO or the Company giving 12 months’ 
notice. The current CFO has a service 
contract under which employment can be 
terminated by the Company giving 12 
months’ notice or the CFO six months’ 
notice. For any new Executive Directors 
the Board’s policy is for service contracts 
to have a 12-month notice period for both 
the Company and the executive.
The Company may elect to terminate 
Executive Directors’ service contracts by 
making payments in lieu of notice that 
will not exceed 12 months’ salary and 
benefits, which can also include, but not 
limited to, pension, outplacement, 
settlement agreement, non-complete 
agreements and legal fees. The Company 
may at its discretion reduce the payment 
to take into account the receipt of a lump 
sum and mitigation.
Unless an executive is terminated for 
cause, a payment may be made in respect 
of their bonus opportunity on a pro-rated 
basis, taking into account employment law 
in non-UK jurisdictions where relevant to 
the individual, the proportion of the 
financial year for which they were employed 
and subject to the performance achieved.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Component and objective Approach
Fees
To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre with 
broad commercial experience relevant to the Company
The Board determines the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors under 
a policy that seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility 
and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an 
effective Board
The fees paid are reviewed on an annual basis and set at a level to attract 
individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant 
contribution to the Group’s activities, while also reflecting the time 
commitment and responsibility of the role. Each Non-Executive Director 
is also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel and other expenses
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any share scheme or annual 
bonus scheme and are not eligible to join the Group’s pension schemes
The current fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors is as follows:
• 
Chairman = £200,000 per annum
• 
Non-Executive Director base fee = £40,500 per annum
• 
Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman = £6,250 per annum
• 
Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman = £6,250 
per annum
In exceptional circumstances where Non-Executive Directors are required 
to commit a significant amount of time above their normal duties additional 
fees may be paid Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 45
The table below provides a summary of how awards under the LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final 
treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion as provided under the rules of the plan:
 
Reason for cessation of employment Default treatment 
Termination for cause Awards lapse upon cessation of employment
‘Good leaver’ which includes: death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other 
reason as determined by the Committee
If an individual leaves during the performance period awards the level of 
award to be received will be determined at the end of the performance 
period subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and  
pro-rated for time served. Awards will then be released at the normal  
release date
If an individual leaves after the end of the performance period but before  
the release date the level of award determined at the end of the performance 
period will be released at the normal release date
In the case of death, the Committee may deem the performance period to 
end at an earlier date and awards released immediately
Change of control Awards will vest upon the change of control subject to performance  
at that time and pro-rated for time served unless the Committee  
determines otherwise
Payments in relation to existing 
remuneration arrangements
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office 
(including exercising any discretions 
available to it in connection with such 
payments) notwithstanding that they are 
not in line with the policy set out above 
where the terms of the payment were 
agreed:
• 
before the policy came into effect or 
• 
at a time when the relevant individual 
was not a Director of the Company 
and, in the opinion of the Committee, 
the payment was not in consideration 
for the individual becoming a Director 
of the Company.
For these purposes ‘payments’ includes 
the Committee satisfying awards of 
variable remuneration and, in relation to 
an award over shares, the terms of the 
payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the 
award is granted.
Statement of consideration of 
shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation 
to the Annual General Meeting each year 
and guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies more generally. 
This feedback, plus any additional 
feedback received from time to time, is 
then considered as part of the Company’s 
annual review of remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in 
the Company
The Committee does not consult with 
employees specifically on executive 
remuneration policy. However, when 
reviewing or amending remuneration 
arrangements the Committee considers 
pay practices across the Company, 
including the salary increases applying 
across the rest of the business in the 
relevant market. The Committee also 
takes into account the impact on the 
behaviour of employees more widely and 
the views of all relevant stakeholders.
 
Annual report on remuneration Role and 
operation of the Remuneration 
Committee
The Remuneration Committee decides 
both the structure and level of Executive 
Directors’ pay and the remuneration of 
the Chairman. The remuneration of 
Non-Executive Directors is a matter 
reserved for the Chairman and the 
Executive Directors and no Director is 
involved in setting their own 
remuneration. The full terms of reference 
can be found on the Company’s website 
www.dartygroup.com.
The following Directors were members of 
the Committee during the year:
• 
Alan Parker
• 
Michel Léonard (Chairman)
• 
Pascal Bazin
Remuneration decisions are made on the 
advice of or proposals prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee and the 
Company. The Chief Executive is invited 
to attend meetings of the Committee 
when appropriate. 46 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. In addition, in making its decisions, the Committee has had access to 
the relevant external advisers appointed by the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
Deloitte LLP was formally appointed by the Remuneration Committee as its independent external adviser in September 2012. The 
total fees paid to Deloitte in respect of services to the Committee were ¤44,500. Deloitte LLP has not provided any other services 
to the Company in financial year 2015. Deloitte are a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and are signatories 
to the Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK. The Remuneration Committee, following its 
annual review, is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has been independent and objective when providing their advice during the year.
Total remuneration (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration earned by each Executive Director during the year to 30 April 
2014 and for the prior year:
Executive
Salary and fees  
(¤)
Taxable benefis  
(¤)
Bonus  
(¤)**
LTIP  
(¤)
Pension 
contributions (¤)
Total  
(¤)
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Régis 
Schultz 653,069 594,248 26,187 29,344 242,923 694,732 0 0 82,057 59,425 1,004,236 1,377 ,7 49
Dominic 
Platt 556,685* 519,095* 29,847 27,417 163,486 285,102 0 0 0 0 750,018 831,614
* These amounts includes a salary supplement in 2015 of ¤92,781 (2014: €90,643) in lieu of a pension contribution.
** 50 per cent of this amount was deferred in shares for a three year period.
Base salary and Directors’ fee
As Chief Executive Régis Schultz received a base salary and fees totalling £507,500 (€653,069), for the year. Dominic Platt  
received a base salary of £360,500 and had no increase from last year. The euro increase reflects the change in £/€ exchange 
rate. Régis Schultz did not receive an increase in salary from 1 May 2015.
Taxable benefits
The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, including a car allowance, private medical insurance and  
life insurance.
Provision for retirement
The Company made payments of 20 per cent of salary (capped at £60,000 for the CEO) to the executives during the year. 
Payments are made into a defined contribution plan up to £50,000 with any additional amount paid as a cash supplement.  
As Dominic Platt has reached his lifetime allowance, he received a cash supplement of 20 per cent of salary.
Annual bonus in respect of 2014/2015 performance
The bonus for financial year 2015 was based on profit before tax, and role-specific strategic objectives that are closely aligned to 
the achievement of the corporate plan as set out in the table below. Bonuses are also subject to an underpin related to return on 
capital employed and free cash flow which were met.
Summary of bonus earned
Régis Schultz
Performance measure
% base 
salary
Min 
performance
Target 
performance
Max 
performance
Payout 
(% salary)
Adjusted PBT 85% 0%
Mistergooddeal.com integration 5% 0%
Franchise/Kitchen Corner rollout 5% 5%
Improve BCC profitability 5% 5%
Improve Customer satisfaction score 12.5% 12.5%
Improve Employee satisfaction score 12.5% 12.5%
Total 125.0% 35.0%
  Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 47
Dominic Platt
Performance measure
% base 
salary
Min 
performance
Target 
performance
Max 
performance
Payout 
(% salary)
Adjusted PBT 40% 0%
BCC profitability 10% 10%
Vanden Borre profitability 10% 6.5%
Improve average DSO/DPO 20% 10%
London transition 10% 0%
Improve Employee satisfaction score 10% 6.66%
Total 100% 33.16%
Deferral of bonus
50 per cent of bonuses from 2014 and 2015 are deferred into shares.
Executive 2015 2014
Régis Schultz 123,350 370,010
Dominic Platt 85,013 175,203
LTIP
The LTIP awards made in June 2012 did not vest as the performance targets were not met.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out in a single figure the total remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the financial year:
Director
12 months 
to 30 April 
2015
12 months 
to 30 April 
2014
Alan Parker €257,367 ¤237 ,699
Pascal Bazin €52,117 ¤48,134
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo €52,117 ¤48,134
Eric Knight* €20,133 ¤48,134
Michel Léonard €60,160 ¤55,562
Antoine Metzger €52,117 ¤48,134
Alison Reed €60,160 ¤55,562
Agnès Touraine €52,117 ¤48,134
* Mr Knight resigned as a Director on 18 September 2014
The Directors received no increase in their fees. The change reflects the movement in the £/€ exchange rate.
LTIP awards made in financial year 2015 (audited)
LTIP awards were made in September 2014 to both Executive Directors. Awards were made in the form of conditional shares, 
subject to performance over three consecutive financial years. Awards will vest 50 per cent three years following the date of grant 
and 50 per cent four years following the date of grant.
Director
Award 
date
Face value
 (% salary)
Number 
of shares
Performance 
period ends Vesting date
Régis Schultz 15.09.2014 100% 648,004 30.04.17
50% on 15.09.2017
50% on 15.09.2018
Dominic Platt 15.09.2014 80% 373,769 30.04.17
50% on 15.09.2017
50% on 15.09.2018
The awards are subject to the following performance measures and targets: 
Measure Weighting Year 3 targets
EPS 70%
Min = 8.52 cents
Max = 14.06 cents
Free cash flow 30%
Min = ¤84.6m
Max = ¤139.7m 48 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
For achieving the minimum target 0 per cent of the awards will vest, with straight-line vesting between the minimum and maximum 
performance targets.
Payments to past Directors (audited)
There were no payments made to past Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
On his departure from the Group on 30 June 2015 and in line with his contract of employment it has been agreed that Dominic 
Platt will receive a lump sum, including Statutory Redundancy Pay of £113,237.50. Between the date of his departure and his 
commencing full time employment, until April 2016 he will receive a monthly gross sum of £37,745.83. He will be considered as a 
good leaver under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Group Bonus arrangements. 
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
Outstanding interests under share schemes
The table below provides details of Directors’ interests in outstanding share awards:
Name Date of grant
At start 
of year
Granted 
during 
the year
Vested 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At end of 
the year Vesting date Lapse date
Dominic Platt 24/06/2012 161,034 0 0 0 161,034 24/06/2015 21/12/2015
17 /09/2013 316,333 0 0 0 316,333 50% – 16/09/2016
50% – 16/09/2017
50% – 16/03/2017
50% – 16/03/2018
15/09/14 0 373,769 0 0 373,769 50% – 15/09/2017 
50% – 15/09/2018
50% – 16/03/2018
50% – 16/03/2019
Régis Schultz 19/06/2013 775,193* 0 0 0 775,193 19/06/2016 19/12/2016
17 /09/2013 666,666 0 0 0 666,666 50% – 16/09/2016
50% – 16/09/2017
50% – 16/03/2017
50% – 16/03/2018
15/09/14 0 648,004 0 0 648,004 50% – 15/09/2017 
50% – 15/09/2018
 50% – 16/03/2018
 50% – 16/03/2019
* One-off share award.
As part of the terms of his appointment, the Chief Executive received a one-off phantom share award equivalent to 100 per cent 
of his total salary and fees (i.e. a face value of £500,000) in recognition of remuneration foregone as a result of leaving his 
previous employer.
This award vests after a period of three years, subject to the achievement of the following share price targets and continued 
employment:
Share price target
% 
of award vesting
70p 30%
150p 100%
The award will vest on a straight-line basis between 70p and 150p.
Notes
Awards made in June 2012
First year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS 7 .4 cents per share 2.5 cents per share 0%
FCF ¤85.9m ¤39.4m 0%
Second year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS 12.2 cents per share 6.4 cents per share 0%
FCF ¤114.0m ¤85.4m 0%
Third year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS 15.8 cents per share 5.8 cents per share 0%
FCF ¤120.0m ¤70.0m 0% Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 49
Awards made in September 2013
First year award Minimum Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS 4.8 cents per share 6.4 cents per share Yes
FCF ¤69.3m ¤85.4m Yes
Second year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS 5.3 cents per share 5.8 cents per share 38.85%
FCF ¤77 .25m ¤70.0m 0%
Award made in September 2014
Measure Weighting Year 3 targets
EPS 70%
Min = 8.52cents 
Max = 14.06 cents
T o be measured on the 
2016/17 results
Free cash flow 30%
Min = ¤84.6m 
Max = ¤139.7m
T o be measured on the 
2016/17 results
Shareholding guidelines
Shareholding guidelines are in place that encourage Executive Directors to build up a holding in Darty plc shares based on a 
percentage of base salary over a period of five years. The table below provides details of these guidelines and executives’  
current holdings in respect of the guidelines, taking into account LTIP and deferred shares.
Director Guideline
% of salary held at 
30 April 2015
Régis Schultz 150% of salary 50.0%
Dominic Platt 100% of salary 6.2%
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors, which include holdings by their spouses or other related parties, together with  
non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in the table below.
Director
30 April 
2015
30 April 
2014
Régis Schultz 339,000 339,000
Dominic Platt 30,000 30,000
Alan Parker 459,000 459,000
Pascal Bazin 25,000 25,000
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo 25,000 25,000
Michel Léonard 30,000 30,000
Antoine Metzger 25,000 25,000
Alison Reed 20,000 20,000
Agnès Touraine 40,000 40,000 50 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
Review of past performance
Historical TSR performance
The following performance graph shows the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) for Darty versus the FTSE 350 General Retailer Index 
for the period 30 April 2009 to 30 April 2015. The Committee believes that the FTSE 350 General Retailer Index is an objective 
comparator group for measuring the Company’s TSR and provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging performance.
Apr 15 Apr 14 Apr 13 Apr 12 Apr 11 Apr 10 Apr 09
TSR
(rebased to 100)
FTSE 350 General Retailers
Darty
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
CEO single figure of remuneration
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO over the same six-year period. The total remuneration figure 
includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards that vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and LTIP 
percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Thierry 
Falque- 
Pierrotin
Thierry 
Falque- 
Pierrotin
Thierry 
Falque- 
Pierrotin
Thierry 
Falque- 
Pierrotin
Dominic 
Platt
*
Régis 
Schultz
**
Régis 
Schultz
Régis 
Schultz
Single total figure ¤2,381,978 ¤1,468,77 4 ¤1,936,906 ¤770,489 ¤277 ,627 ¤13,898 ¤1,377 ,7 49 ¤1,004,236
Annual bonus (%) 95% 15% 0% 0% 57% 0% 91% 35%
LTIP vesting (%) – – 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
* Single figure represents payments made in respect of the four-month period in which Dominic Platt was acting CEO. It is based on salary paid during this period  
and the total value of benefits, pension and bonus paid in respect of the year on a pro-rated basis.
** Single figure represents payments made while CEO during the year from 23 April 2013 to 30 April 2013.
Percentage change in remuneration for the CEO in comparison to other employees
The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus earned between 30 April 2014 and 30 April 2015 for the 
CEO compared to the average percentage change of all French employees as this population represents the majority of the workforce.
Salary Benefits Bonus
CEO 1.5% (17 .6)% (67 .7)%
All employee average 1.5% 0% (4)%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the total pay for all employees compared to other key financial indicators.
2014 
¤m
2015 
¤m
% 
Change
Total employee expenditure 586.2 585.5 (0.1)
Shareholder distributions (dividends and share buy backs) 18.0 18.4 2.2
The increase in dividends is caused by the £/€ exchange rate. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 51
Shareholder voting
At the AGM in September 2014, the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Number of 
votes for 
cast
% 
of votes 
votes cast
Votes for 311,056,130 92.92%
Votes against 23,715,980 7.08%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 334,772,110 100.00%
Votes withheld 87 ,202,839
Remuneration policy for financial year 2015/16
The following provides details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented in financial year 2015/16.
Base salary and fees
Executive Directors’ base salaries and fees with effect from 1 May 2015 are as follows:
Current 2014
% 
change
Régis Schultz £507 ,500 £507 ,500 0
Dominic Platt £360,500 £360,500 0
Taxable benefits, pension and bonus
These will be paid in line with the remuneration policy.
LTIP awards
Awards will be made in line with the remuneration policy for the LTIP. The performance measures and targets for awards to be 
made in September 2015 are detailed below:
Measure Weighting
Threshold vesting 
(25% of the award)
Maximum vesting
 (100% of the award)
EPS 70% 10% growth p.a. 30% growth p.a.
Free cash flow 30% 10% growth p.a. 30% growth p.a.
Performance will be assessed over three financial years but awards will not be released to participants until 50 per cent four years 
following the date of grant and 50 per cent five years following the date of grant.
It should be noted that the stretch of these targets has been set in the context of the Company being in a turnaround phase and 
their appropriateness will be reviewed again next year.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
For 2015 these will be as set out in the policy report.
Annual Bonus 2015/16
Awards will be made in line with the remuneration policy for the annual bonus. Régis Schultz has a maximum opportunity of  
125 per cent of salary and Albin Jacquemont will normally have a maximum opportunity of 100 per cent of salary. Albin’s 
opportunity for 2015/16 has been increased on a pro-rated basis to reflect the fact he joined the Company 2 months prior to the start 
of the financial year and did not receive any bonus for this period. As a result his maximum annual bonus opportunity for 2015/16 will 
be 117 per cent of base salary.
The proportion of the bonus that will be subject to PBT performance will remain the same as in 2014/15 (75 per cent of the 
maximum opportunity). The remainder of the bonus will be subject to a range of individual and strategic objectives.
By Order of the Board
Simon Enoch
Secretary
17 June 2015
Registered Office:  
22-24 Ely Place  
London EC1N 6TE 52 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Corporate governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for  
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose  
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the 
Group and enable them to ensure that  
the financial statements and the 
Directors’ remuneration report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group  
and hence for taking reasonable steps  
for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation
in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names  
and functions are listed in the Directors 
and advisers section, pages 28 and 29 
confirm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
• 
the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group, and
• 
the Directors’ report contained on 
pages 30 to 33 includes a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
 
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual report, the 
Directors’ remuneration report and the 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, and the parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). In preparing the Group financial 
statements, the Directors have also 
elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by 
the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and the Company 
and of the profit of the Group for that 
period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• 
select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
• 
make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
• 
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and IFRSs issued by 
IASB and applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements 
respectively; and
• 
prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In accordance with Section 418, 
Directors’ reports shall include a 
statement, in the case of each Director  
in office at the date the Directors’  
report is approved, that:
(a) so far as the Director is aware,  
there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditors  
are unaware; and
(b) they have taken all the steps  
that they ought to have taken  
as a Director in order to make  
themself aware of any relevant  
audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
The Directors consider that the Annual 
report and accounts, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and 
strategy. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 53
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Darty plc
Report on the group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Darty plc’s group financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Darty plc’s financial statements comprise:
• 
the Group balance sheet as at 30 April 2015;
• 
the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• 
the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended;
• 
the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
• 
Overall group materiality: €3.7 million which represents 5% of Group retail profit.
Audit scope
• 
We conducted audit procedures in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and at the UK head office. The 
locations where we performed audit work accounted for 100% (2014: 100%) of group revenues and 100% 
(2014: 100%) of group retail profit.
Area of focus
• 
Carrying value of leasehold properties in France
• 
Going concern – compliance with debt covenants
• 
Inventory valuation
• 
Accounting for supplier rebate arrangements
• 
Estimation of tax provisions
• 
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we 
also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by 
the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas 
in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 54 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Darty plc
continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Carrying value of leasehold properties in France
Refer to page 36 for the Audit Committee Report and Note 1 (Accounting 
policies), Note 11 (Exceptional items) and Note 13 (Property, plant and 
equipment) to the financial statements.
We included the carrying values of assets related to leasehold property in 
France as a significant risk principally due to the magnitude of the balance 
(€184.4 million as at 30 April 2015) and the continued economic uncertainty 
in France. The socioeconomic conditions are changing consumption 
patterns in the electricals market, as well as increasing pressure on 
margins, resulting in the risk that the value of the assets may be impaired. 
Management has impaired the carrying value of these assets by €11.2 
million in the year and there is a risk that this impairment charge could be 
over or understated.
We assessed the exercise carried out by management to determine whether 
impairment reviews were required at the individual store level, including 
confirmation of the appropriateness of management’s defined cash-
generating units (CGUs). From this assessment and comparison to other 
retailers, we confirmed that it is appropriate to carry out the reviews at the 
individual store level.
We assessed the impairment models prepared by management and 
challenged the data used in the models and assumptions, including forecasts 
and projections, remaining sceptical of explanations and obtaining evidence 
for key assumptions. The inputs into the model are consistent with the 
Group’s Board approved budget and forecasts and we have obtained 
corroborating evidence for the key assumptions used.
We concluded, based on our understanding of the Group, that the models 
used are appropriate and we verified the accuracy of the calculations within 
them.
We reviewed management’s sensitivity analysis and considered further 
realistic sensitivity to key assumptions and underlying cash flows.  
We were satisfied no further impairments were required.
Going concern – compliance with debt covenants
Refer to page 36 for the Audit Committee Report and Note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and Note 2 (Financial risk management) to the financial statements.
We focused on the Directors’ conclusion that it is appropriate to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements because the 
performance of the business has been lower than budgeted, resulting in a 
reduction in the headroom against the debt covenants.
The Group has €242 million of revolving credit facilities. The Group’s 
debt covenants relate to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest  
cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation  
and rent to rent and interest. Compliance with these covenants is thus  
driven largely by business performance.
We evaluated management’s going concern assessment including the latest 
profit forecast, projected future cash flows and projected bank covenants for 
the period of 24 months from April 2015.
We tested the assumptions used in the forecasts and the covenant 
calculations, including challenging and performing sensitivity analyses on the 
key assumptions used in the profit and cash forecasts.
We also considered the likelihood of a covenant breach taking into account 
the effect of a change in the assumptions, available mitigating factors and 
results of sensitivity analyses.
We discussed with the Directors the actions that they considered they could 
take to alter the timing and/or amount of future cash flows and used our 
knowledge of the business to consider the feasibility and likely impact of the 
Directors’ intentions.
Our conclusion on going concern is set out below.
Inventory valuation
Refer to page 36 for the Audit Committee Report and Note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and Note 16 (Inventories) to the financial statements.
Inventory is the largest asset on the group’s balance sheet (€457 million  
as at 30 April 2015). The ongoing economic situation within the electricals 
market continues to create competition due to the pressures on pricing.  
This could result in an increased level of inventory identified for markdown 
within the Group. As such there is a risk that the realisable value of  
inventory will be lower than its recorded cost. 
We tested the valuation of inventory through a combination of testing the 
systems and cost inputs that drive the valuation and then assessing the 
judgements that have been made by management to adjust that valuation, 
such as inventory provisions.
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the controls over the 
inventory valuation process including the ageing of inventory. We concluded 
that we could place reliance on the inventory controls for the purposes of  
our audit.
We compared the purchase price for a sample of inventory items within cost 
of sales to a sample of supplier invoices and also compared this to the latest 
sales price of the inventory to ensure that the inventory is recorded at the 
lower of cost and net realisable value. All items could be agreed to underlying 
supporting documentation and were appropriately valued at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value.
We compared a sample of the other cost adjustments, for example the 
inclusion of warehouse costs, included within the inventory valuation back 
to supporting documentation and verified these costs were allowable under 
accounting standards. From the testing performed no exceptions were noted. 
We also assessed the reasonableness of the judgements involved in the year-
end mark down provisions applied to the year-end inventory valuation. This 
was achieved through comparing the provisions against the prior year and 
assessing the provision against the ageing of inventory by category,  
as well as our knowledge of the business. We deemed the judgements 
involved appropriate. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 55
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for supplier rebate arrangements
Refer to page 36 for the Audit Committee Report and Note 1 (Accounting 
policies) to the financial statements.
The Group receives rebates from its suppliers and this remains an area of 
focus due to the quantum of income recorded under these arrangements 
and its significance in relation to the result for the period. It is also an area 
of heightened focus in light of recent market announcements. The amount 
to be recognised in the income statement for elements of rebate income 
requires management to apply judgement based on the contractual terms 
in place with suppliers and estimates of amounts the Group is entitled to 
where transactions span the financial year end.
The Group negotiates and agrees the contracts with suppliers, and then has 
to determine income to be recorded based on interim payments received 
during the year and estimates provided by suppliers for amounts due at the 
year end. The key judgement that we therefore focus on in the calculation of 
the Group’s rebates from suppliers is the amount to be accrued at the year 
end, based on volume estimates. 
We read a sample of contractual agreements with the suppliers to understand 
the rebate mechanisms in place and assessed whether rebates received, and 
receivable, by the Group have been accounted for in the correct financial 
period and in accordance with the specific terms of these agreements. From 
inspection of a sample of these agreements we determined that the terms 
and conditions had been appropriately considered in the calculations of 
rebates receivable.
For a sample, we vouched the actual cash rebates received during the year 
and compared against the prior year estimate to assess the accuracy of the 
estimation process. We determined that the level of current period receipts 
supported the assumptions around collectability of prior period rebates 
receivable.
We tested the year-end supplier rebate calculations and compared these 
against the contractual agreements as well as against the prior year to 
understand the movement year on year. We did not identify any significant 
differences between the re-calculations we performed and the amounts 
recognised.
Estimation of tax provisions
Refer to page 36 for the Audit Committee Report and Note 1 (Accounting 
policies), Note 7 (Continuing Group Income tax expense) and Note 24 
(Provisions) to the financial statements.
As a result of ongoing tax audits in France, there has been an increase in 
potential tax exposure and therefore judgement involved in determining the 
level of provisions required.
We performed detailed testing of the Group tax charge and provision 
calculations. We tested the rates applied to calculation provisions by 
comparing to publicly available information.
We reviewed external evidence, where possible, to support management’s 
position regarding certain exposures. We utilised local tax experts in France 
and challenged the level of provisions against the total potential exposures.
We found that the judgements made by management were consistent with 
our views and the audit evidence we had obtained.
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities
Refer to page 36 for the Audit Committee Report and Note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and Note 32 (Retirement benefits) to the financial statements.
We focused on this area because of the impact of the defined benefit 
pension plan liability to the overall balance sheet and judgements inherent 
in the actual assumptions involved in the valuation. The net pension 
liability at 30 April 2015 was €103.4 million (2014: €104.6 million). The 
Group’s pension liabilities continue to be sensitive to changes in actuarial 
assumptions, which require significant judgement and technical expertise.
We reviewed the pension assumptions, including discount rates, salary 
increases, inflation, and mortality, utilising our specialist knowledge of 
pensions. We considered and challenged the reasonableness of the actuarial 
assumptions comparing the discount and inflation rates used to our internally 
developed benchmark ranges, finding them to be within an acceptable range.
We confirmed that the valuation methods had been consistently applied 
against the prior year.
We obtained confirmations of plan assets from third parties and found them 
to be in agreement with the underlying records.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the 
industry in which the group operates.
The group is structured across two geographic segments, being: France; and Belgium (New Vanden Borre) and the Netherlands 
(BCC). The group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up these two segments.
The group’s accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the group operates. 
At a group level, a separate finance team consolidates the reporting packs of France, Belgium, the Netherlands, the central 
functions and discontinued operations.
In our view, due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, the businesses in France and Belgium required an audit of their 
complete financial information. We used component auditors from PwC and non-PwC firms who are familiar with the local laws and 
regulations in each of the identified territories to perform this work.
Specific audit procedures were also performed in the Netherlands based on the areas of risk identified at this location.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial 
statements as a whole. The group engagement team visited France and New Vanden Borre head offices given the significance of 
these locations to the group and attended clearance meetings between local management and the component auditors, either in 
person or by call.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement 
team at the UK head office. These included pensions, tax and share-based payments.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 100 per cent of group revenues and 
100 per cent of group retail profit. 56 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Darty plc
continued
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of 
our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality €3.7 million (2014: €4.1 million).
How we determined it 5% of Group retail profit. Retail profit is defined as ‘total operating profit before the 
share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, movement in options and 
related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available-for-sale 
investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items and 
amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets’.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that retail profit is a key indicator for the Group as it excludes exceptional 
items and therefore relates solely to the trading performance of the ongoing business 
and is a measure used by the shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €200,000 
(2014: €200,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern.  
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using 
the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As 
part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the  
group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
• the statement given by the directors on page 52, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair,  
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the  
group’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of  
the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 35 and 36, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated  
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 57
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of:
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed;
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Darty plc for the year ended 30 April 2015 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
17 June 2015 58 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Note 
2015
 
€m
2014
restated
(b)
€m
Revenue 3 3,512.1 3,404.4
Group operating profit 3 58.9 51.0
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 14 1.4 2.4
Total operating profit 60.3 53.4
Analysed as:
Retail profit 
a)
4 74.9 85.5
Share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation 14 (0.9) (0.8)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests 2 – (3.2)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 3 1.4 2.7
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses (1.3) (1.4)
Exceptional items 11 (13.7) (29.4)
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets (0.1) –
Total operating profit 3 60.3 53.4
Finance costs 5 (27 .4) (16.0)
Profit before income tax 32.9 37.4
Taxation 7 (17 .8) (26.6)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 15.1 10.8
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 10 (1.3) (17 .4)
Profit/(loss) for the year 13.8 (6.6)
Profit/(loss) attributable to:
– Owners of the parent 14.2 (3.4)
– Non-controlling interests (0.4) (3.2)
13.8 (6.6)
Earnings/(losses) per share – basic and diluted (cents)
Continuing operations 2.9 2.1
Discontinued operations (0.2) (2.7)
Total earnings/(losses) per share 9 2.7 (0.6)
Notes
a)  Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, movement in options and related charges over 
non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items and amortisation and 
impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
b)  Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7) and the legacy 
UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs (note 5).
c) The notes on pages 63 to 109 form part of these financial statements.
Group income statement
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 59
Note 
2015
 
€m
2014
restated
(a)
€m
Profit for the financial year – continuing operations 4 15.1 10.8
Loss for the financial year – discontinued operations (1.3) (17 .4)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations 32 (0.2) (25.3)
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) 6.7 (1.1)
6.5 (26.4)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences (6.4) (2.3)
Fair value gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 0.3 (0.3)
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) (0.1) 0.1
(6.2) (2.5)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 0.3 (28.9)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 14.1 (35.5)
Attributable to:
– Owners of the parent 14.8 (34.5)
– Non-controlling interests (0.7) (1.0)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 14.1 (35.5)
Notes
a) Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, and the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7).
b) The notes on pages 63 to 109 form part of these financial statements.
Group statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 30 April 2015 60 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Share 
capital 
€m
Demerger and 
other reserves 
€m
Translation 
reserve 
€m
Accumulated 
losses
€m
Total 
shareholders’ 
deficit
€m
Non-controlling 
interests
€m
Total 
deficit
€m
At 1 May 2014 158.9 971.6 14.2 (1,452.0) (307 .3) (9.6) (316.9)
Profit for the period from continuing operations – – – 15.0 15.0 0.1 15.1
Loss for the period from discontinued operations – – – (0.8) (0.8) (0.5) (1.3)
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations (note 32) – – – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – 6.7 6.7 – 6.7
– – – 6.5 6.5 – 6.5
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences – – (6.1) – (6.1) (0.3) (6.4)
Fair value gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges – 0.3 – – 0.3 – 0.3
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) – (0.1) – – (0.1) – (0.1)
– 0.2 (6.1) – (5.9) (0.3) (6.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – 0.2 (6.1) 20.7 14.8 (0.7) 14.1
Transactions with owners:
Dividends (note 8) – – – (18.4) (18.4) (0.6) (19.0)
Employee share schemes – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Sale of Company with non-controlling interest – – – (2.8) (2.8) 0.3 (2.5)
Re-purchase of non-controlling interest – – – (9.6) (9.6) 9.6 –
At 30 April 2015 158.9 971.8 8.1 (1,461.7) (322.9) (1.0) (323.9)
Share 
capital 
€m
Demerger and 
other reserves
 
€m
Translation 
reserve 
€m
Accumulated 
losses
restated
(a)
€m
Total 
shareholders’ 
deficit
restated
(a)
€m
Non-controlling 
interests
€m
Total 
deficit 
restated
(a)
€m
At 1 May 2013 158.9 971.8 18.7 (1,401.3) (251.9) (10.9) (262.8)
Prior year adjustment in respect of CVAE reclassification (note 7) – – – (1.0) (1.0) – (1.0)
At 1 May 2013 restated 158.9 971.8 18.7 (1,402.3) (252.9) (10.9) (263.8)
Profit for the period from continuing operations – – – 10.8 10.8 – 10.8
Loss for the period from discontinued operations – – – (14.2) (14.2) (3.2) (17 .4)
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations (note 32) – – – (25.3) (25.3) – (25.3)
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – (1.1) (1.1) – (1.1)
– – – (26.4) (26.4) – (26.4)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences – – (4.5) – (4.5) 2.2 (2.3)
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges – (0.3) – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
– (0.2) (4.5) – (4.7) 2.2 (2.5)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – (0.2) (4.5) (29.8) (34.5) (1.0) (35.5)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends (note 8) – – – (18.0) (18.0) – (18.0)
Employee share schemes – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Re-purchase of non-controlling interest – – – (2.3) (2.3) 2.3 –
At 30 April 2014 158.9 971.6 14.2 (1,452.0) (307 .3) (9.6) (316.9)
Notes
a)  Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, and the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7).
The demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable. Other reserves comprise a reserve 
arising from the first time adoption of IAS 39 in February 2006, a redenomination reserve created upon the redenomination  
of ordinary shares in September 2010 and the hedging reserve comprising the fair value movements on forward foreign  
exchange contracts.
Group statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 61
Note
2015
 
€m 
2014
restated
(a)
€m
2013
restated
(a)
€m 
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 68.6 64.3 62.8
Property, plant and equipment 13 321.2 343.9 369.0
Investments 14 15.1 15.3 23.9
Available-for-sale financial assets 15 1.0 – –
Other receivables 18 9.7 11.2 15.3
Deferred income tax assets 26 – 0.3 1.4
Total non-current assets 415.6 435.0 472.4
Current assets
Inventories 16 456.8 474.2 477.9
Trade and other receivables 17 218.3 221.5 197 .2
Income tax receivable 9.6 4.2 15.4
Cash and cash equivalents 19 86.9 75.5 68.0
Total current assets 771.6 775.4 758.5
Total assets 1,187 .2 1,210.4 1,230.9
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (11.1) (1.5) (0.3)
Income tax liabilities 25 (15.9) (11.4) (7 .5)
Trade and other payables 20 (837 .0) (887 .4) (884.0)
Derivative financial instruments 23 – (0.3) –
Provisions 24 (1.8) (3.7) (14.6)
Total current liabilities (865.8) (904.3) (906.4)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (297 .7) (259.2) (218.3)
Other payables 22 (223.0) (227 .1) (241.8)
Deferred income tax liabilities 26 (20.4) (30.7) (42.8)
Retirement benefits 32 (103.4) (104.6) (84.8)
Provisions 24 (0.8) (1.4) (0.6)
Total non-current liabilities (645.3) (623.0) (588.3)
Total liabilities (1,511.1) (1,527 .3) (1,494.7)
Net liabilities (323.9) (316.9) (263.8)
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 27 158.9 158.9 158.9
Other reserves 979.9 985.8 990.5
Accumulated losses (1,461.7) (1,452.0) (1,402.3)
Total shareholders’ deficit (322.9) (307 .3) (252.9)
Non-controlling interests (1.0) (9.6) (10.9)
Total equity (323.9) (316.9) (263.8)
Notes
a)  Restated following the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7).
b)  The notes on pages 63 to 109 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 58 to 109 were authorised for issue and approved by the Board of Directors on 17 June 2015 and 
signed on its behalf by
Régis Schultz Dominic Platt
Director  Director
Company registration number: 4232413  
Group balance sheet
As at 30 April 2015 62 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Note
2015
 
€m
2014 
restated
(a)
€m 
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 28 60.7 18.4
Interest paid (22.9) (21.4)
Tax paid (21.2) (9.9)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 16.6 (12.9)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 35 (9.8) 5.4
Sale of discontinued operations, including cash and overdrafts disposed 10 10.1 2.6
Sale of business operation, including cash and overdrafts disposed – 1.9
Sale of available-for-sale investments 1.4 2.7
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (40.2) (48.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 13.9 29.7
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (10.5) (13.4)
Dividends received from associates/joint ventures 14 1.0 11.0
Net cash used in investing activities (34.1) (8.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from borrowings 29 49.8 390.0
Repayments of borrowings 29 – (340.0)
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (18.4) (18.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.6) –
Net cash from financing activities 30.8 32.0
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 13.3 10.5
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at start of year 29 74.0 67.7
Effects of exchange rate changes 29 (0.6) (4.2)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 19 86.7 74.0
Notes
a)  Restated following the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7) and the legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from 
finance costs to operating profit (note 5).
b)  The notes on pages 63 to 109 form part of these financial statements.
 
Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 63
1 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These 
policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the consolidated financial statement are shown in note 37. The financial information set out on 
pages 58 to 109 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Darty plc for the year ended 30 April 2015 prepared in 
accordance with the accounting policies set out below. Darty plc (the Company) is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in 
England and Wales. Its registered office is 22-24 Ely Place, London, EC1N 6TE.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRS IC’) and with those parts of the  
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of foreign currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, 
available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through 
profit or loss and also on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, 
are disclosed in this note.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint 
ventures and associated undertakings. All significant consolidated subsidiary companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the 
Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in 
a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-
controlling interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised directly in the income statement. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquistion basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised 
amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net 
assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Inter-company transactions including income, expenses, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are 
eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
(b) Associates and joint ventures
Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Joint ventures are all operations over 
which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment is 
initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share of the profit or loss 
of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill (net of any 
accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associate’s and joint venture’s post-acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the income statement, its 
share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of 
post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or a joint 
venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does 
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 30 April 2015 64 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
1 Accounting policies continued
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the associates and joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the undertaking operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in Euros, which is the majority of the subsidiaries’ functional currency and the Group’s presentational currency.
(b) Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income 
statement within finance income or costs. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within 
operating profit, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed 
between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security, and other changes in the carrying 
amount of the security. Translation differences are recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying amount are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are 
recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as 
equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the fair value reserve in other comprehensive income.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation 
currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
(iii) Resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings 
and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are taken to equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences are recycled to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Use of adjusted measures
Darty plc believes that retail profit, adjusted profit before tax, EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful 
information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders. Each is defined below:
• 
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associate’s interest and taxation, movement 
in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy UK 
retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible 
assets.
• 
EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets including write-offs.
• 
Adjusted profit before tax represents retail profit less finance costs excluding net interest on pension schemes.
• 
Adjusted earnings per share exclude the effects of discontinued operations, movement in options and related charges over 
non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, 
exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets, net interest on pension schemes and 
tax effects of exceptional and other non-retail profit items. A reconciliation of adjusted earnings per share to basic earnings per 
share is provided in note 9, ‘Earnings per share’.
A reconciliation from retail profit to GAAP measurement of profit is provided in the Group Income Statement. A reconciliation from 
EBITDA to GAAP measurement of profit is provided in note 4, ‘Segmental analysis’.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 65
1 Accounting policies continued
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
These terms are not defined by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other 
companies. They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
Exceptional items
The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of 
the Group’s result from year to year. Exceptional items mainly relate to costs associated with a material restructuring (i.e. 
termination payments, onerous lease charges, asset impairments and other write offs) or a material change to accounting 
estimates which would distort the underlying result.
Segmental information
The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments. These segments are used by the chief operating 
decision maker, identified as the Group Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The reportable segments are as follows:
• 
France (Darty and Mistergooddeal.com)
• 
Belgium and the Netherlands (Vanden Borre and BCC)
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length.
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and fair value of non-controlling interests of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date 
of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is 
included in the carrying value of investments in associates and is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance. Separately 
recognised goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a 
potential impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses 
on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of any goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those CGUs represents a 
separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for 
managing the cash flow of that unit. In practice these are deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.
(b) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
(i) Software
Software costs are costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled 
by the Group. Where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, they are recognised 
as intangible assets. Costs that do not meet the recognition criteria are expensed as incurred. Development costs that are directly 
attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the group are recognised as 
intangible assets when the following criteria are met:
• 
it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use;
• 
management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it;
• 
there is an ability to use or sell the software product;
• 
it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits; 
• 
adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product  
are available; and
• 
 the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Acquired 
computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software. 
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (two to five years). 66 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
1 Accounting policies continued
(ii) Leasehold rights
Amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises or a right to trade from a site are recognised as intangible 
assets. The value in use of these items is calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the 
relevant CGUs. These costs are amortised to their residual value (value in use) over their estimated useful lives (15 to 20 years) on a 
straight line basis. If the value in use calculated is greater than carrying value no amortisation charge is recognised.
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices. Fixtures, fittings and equipment comprise tenants’ 
fixtures and improvements, computers and electronic equipment and motor cars and commercial vehicles. All property, plant and 
equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Assets in the course of construction represent the cost of purchasing, constructing and installing property, plant and equipment 
ahead of their productive use. They are not depreciated until they are brought into use and transferred to an appropriate and 
permanent category of property, plant and equipment on completion of construction, unless there are circumstances indicating an 
impairment of the asset, where provision is made immediately.
Subsequent costs are included in an asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate. These costs are 
included in the carrying amounts only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the 
Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset’s useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 
€1,000 (or equivalent). All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in 
which they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less 
estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives. The depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows:
Land and buildings
Freehold buildings    20 years to residual value
Long leasehold buildings   20 years or remaining lease term if shorter
Short leasehold buildings   over the remaining period of the lease
Tenants’ fixtures and improvements  between five and 20 years
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
Computers and electronic equipment  between two and four years
Motor cars and commercial vehicles   between two and five years
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s 
carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount. When properties are sold the difference between the sale proceeds and net book value is recognised in the 
income statement.
Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for 
impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or that the asset’s use may not generate an economic 
benefit greater than their carrying value. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (as CGUs). For property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, other than goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each 
trading store. The discount rate applied is based upon the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments 
for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs. Non-financial assets other than 
goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. Where an 
impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 67
1 Accounting policies continued
Financial instruments 
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and 
available-for-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines 
the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired 
principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term. Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as 
hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial assets that are 
not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance 
with the Company’s investment and risk strategy.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets through the income statement 
are included in finance costs/income in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, where they 
are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash 
equivalents’ in the balance sheet. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the 
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 
months of the balance sheet date.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired.
Financial liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: A financial liability is classified in this category if acquired 
principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges, and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes. Liabilities in this category are classified as current 
liabilities.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial liabilities that 
are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair basis in accordance 
with the Company’s investment and risk strategy.
(b) Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to 
initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption 
value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading  
(a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through the income statement) unless they are designated as cash flow hedges.  
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement.
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a periodic basis. Should these derivatives 
fail the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly. To the 
extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves 
(net of deferred tax) and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is 
settled. To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income 
statement. 68 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
1 Accounting policies continued
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction outline the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, 
as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an on-going basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives and available-for-sale 
securities) is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by 
the Group is the current bid price; the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example over the counter derivatives) is 
determined using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market 
conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. The 
value of inventory includes the purchase price, costs associated with bringing the inventory to its present location and condition, 
being the supply chain costs (including transport costs to warehouses, logistics costs within the warehouses and transportation 
costs to retail stores) and applicable trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price in the ordinary course of business, less costs estimated to realise the sale of relevant inventory. Provisions have been 
made, if necessary, for slow moving, obsolete and defective inventories.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible it is written off to the income statement. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are 
credited against ‘selling expenses’ in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet, but included within cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash 
flow statement.
Share capital 
The Group only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the 
cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method where appropriate. Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the
ordinary course of business from suppliers. They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. For liabilities at amortised cost, the 
carrying value approximates to fair value as the impact of discounting using market interest rates at the end of the reporting 
period is insignificant.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at 
least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred income tax
Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year. The current income tax charge is 
calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the 
Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where 
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 69
1 Accounting policies continued
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Recognition of deferred income tax assets takes into account IAS12 recognition criteria using the Group’s judgement on the 
probability of future taxable profits being available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Employee benefits
(a) Retirement benefits
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France, which are supplemental to contributions 
paid to mandatory state funded schemes. Company sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance 
companies or trustee administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation. The Group has both 
defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a retirement benefit under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group 
has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees 
the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a retirement benefit that is not 
a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
For defined benefit plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the 
balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related retirement benefit liability.
Remeasurements arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the 
statement of comprehensive income. Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Scheme expenses 
relating to the legacy UK pension scheme have been charged to the income statement as part of operating costs.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a 
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an 
asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
(b) Share-based compensation
The Group operates equity settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, 
profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options 
that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment 
to equity. 
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee 
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably 
committed either to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of 
withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due 
more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value. 70 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
1 Accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely 
than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at the present value of the 
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as 
interest expense. Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
If the Group has a contract that is onerous the present obligation under the contract is recognised and measured as a provision. 
The provision is the lower of the cost of exiting the contract and the cost of fulfilling the obligation.
A warranty provision estimates the future costs of warranty repairs that will be carried out on products already sold. This provision 
looks forward to periods over which the warranties will expire, and is calculated on a consistent basis year on year.
Restructuring provisions, comprising lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when 
plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on 
or before the balance sheet date. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive obligation to meet the costs of restructure. This arises when there is 
a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least the business or part of the business concerned, principal locations 
affected and the location, function and approximate number of employees to be compensated for terminating their services.
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits 
will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. The amount of 
revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved. The Group bases 
its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each 
arrangement.
Revenues from sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, 
whichever is later. Retail sales are usually settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide 
for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
Darty has the right to charge the franchisee an up-front fee to establish the necessary links (which are mainly IT related) to the 
Darty infrastructure. These fees are accounted for when the store opens. On an ongoing basis, the franchisee will pay a licence  
fee for the use of the brand which is accrued as the rights are used. In addition the franchisee will purchase inventories and 
compensate Darty for related logistics costs and after-sales service cover for each product sale. Inventory sales are recognised 
when the title passes net of the anticipated cost of services for each product sold.
Revenues from services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of 
the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided. 
Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
The Group sells extended warranty and service contracts. Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these 
contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period 
of manufacturer’s warranty. Direct costs associated with the sale of the warranty are also deferred and charged over the period for 
which the cover is provided.
Where the Group sells an extended warranty or service contract and a third party insurance company has responsibility for 
contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale. Where part of the 
obligation under these contracts is re-insured by the Group, the revenue relating to the re-insurance is recognised over the period 
of risk, excluding any period of manufacturer’s warranty.
If an extended warranty is sold by a franchisee, Darty will provide all after-sales support and so bear the risk and reward relating to 
that warranty. As with other extended warranty sales, the corresponding revenue and the direct extended warranty selling cost 
(i.e. the franchisee commission) is spread over the period of risk.
Finance income and costs
Finance income and costs are recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 71
1 Accounting policies continued
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any financial incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into a lease are deferred and spread on a straight-line basis over the  
life of the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee’s benefit from the use of the 
leased asset.
Lease premiums payable are recorded as a prepayment in the balance sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life  
of the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee’s benefit from the use of the  
leased asset.
Charges made in respect of operating lease of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews. 
In particular, in France, Belgium and the Netherlands, there is an annual indexation linked to local price inflation. This is agreed 
annually and costs are adjusted when agreed and accrued from that date.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is certain.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale, and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if 
their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. A 
discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business that has been 
disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Effect of new standards
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. The following standards, amendments and 
interpretations were adopted for the year ended 30 April 2015 and have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group.
IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’
IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’
IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities’
IAS 27 (revised 2011), ‘Separate Financial Statements’
IAS 28 (revised 2011), ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’
Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’
Amendment to IAS 36, ‘Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets’
Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting’
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following standards and interpretations:
IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’
IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (applicable for the year ending 30 April 2019)
Amendment to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain 
critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements 
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
a) Estimated impairment of assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in this 
note. In addition, other asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that 
an impairment may be required. The recoverable amounts of Cash-Generating Units (‘CGU’) have been determined based on 
value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow forecasts for each CGU and 
discount rates based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the 
relevant business. Please refer to the intangible assets note and the property, plant and equipment note for details of the key 
assumptions used in these impairment reviews.  72 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
1 Accounting policies continued
b) Retirement benefits
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France. Any net deficit or surplus arising on 
defined benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet. The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at 
the balance sheet date. Plan assets are based on market value at that date. Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates of the 
present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members. The most sensitive assumptions involved in 
calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates, price inflation and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of 
the liabilities. The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of 
inflation. 
c) Taxation
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. There are a number of complex tax transactions 
which result in tax exposures across the Group. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of 
whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is 
made.
d) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, both types of cost being 
measured using a weighted average cost formula (see note 11). Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less costs estimated to realise the sale of relevant stock. Net realisable value includes, where 
necessary, provisions for slow moving and damaged inventory. The provision represents the difference between the cost of stock 
and its estimated net realisable value, based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be made which 
include forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic environment and inventory loss trends.
e) Supplier income
The contributions due from suppliers is material and the accounting involves an element of judgement in determining the amount 
and timing of income to be recognised. The major proportion of supplier contributions comes from annual agreements with 
suppliers for volume rebates, sometimes conditional on agreed targets. Buyers negotiate the contracted agreements, these will 
vary in period length by supplier with reconciliations by supplier performed in order to ensure that all rebates booked have been 
phased appropriately and are recoverable. All rebates are included within cost of sales. Where supplier contributions are provided 
based on specific activities or services performed they are recognised over the period that those services are provided. Funding for 
a specific marketing campaign is netted from marketing costs over the period of the campaign.
Principal rates of exchange
GBP Czech Kr Turkish Lira
Average rate – year ended 30 April 2015 0.7771 27.5794 2.8347
Closing rate – 30 April 2015 0.7312 27 .4630 2.9995
Average rate – year ended 30 April 2014 0.8414 26.5792 2.7506
Closing rate – 30 April 2014 0.8219 27.4550 2.9295
Average rate – year ended 30 April 2013 0.8177 25.3412 2.3139
Closing rate – 30 April 2013 0.8477 25.7865 2.3604
2 Financial risk management
Treasury policy
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. The Board establishes the Group’s financial policies 
and the Chief Executive Officer establishes objectives in line with these policies. The Treasury Committee, under the supervision of 
the Finance Director, is then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company 
Treasury teams. Approved Treasury policy defines and classifies risks and also determines, by category of transaction, specific 
approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the functional 
currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the 
Group’s investments in foreign operations.
Group Treasury policy requires Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional currency.  
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in 
the Group use forward and foreign exchange swap contracts, transacted through Group treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises 
when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s 
functional currency. Foreign currency swaps are held for trading. Underlying assets or liabilities are held for all currency swaps 
that the Group entered into.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 73
2 Financial risk management continued
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates. Foreign exchange risk arises 
because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products. 
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group financial statements into euros. Cash flow and fair value interest 
rate risk comprises the fair value interest rate risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates and the cash flow interest rate risk 
that results from borrowing at variable rates. 
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial 
instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios. Credit risk is managed by investing in liquid 
assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Group’s Treasury policy.  
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions. 
The Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loan agreements expire. Concentrations of credit risk with respect  
to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Due to this, the Directors believe  
there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
Subsidiary companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally. The Treasury Committee 
reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Group’s intragroup loans portfolio on a regular basis.
Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks. It uses a combination of 
derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks. Treasury operations are conducted 
within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee. 
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk. The Board and 
Treasury Committee receive regular reports of the activities of Group treasury.
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to 
provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the 
cost of capital.
The principal sources of capital to fund the Group’s operations are equity (note 27), a non-convertible bond (note 21), bank 
borrowings (note 21) and operating leases on properties (note 33). Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding 
requirements; funds are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property leases 
relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies in the industry.
Market Risk
(1) Foreign exchange risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in euros and conducts business in several foreign currencies. It is therefore subject to 
foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Group’s transaction costs and the translation of results 
and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into euros of its foreign currency net 
assets by minimising the net assets held in non-euro currencies. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets 
held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management. Permission of Group treasury is required before a 
foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken. Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying 
exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged. The gain 
or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
(2) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held 
constant, finance costs to 30 April 2015 would have been €0.1m (30 April 2014: €0.3m) higher. If interest rates on euro-
denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, finance costs to 
30 April 2015 would have been €1.2m (30 April 2014: €2.9m) higher. 74 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
2 Financial risk management continued
Credit risk
Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a short-term credit 
rating of A1 or better. Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those 
counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. Exposures are managed through Group treasury policy 
which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss. The maximum credit risk 
exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding 
through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. The Group maintains 
committed bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned 
expenditure.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the 
table are the contractual principal repayments. Balances equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not 
significant.
2015
Within 
one year 
€m
Between 
one and 
two years 
€m
Between 
two and
five years 
€m
Over 
five years
€m
Finance lease liability 0.5 0.5 0.9 –
Trade and other payables 721.2 0.1 1.8 0.4
Borrowings 11.1 – 53.2 244.5
2014 (restated)
Within 
one year 
€m
Between 
one and 
two years 
€m
Between 
two and
five years 
€m
Over 
five years
€m
Trade and other payables 768.0 2.0 – 0.8
Borrowings 1.5 – 15.6 243.6
Restated following the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7).
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table 
are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of 
discounting is not significant.
2015
Within 
one year 
€m
Between 
one and 
two years 
€m
Between 
two and
five years 
€m
Over 
five years
€m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 
Outflow (49.1) – – –
Inflow 49.1 – – –
Foreign currency swap – held for trading
Outflow – – – –
Inflow – – – –
2014
Within 
one year 
€m
Between 
one and 
two years 
€m
Between 
two and
five years 
€m
Over 
five years
€m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 
Outflow (26.7) – – –
Inflow 26.5 – – –
Foreign currency swap – held for trading
Outflow (2.7) – – –
Inflow 2.4 – – –
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 75
2 Financial risk management continued
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans. The covenants are of a financial nature and 
relate mainly to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest. During the year ending 30 
April 2015, the Group is in compliance with its covenants.
The revolving credit facility agreement includes financial covenants requiring: (i) that the ratio of adjusted consolidated net debt to 
consolidated EBITDA (each as defined in the revolving credit facility agreement) does not exceed the ratio of 2.50:1.00; and (ii) that 
the ratio of consolidated EBITDAR to consolidated net interest payable plus rents (each as defined in the revolving credit facility 
agreement) is not less than the ratio of 1.50:1.00. These financial covenants are tested at the end of each financial year and each 
financial half-year of the Company.
Fair value estimation
Financial instruments are measured in the balance sheet at fair value. This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level 
of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
• 
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
• 
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as 
prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
• 
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A 
market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, 
pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s 
length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments are 
included in level 1.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over the counter derivatives) is 
determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is 
available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are 
observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
As announced on 7 August 2014, during the year the Group completed an agreement to sell its 60 per cent shareholding in Datart 
International in a deal valued at €5 million. Of the total consideration, €1m was given as shares in SEW-1001 a.s., a company based 
in the Czech Republic. These have been classified as level 2 financial instruments because the Group holds a put option over these 
shares valuing them at €1m. The carrying value approximates the fair value.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
• 
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments (level 1),
• 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable 
yield curves (level 2),
• 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with 
the resulting value discounted back to present value (level 2), and
• 
Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial 
instruments (level 3).
Options over shares in Group undertakings 
A put and call option that was held by Darty plc over the non-controlling share capital of Kesa Turkey Limited was recognised at fair 
value through profit and loss, in accordance with IAS 39.
The option was entered into in September 2009 and contained a minimum price for the non-controlling shareholding and 
accordingly this minimum price had been spread evenly up to the contracted exercise date in December 2015. As a result of  
the disposal of Darty Turkey, the liability has crystallised and was fully accrued at 30 April 2014 and settled in full during the 
current year. 76 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
2 Financial risk management continued
The net income statement benefit relating to options over non-controlling interests is shown in the table below:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Gains in options over non-controlling interests – –
Put and call option long term incentive charge – recognised in the income statement – (3.2)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests – (3.2)
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 April 2015:
2015
Level 1 
€m
Level 2 
€m
Level 3 
€m
Total 
€m
Available-for-sale financial assets – 1.0 – 1.0
Total assets – 1.0 – 1.0
2014
Level 1 
€m
Level 2 
€m
Level 3 
€m
Total 
€m
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges – (0.3) – (0.3)
Total liabilities – (0.3) – (0.3)
All derivative financial assets are held with counterparties with AA credit ratings.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements,
2015
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial assets 
€m
Related amounts of 
financial liabilities not set 
off in the balance sheet 
€m
Net 
amount 
€m
Cash at bank and in hand – – –
Trade receivables 36.3 (36.3) –
36.3 (36.3) –
2014 (restated)
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial assets 
€m
Related amounts of 
financial liabilities not set 
off in the balance sheet 
€m
Net 
amount 
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 (0.3) –
Trade receivables 40.4 (40.4) –
40.7 (40.7) –
The prior year comparative figures have been restated to ensure comparability with the basis of preparation of the current year 
numbers. The trade receivables amount disclosed in the prior year accounts has been changed from €43.9m to €40.4m and the 
amount eligible for offset has been changed from €42.4m to €40.4m. The cash at bank and in hand figure has been changed from 
€4.3m to €0.3m and the amount eligible for offset has been changed from €4.3m to €0.3m.
The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements,
2015
Gross amounts  
of recognised  
financial liabilities 
€m
Related amounts of 
financial assets not set 
off in the balance sheet 
€m
Net  
amount 
€m
Bank overdrafts – – –
Trade payables 207.9 (36.3) 171.6
207.9 (36.3) 171.6
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 77
2 Financial risk management continued
2014 (restated)
Gross amounts  
of recognised 
financial liabilities 
€m
Related amounts of 
financial assets not set 
off in the balance sheet 
€m
Net 
amount 
€m
Bank overdrafts 7.5 (0.3) 7.2
Trade payables 190.5 (40.4) 150.1
198.0 (40.7) 157.3
The prior year comparative figures have been restated to ensure comparability with the basis of preparation of the current year 
numbers. The trade payables amount disclosed in the prior year accounts has been changed from €225.0m to €190.5m and the 
amount eligible for offset has been changed from €42.4m to €40.4m. The bank overdrafts figure has been changed from €4.3m to 
€7.5m and the amount eligible for offset has been changed from €4.3m to €0.3m.
Credit quality of financial assets
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings 
(if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates:
Group
2015
€m
2014 
€m
Trade receivables
Counterparties with external credit rating:
A 17.3 24.4
BB 0.5 –
BBB 13.9 11.1
31.7 35.5
Counterparties without external credit rating:
Group 1 2.6 5.4
Group 2 92.4 77.0
Group 3 4.4 10.8
99.4 93.2
Total trade receivables before impairment 131.1 128.7
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits
AA 32.1 12.8
A 49.1 55.8
BBB 2.0 4.1
BB – –
Cash in Store 0.4 (2.7)
Cash in Transit 3.3 5.5
86.9 75.5
Group 1 – new customers/related parties (less than six months).
Group 2 – existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with no defaults in the past.
Group 3 – existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with some defaults in the past. All defaults were fully recovered. 78 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
3 Continuing Group operating profit
2015
€m
2014 
restated  
€m 
Analysis by function:
Revenue 3,512.1 3,404.4
Cost of sales (2,397 .2) (2,275.0)
Distribution costs (179.9) (162.4)
Selling expenses (731.7) (738.0)
Administrative expenses (133.8) (151.2)
Other income 3.1 4.5
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests – (3.2)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 1.4 2.7
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses (1.3) (1.4)
Exceptional items (13.7) (29.4)
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets (0.1) –
Group operating profit 58.9 51.0
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 1.4 2.4
Total operating profit 60.3 53.4
Group total revenue includes revenue from services in the year ended 30 April 2015 of €244.9m (2014: €237.6m). Such revenues 
predominantly comprise those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs and product 
support. This figure also includes royalties received totalling €6.0m (2014: €9.7m).
The gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments arose from the sale of Go Sport S.A. €1.4m (2014: €2.7m) was received during 
the current year, when the purchaser of these Go Sport shares completed a takeover of the rest of the company for a higher price, 
which triggered additional proceeds of €1.4m for the Group under the share sale contract.
Other income is from the sub-leasing of property.
Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to 
taxation (note 7) and the legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs 
(note 5).
4 Segmental analysis
The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments. These segments are used by the chief operating 
decision-maker, identified as the Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The reportable segments, all of which derive their revenue primarily from the retail of electrical goods, are as follows:
• 
France (Darty and Mistergooddeal.com)
• 
Belgium & the Netherlands (Vanden Borre and BCC)
Datart was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 July 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase agreement with 
SEW-1001 a.s., a company based in the Czech Republic. Its results have been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Darty Spain was classified as a discontinued operation on 30 June 2013, following the closure of its stores, and its results have 
been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Darty Turkey was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 January 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with Bimeks A.S., an electrical retailer in Turkey. Its results have been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 79
4 Segmental analysis continued
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length. There is no material difference between revenue by origin and destination.
2015
France
€m
Belgium & the 
Netherlands 
€m
Unallocated 
€m
Continuing 
Group 
€m
Revenue 2,813.5 698.6 – 3,512.1
EBITDA* 107.7 20.9 (9.8) 118.8
Depreciation and amortisation (44.5) (6.1) (0.1) (50.7)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs 6.8 – – 6.8
Retail profit/(loss) 70.0 14.8 (9.9) 74.9
Share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation (0.9) – – (0.9)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 1.4 – – 1.4
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses – – (1.3) (1.3)
Exceptional items (13.7) 1.5 (1.5) (13.7)
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets – (0.1) – (0.1)
Operating profit/(loss) 56.8 16.2 (12.7) 60.3
Finance costs (27 .4)
Finance costs – net (27 .4)
Profit before income tax 32.9
Income tax expense (17 .8)
Profit for the year 15.1
*  EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including 
write-offs.
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for France is €2.3m. The share of 
post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of France is €0.9m.
EBITDA includes reversals of impairment totalling €0.4m all of which are in the France segment.
France
€m
Belgium & the 
Netherlands 
€m
Unallocated 
€m
Continuing 
Group 
€m
Segmental total assets 914.8 197 .5 89.0 1,201.3
Segmental liabilities (975.2) (136.4) (413.1) (1,524.7)
Segmental capital expenditure 39.4 18.1 0.3 57.8
Segmental property lease rental costs 66.2 23.3 0.4 89.9
Investments in equity accounted joint venture and associates of €15.1m are included within the segment assets of France.
Segment assets include available-for-sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible 
assets, inventories, receivables, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally. Unallocated assets include centrally held 
cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, 
accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally. Unallocated liabilities 
include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions. 80 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
4 Segmental analysis continued
2014 restated
(a)
France
€m
Belgium & the 
Netherlands 
€m
Unallocated 
€m
Continuing 
Group 
€m
Revenue 2,717 .7 686.7 – 3,404.4
EBITDA* 123.7 14.5 (9.4) 128.8
Depreciation and amortisation (44.8) (5.3) (1.4) (51.5)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs 8.3 0.1 (0.2) 8.2
Retail profit/(loss) 87.2 9.3 (11.0) 85.5
Share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation (0.8) – – (0.8)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests – – (3.2) (3.2)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 2.7 – – 2.7
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses – – (1.4) (1.4)
Exceptional loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment including write-offs (3.6) – – (3.6)
Exceptional items (22.4) (3.1) (0.3) (25.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 63.1 6.2 (15.9) 53.4
Finance costs (16.0)
Finance costs – net (16.0)
Profit before income tax 37.4
Income tax expense (26.6)
Profit for the year 10.8
a)  Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to taxation (note 7) and the legacy 
UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs (note 5).
*  EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including 
write-offs.
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for France is €3.2m. The share of 
post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of France is €2.4m.
EBITDA is net of impairment charges (including reversals) totalling €3.3m all of which are in the France segment.
France
€m
Belgium & the 
Netherlands 
€m
Unallocated 
€m
Continuing 
Group 
€m
Segmental total assets 937.5 167.7 69.1 1,17 4.3
Segmental liabilities (956.0) (122.5) (420.5) (1,499.0)
Segmental capital expenditure 49.8 8.7 – 58.5
Segmental property lease rental costs 61.6 24.2 3.0 88.8
Investments in equity accounted joint venture and associates of €15.3m are included within the segment assets of France.
Segment assets include available-for-sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible 
assets, inventories, receivables, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally. Unallocated assets include centrally held 
cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, 
accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally. Unallocated liabilities 
include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.
5 Continuing Group finance costs
2015
€m
2014 
restated 
€m
Interest payable on borrowings 20.0 10.6
Loan commitment fees and the amortisation of loan and bond arrangement fees 4.5 2.5
Net interest on pension schemes 3.8 2.6
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (0.9) 0.3
Finance costs 27.4 16.0
Foreign exchange gains and losses arise on the retranslation of short term deposits and loans denominated in a currency other 
than the operation’s functional currency.
Following the implementation of IAS19 Revised, the Group has reclassifed the administration costs associated with the legacy UK 
pension scheme as an operating cost. This is to bring the Group into line with how others are reporting such costs and is being 
treated as a prior year adjustment. As a result, finance costs in 2014 have reduced by €1.4m. These costs have been reclassified as 
an operating cost outside of retail profit as they relate to Comet, a discontinued business.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 81
6 Continuing Group profit before income tax
Note
2015
€m
2014
restated
€m
Analysis of costs by nature
Profit before income tax for continuing group is stated after the following charges/(credits):
Staff costs 30 585.5 586.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 39.2 43.3
Amortisation of intangibles 11.5 8.2
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (included within selling expenses and exceptional items) 11.2 3.4
Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment (included within selling expenses and exceptional items) (0.4) –
Impairment of intangible assets (included within selling expenses and exceptional items) 0.4 –
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs (6.8) (8.2)
Operating lease rentals payable 103.3 99.1
Income from the sub-lease of property (3.1) (4.5)
Cost of inventories written off 29.8 28.0
Reversal of written off inventory (previously accrued provisions now utilised) (13.2) (11.1)
Impairment of trade receivables (included within selling expenses) 3.1 4.6
Cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales 2,449.5 2,291.0
Foreign exchange gains (0.2) (0.5)
Services provided by the Company’s auditors and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors as 
detailed below:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 0.8
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1
– Other non-audit services 0.2 1.0
Total auditors remuneration 1.6 2.4
The other non-audit services relate mainly to the transaction services work supporting the acquisition of HIM stores in the Netherlands.
Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to 
taxation (note 7) and the legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs (note 5).
7 Continuing Group Income tax expense
Analysis of charge in year
2015 
€m
2014 
restated 
€m
UK corporation tax
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.9 0.2
0.9 0.2
Foreign tax
Current tax on profits for the year 7.0 23.6
CVAE 10.7 11.1
Adjustment in respect of prior years 2.4 (0.2)
20.1 34.5
Deferred tax (Note 26)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (3.8) (8.6)
Change in tax rate – (0.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.6 0.7
(3.2) (8.1)
Total income tax expense 17 .8 26.6
Tax on items charged to equity:
Deferred income tax charge/(credit) on cash flow hedges in reserves 0.1 (0.1)
Deferred income tax (credit)/charge on actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligations (6.7) 1.1
Total tax on items (credited)/charged to equity (6.6) 1.0 82 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
7 Continuing Group Income tax expense continued
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax for the year is higher (2014: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below:
2015 
€m
2014 
restated 
€m
Profit on ordinary activities before income tax 32.9 37.4
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% (2014: 23%) 6.9 8.6
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 2.0 6.7
Adjustments in respect of joint venture and associates (0.7) (0.6)
Expenses not taxable (6.9) (0.2)
CVAE 6.7 6.6
Other permanent differences (2.4) (5.8)
Exceptional items not deductible/(taxable) (0.5) (0.2)
Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset (unrelieved tax losses) 8.8 11.0
Change in corporation tax rates – (0.2)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 3.9 0.7
Total income tax expense 17 .8 26.6
Losses not recognised as a deferred tax asset for the current year principally include tax losses arising in BCC, France and UK Head 
office companies (2014: BCC and UK Head office companies).
Profit before tax per Group income statement 32.9 37.4
Share of joint venture and associates taxation 0.9 0.8
Adjusted profit before tax 33.8 38.2
Non-retail profit items 17 .5 33.9
Adjusted profit before tax on continuing operations 51.3 72.1
Income tax expense per Group income statement 17 .8 26.6
Share of joint venture and associates’ taxation 0.9 0.8
Adjusted income tax expense 18.7 27.4
Tax relating to exceptional items and non-retail profit items 1.4 10.5
Adjusted income tax expense on continuing operations 20.1 37.9
Adjusted effective tax rate 39.3% 52.6%
Non-retail profit items represents the sum of total operating profit less retail profit excluding share of joint venture and associates’ 
taxation plus net interest on pensions.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21 per cent to 20 per cent with effect from 1 April 2015. Although the 
effective tax rate is 20.98 per cent the Company’s profits for this accounting period are taxed at 21 per cent as the difference 
between rates is not considered material, at less than €0.1m difference to adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates.
The effect of the changes announced in the Finance Act 2013 will have no impact on the Group’s deferred tax liability in the current 
year or in future years. This is due to management’s expectation that future UK taxable profits are unlikely, with a consequence 
that there are no deferred tax assets/liabilities recognised in the UK tax group at the balance sheet date.
Management have assessed the potential tax risks, which takes into account ongoing tax audits underway around the Group, and 
have made provision accordingly. The Company has received a demand from the French Tax Authority, claiming up to €15.3m in 
unpaid taxes and penalties relating to the Group’s holding company structure. Extensive professional advice has been obtained and 
the Company believes it has a very strong defence and much of the claim is without merit. A provision has been made based on our 
best estimate of the expected outcome.
In order to be consistent with other French retailers, the Group has reclassified the French business tax – la cotisation sur la valeur 
ajoutee des enterprises (‘CVAE’) – as an income tax rather than as previously classified as an operating cost. This change has 
resulted in a prior year adjustment resulting in a €1.0m increase in opening net liabilities at 1 May 2013 due to an increase in non 
current deferred tax liabilities. The impacts on the income statement and net liabilities since the change are summarised in the 
table below:
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 83
7 Continuing Group Income tax expense continued
Impact of the change in CVAE charge accounting policy
2015 
€m
2014
€m
Impact on operating profit 10.7 11.1
Impact on taxation (10.6) (10.8)
Impact on profit for the year from continuing operations 0.1 0.3
Impact on trade and other payables 3.6 3.1
Impact on income tax liabilities (3.6) (3.1)
Impact on deferred income tax liabilities (0.6) (0.7)
8 Dividends
2015 
€m
2014
€m
Final paid 2014: 2.625 cents (2013: 2.625 cents) per share 14.0 13.4
Interim paid 2015: 0.875 cents (2014: 0.875 cents) per share 4.4 4.6
18.4 18.0
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 1 April 2015. In addition the Board will 
also recommend, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 2.625 cents, payable on 13 
November 2015 in relation to the year ending 30 April 2015.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 22 October 2015.
9 Earnings/(losses) per share
Basic earnings/(losses) per share is calculated by dividing the profits/(losses) attributable to shareholders by 527.5m shares (30 
April 2014, 527.5m), being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
There is no difference between diluted and basic losses per share because all incentive schemes are share awards and there are no 
dilutive share options. Supplementary adjusted earnings per share figures are presented. These exclude the effects of discontinued 
operations, movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available-for-sale 
investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related 
intangible assets, net interest on pension schemes, tax effects of exceptional items and other non-retail profit items.
2015 2014 restated
(Losses)/
earnings 
€m
Per share 
amount 
cents
(Losses)/
earnings 
€m
Per share 
amount 
cents
Basic earnings/(losses) per share
Earnings/(losses) attributable to owners of the Parent 14.2 2.7 (3.4) (0.6)
Discontinued operations attributable to owners of the Parent 0.8 0.2 14.2 2.7
Continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 15.0 2.9 10.8 2.1
Adjustments
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests – – 3.2 0.6
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments (1.4) (0.3) (2.7) (0.5)
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses 1.3 0.2 1.4 0.3
Exceptional items 13.7 2.6 29.4 5.5
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 0.1 – – –
Net interest on pension schemes 3.8 0.7 2.6 0.5
Tax relating to exceptional and other non-retail profit items (1.4) (0.3) (10.5) (2.0)
Adjusted earnings per share 31.1 5.8 34.2 6.5
Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to 
taxation (note 7) and the legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs 
(note 5). 84 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
10 Discontinued operations
Datart was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 July 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase agreement with 
SEW-1001 a.s., a company based in the Czech Republic. Its results have been excluded from the Continuing Group.
For the year  
ended 
30 April 
2015 
€m
Total consideration 5.0
Less: Net assets disposed (3.8)
Profit on disposal 1.2
Cash flows from Datart
For the year 
ended
30 April 
2015 
€m
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2014 
€m
Operating activities 2.1 4.4
Investing activities (0.4) (1.5)
Cash flows relating to performance of business 1.7 2.9
Net cash consideration during the period, including cash and overdrafts disposed 1.0 –
Total cash flow 2.7 2.9
Operations classified as discontinued in prior years
Darty Italy was classified as a discontinued operation on 1 March 2013, following the sale of the Group’s Italian operations, and its 
results have been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Darty Spain was classified as a discontinued operation on 30 June 2013, following the closure of its stores, and its results have 
been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Darty Turkey was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 January 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with Bimeks A.S., an electrical retailer in Turkey. Its results have been excluded from the Continuing Group.
The results from Datart, Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey, classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated income 
statement, are stated below.
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2015 
€m
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2014
restated 
€m
Revenue 36.7 276.6
Cost of sales (27 .0) (215.8)
Distribution costs (1.3) (8.4)
Selling expenses (8.6) (55.5)
Administrative expenses (2.6) (12.6)
Exceptional items 0.2 (4.6)
Finance costs – (0.8)
Finance income 0.1 0.1
Loss before income tax (2.5) (21.0)
Taxation relating to performance of business – –
Loss after taxation relating to performance of business (2.5) (21.0)
Net profit on disposal 1.2 3.6
Total loss for the period from discontinued operations (1.3) (17 .4)
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 85
10 Discontinued operations continued
Exceptional items relate to the remeasurement of assets of discontinued operations.
Cash flows from Datart, Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2015 
€m
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2014
restated 
€m
Operating activities (15.3) (56.9)
Investing activities (0.4) (3.2)
Cash flows relating to performance of business (15.7) (60.1)
Net cash consideration during the period, including cash and overdrafts disposed 10.1 2.6
Total cash flow (5.6) (57 .5)
11 Exceptional items 
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
France
Impairment of intangible assets (0.4) –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (11.2) –
Restructuring costs (8.5) (26.0)
Exceptional gain from revised estimate of inventory carrying value 6.4 –
(13.7) (26.0)
Belgium and the Netherlands
Restructuring costs – (3.1)
Exceptional gain from revised estimate of inventory carrying value 1.5 –
1.5 (3.1)
Unallocated
Restructuring costs (1.5) (0.3)
(1.5) (0.3)
Exceptional items in operating loss (13.7) (29.4)
Tax relating to exceptional and other non-retail profit items 1.4 10.5
Exceptional loss for the period (12.3) (18.9)
Exceptional items total €13.7m (pre tax) which arise due to the following:
• 
€14.5m of property related charges and impairment costs in France, mainly as a result of a programme to improve store 
portfolio performance comprising €0.2m of intangible asset impairment, €11.2m of property, plant and equipment impairment 
and €3.1m of property related charges included within restructuring costs;
• 
€4.6m of reorganisation costs in France associated with integrating Mistergooddeal.com into the Darty business along with 
€0.2m of acquisition related goodwill being written-off;
• 
€2.1m of restructuring costs (€1.9m in the unallocated segment and €0.2m in France) relating to the transfer of some head office 
functions from London to Paris; 
• 
€0.2m of HR related cost adjustments to prior period reorganisation costs (€0.6m in France less €0.4m unallocated credit); and
• 
A €7.9m exceptional gain (€6.4m in France and €1.5m in Belgium and the Netherlands) arising on the revised IAS2 estimation of 
distribution costs in the carrying value of inventory to take into account non-storage warehouse and logistics costs.
The revised inventory carrying value estimate is of a costs of sales nature and all other exceptional items are of an administrative 
expenses nature.
There is a tax credit relating to exceptional and other non-retail profit items of €1.4m.
The cash outflow on exceptional items for the Continuing Group during the year was €12.7m (2014: €23.4m). 86 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill 
€m
Software 
€m
Other 
intangibles
€m
Total 
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2014 161.4 169.7 33.7 364.8
Adjustment to fair value of Mistergooddeal.com assets acquired 0.2 (0.1) – 0.1
Reclassifications – 0.3 – 0.3
Additions – separately acquired – 3.3 – 3.3
Additions – internally generated – 7.2 – 7.2
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) 6.5 – 0.8 7.3
Disposals – (8.9) (0.1) (9.0)
As at 30 April 2015 168.1 171.5 34.4 374.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
At 1 May 2014 142.4 136.0 22.1 300.5
Adjustment to fair value of Mistergooddeal.com assets acquired – 0.6 – 0.6
Charge for year – 11.6 0.1 11.7
Disposals – (7 .7) (0.1) (7 .8)
Impairment 0.2 – 0.2 0.4
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 (0.1) – –
As at 30 April 2015 142.7 140.4 22.3 305.4
Net book value
– internally generated – 21.3 – 21.3
– other 25.4 9.8 12.1 47.3
As at 30 April 2015 25.4 31.1 12.1 68.6
Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales €nil, selling expenses €0.5m and 
administrative expenses €11.2m.
Goodwill 
€m
Software 
€m
Other 
intangibles
€m
Total 
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2013 166.4 163.6 35.8 365.8
Reclassifications – 0.1 (0.1) –
Additions – separately acquired – 4.7 0.3 5.0
Additions – internally generated – 8.4 – 8.4
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) – 0.7 – 0.7
Disposals (5.0) (7 .5) (1.9) (14.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.3) (0.4) (0.7)
As at 30 April 2014 161.4 169.7 33.7 364.8
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 May 2013 146.2 132.6 24.2 303.0
Charge for year – 9.0 0.3 9.3
Disposals (3.8) (5.2) (2.1) (11.1)
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.4) (0.3) (0.7)
As at 30 April 2014 142.4 136.0 22.1 300.5
Net book value
– internally generated – 20.5 – 20.5
– other 19.0 13.2 11.6 43.8
As at 30 April 2014 19.0 33.7 11.6 64.3
– internally generated – 14.4 – 14.4
– other 20.2 16.6 11.6 48.4
As at 30 April 2013 20.2 31.0 11.6 62.8
Amortisation charges in the prior year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales €nil, selling expenses €0.8m, 
administrative expenses €8.5m.
Impairment charges in the year of €0.4m were included as exceptional items in the income statement (see note 11).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 87
12 Intangible assets continued
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment based on value in use. Goodwill is tested more 
frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired. Cash-generating units are independent sources of income and 
represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
During the year BCC acquired a chain of retail stores in the Netherlands. The goodwill on acquisition is included in the Belgium and 
the Netherlands business segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segments is as follows:
France
€m
Belgium &  
the Netherlands 
€m
Group 
€m
As at 30 April 2015 0.5 24.9 25.4
As at 30 April 2014 0.5 18.5 19.0
Goodwill impairment review
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling 
prices and costs. Management have estimated the discount rate with regard to the specific risks inherent within the Group’s retail 
businesses. Discount rates used are on a pre-tax basis. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and 
have been adjusted for expected changes in future conditions. The calculations are based on future operating cash flows, over a 
five-year period, derived using Management’s latest medium-term forecasts. Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated long 
term growth rates.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for France and Belgium and the Netherlands are as follows:
• 
Long-term growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2014: 2.0 per cent).
• 
Pre-tax discount rates of between 11.0 per cent and 13.9 per cent (2014: between 13.8 per cent and 14.4 per cent), being the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Other intangibles
Other intangibles comprise amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises, intangible assets acquired in 
business combinations and favourable lease contracts.
The carrying amount of the other intangibles is analysed by business segment as follows:
France
€m
Belgium &  
the Netherlands 
€m
Group 
€m
As at 30 April 2015 11.4 0.7 12.1
As at 30 April 2014 11.6 – 11.6
Other Intangibles are valued at fair value less costs to sell. 88 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
13 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
€m
Fixtures, 
fittings 
and 
equipment 
€m
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
€m
Total 
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2014 326.3 514.0 11.9 852.2
Reclassifications 0.2 6.3 (6.8) (0.3)
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) – 0.8 – 0.8
Additions 4.2 33.0 3.0 40.2
Disposals (13.3) (62.4) – (75.7)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.2) – (0.2)
As at 30 April 2015 317 .4 491.5 8.1 817.0
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 May 2014 94.6 413.7 – 508.3
Adjustment to fair value of Mistergooddeal.com assets acquired – 1.3 – 1.3
Impairment 11.2 – – 11.2
Reversal of impairment (0.4) – – (0.4)
Charge for year 9.7 30.0 – 39.7
Disposals (8.6) (55.7) – (64.3)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – – – –
As at 30 April 2015 106.5 389.3 – 495.8
Net book value
As at 30 April 2015 210.9 102.2 8.1 321.2
Land and 
buildings 
€m
Fixtures, 
fittings 
and 
equipment 
€m
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
€m
Total 
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2013 350.9 566.0 5.7 922.6
Reclassifications 0.7 6.3 (7 .0) –
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) – 1.3 – 1.3
Additions 4.1 31.1 13.3 48.5
Disposals (29.4) (86.0) – (115.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (4.7) (0.1) (4.8)
At 30 April 2014 326.3 514.0 11.9 852.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 May 2013 92.7 460.9 – 553.6
Impairment 3.4 0.1 – 3.5
Reversal of impairment – (0.2) – (0.2)
Charge for year 8.0 37.4 – 45.4
Disposals (9.5) (80.3) – (89.8)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (4.2) – (4.2)
As at 30 April 2014 94.6 413.7 – 508.3
Net book value
As at 30 April 2014 231.7 100.3 11.9 343.9
Net book value
As at 30 April 2013 258.2 105.1 5.7 369.0
The cost of fixtures, fittings and equipment includes €2.1m (2014: nil) in respect of assets held under finance leases. The related 
accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was €0.1m (2014: nil). The net book value of fixtures, fittings and equipment held 
under finance leases was €2.0m (2014: nil).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 89
13 Property, plant and equipment continued
Impairments
Asset impairment reviews are carried out annually or whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that an 
impairment may be required.
For the purposes of impairment testing, each individual store is considered by management to be a cash-generating unit. 
Impairment testing is based on value in use calculations incorporating discount rates derived from the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Impairment of €11.2m (2014: €3.5m) was charged to the income statement during the year and €0.4m (2014: €0.2m) of previously 
held provisions were reversed.
The key assumptions used in the impairment review are based upon the achievement of the Group’s medium-term plan with a 
long-term growth rate of between zero and 2.0 per cent (2014: 2.0 per cent) and pre-tax discount rate of between 11.0 per cent and 
13.9 per cent (2014: between 13.8 per cent and 14.4 per cent). In France, where impairments were incurred, the long-term growth 
rate was between zero and 2.0 per cent (2014: 2.0 per cent) and the pre-tax discount rate was 13.9 per cent (2014: 14.4 per cent).
14 Investments
Joint 
venture 
€m
Associates 
€m
Total 
€m
At 1 May 2014 0.6 14.7 15.3
Share of retained profits in year – 1.4 1.4
Dividends received – (1.0) (1.0)
Disposals (0.6) – (0.6)
As at 30 April 2015 – 15.1 15.1
Joint 
venture 
€m
Associates 
€m
Total 
€m
At 1 May 2013 1.0 22.9 23.9
Share of retained profits in year 0.5 1.9 2.4
Dividends received (0.9) (10.1) (11.0)
As at 30 April 2014 0.6 14.7 15.3
In relation to the Group’s interest in its joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows:
Joint venture Associates
2015 
€m
2014
€m
2015
€m
2014 
€m
Income 2.0 5.2 32.9 33.6
Expense (2.0) (4.7) (30.6) (30.9)
Profit before interest and tax – 0.5 2.3 2.7
Tax – – (0.9) (0.8)
Share of profits after tax – 0.5 1.4 1.9
In relation to the Group’s interest in the joint venture and associates, the assets and liabilities are shown below:
Joint venture Associates
2015 
€m
2014
€m
2015
€m
2014 
€m
Current assets – 4.8 237.7 252.3
Current liabilities – (4.2) (222.6) (237 .6)
Net assets – 0.6 15.1 14.7
During the year the Group disposed of its investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S.A. This was a company incorporated in 
France in which the Group had joint control. Darty Orange S.A. has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is 
exposed. There are no significant capital commitments within Darty Orange S.A. Tax paid on the profits of Darty Orange S.A. is 
included in the tax charge of France. The Group owned 5,000 part social shares, this made up 50 per cent of the total shareholding.
The Group’s investment in associated undertakings relate to the Group’s holding in Menafinance S.A., a company incorporated in 
France that provides consumer credit services. The Group owns 370,716 ordinary shares of €16.00 each. Menafinance S.A. has a 
balance sheet date of 31 December. 90 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
14 Investments continued
On 1 March 2013, as part of the disposal of the Italian operations, the Group acquired a 15 per cent investment in DPS Group s.r.l 
(‘DPS’) through contributing all 20 stores and employees along with a cash contribution of €3.0m. Given the uncertainty over 
future returns, it was decided in 2013 to fully impair this investment.
As part of the disposal agreement to sell Comet Group plc, its subsidiaries and Triptych Insurance N.V., the Group made an 
investment of £50.0m in Hailey 2 LP. The investment entitled the Group to participate in the equity proceeds of any subsequent 
sale (or other exit) of Comet and/or Triptych by Hailey 2 LP. No return will be received by the Group unless the net exit proceeds 
received by Hailey 2 LP exceed £70 million. In the event that the net exit proceeds received by Hailey 2 LP exceed £70 million, the 
Group will receive a return of 10 per cent of the amount by which the net exit proceeds exceed £70 million, and a further return of 
20 per cent of any amount above £105 million. No fixed coupon will be payable on the Group’s investment and it has no maturity 
date. Outside of this, the Group has no other control rights relating to this investment. Given the uncertainty over future returns, 
the investment was fully impaired in a prior year.
15 Available-for-sale financial assets
€m
As at 1 May 2014 –
Purchase of shares in SEW-100.a.s 1.0
As at 30 April 2015 1.0
Unlisted securities: Level 3 financial instruments
Equity securities – SEW-100.a.s. 1.0
Total securities as at 30 April 2015 1.0
As part of the consideration for the sale of Datart to SEW-1001 a.s. (‘SEW’), a company based in the Czech Republic,  
the Group holds 603,000 shares in SEW representing 30 per cent of the issued share capital of SEW. The Group has a put option 
exercisable 18 months after the disposal (from 23 January 2016) on the purchasers of Datart to acquire these shares for a 
guaranteed price of €1.0m.
16 Inventories
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Finished goods for resale 456.8 474.2 477.9
€170.6m (2014: €169.0m) of inventories were not paid for as at 30 April 2015.
The Group’s estimate of the costs included within inventory has been refined during the year as described in note 11.
17 Trade and other receivables
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 131.1 128.7 113.2
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (6.7) (6.9) (4.6)
Trade receivables – net 124.4 121.8 108.6
Amounts receivable from joint venture and associates – 1.5 1.5
Other receivables 54.5 63.4 52.5
Prepayments and accrued income 39.4 34.8 34.6
Total trade and other receivables 218.3 221.5 197 .2
The book value of the Group’s trade and other receivables approximates to fair value due to the short-term nature of these receivables.
At 30 April 2015, trade receivables of €33.8m (2014: €18.9m, 2013: €19.4m) are past due but not impaired. These relate to a 
number of independent customers and franchisees for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these 
trade receivables is as follows:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Up to three months 30.9 17.1 12.7
Three to six months 2.7 1.4 1.8
Over six months 0.2 0.4 4.9
Total 33.8 18.9 19.4
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 91
17 Trade and other receivables continued
At 30 April 2015, trade receivables of €6.7m (2014: €6.9m, 2013: €4.6m) were provided for. The individually impaired receivables 
mainly relate to franchisees and wholesalers, which are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations. It was assessed that a 
portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing of these receivables is as follows:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Up to three months 1.0 1.4 0.7
Three to six months 0.9 0.4 0.3
Over six months 4.8 5.1 3.6
Total 6.7 6.9 4.6
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Pounds sterling 0.4 0.7 0.3
Euros 217 .6 207.4 187.1
Czech krown – 6.5 9.0
Other 0.3 6.9 0.8
Total trade and other receivables 218.3 221.5 197 .2
The Group’s trade receivables are stated after provision for impairment based on management’s assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the customers. An analysis of the movement in the provision is set out below:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
At 1 May (6.9) (4.6)
Provision from subsidiary acquired – (2.0)
Provisions for receivables impairment (3.1) (4.6)
Trade debtors written off in year 2.6 2.4
Unused amounts reversed 0.5 1.9
Disposal – Provision with Datart 0.2 –
As at 30 April (6.7) (6.9)
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and 
unrelated. The credit ratings of the Group’s debtors are disclosed in note 2.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
18 Other receivables
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Non-current
Other receivables 9.7 11.2 15.3
Total other receivables 9.7 11.2 15.3
The book value of the Group’s other receivables approximates to their fair value. Other receivables consist mainly of rental 
deposits.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Euros 9.6 11.0 13.0
Czech krown – 0.1 0.3
Other 0.1 0.1 2.0
Total other receivables 9.7 11.2 15.3
The other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 92 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
19 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 86.9 75.5 50.2
Short-term bank deposit – – 17 .8
Total 86.9 75.5 68.0
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts comprise the following:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 86.9 75.5 50.2
Bank overdrafts (0.2) (1.5) (0.3)
Short-term bank deposit – – 17 .8
Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 86.7 74.0 67.7
Treasury policy includes counterparty limits of up to €30 million in aggregate per core bank or permitted bank (minimum short 
term rating A1/P1).
20 Trade and other payables
2015 
€m
2014  
restated
€m
2013
restated
€m
Trade payables 318.6 341.1 339.4
Tax and social security payable 116.4 117 .1 107 .6
Other payables 186.4 195.6 182.2
Accruals 100.3 114.5 130.1
Deferred income 115.3 119.1 124.7
Total trade and other payables 837.0 887.4 884.0
Following the change in accounting policy to reclassify CVAE as taxation rather than operating expense, the Group has reclassified 
the associated creditor from trade and other payables to income tax liabilities (2014: €3.1m, 2013: €3.5m).
21 Borrowings
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts 11.1 1.5 0.3
Total current 11.1 1.5 0.3
Non-current
Bank loans, overdrafts and bonds
– repayable within one year 11.1 1.5 0.3
– repayable between one and five years 53.2 15.6 218.3
– repayable after five years 244.5 243.6 –
308.8 260.7 218.6
Less amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities (11.1) (1.5) (0.3)
Total non-current 297.7 259.2 218.3
Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in euros and have floating interest rates based upon EURIBOR. The effective interest 
rate on the revolving credit facility at the balance sheet date was 3.0 per cent (30 April 2014: 3.5 per cent).
In February 2014 the Group signed a new committed €225m five-year revolving credit facility, which expires in February 2019.  
This replaced the Group’s existing €455m facility which was due to expire in December 2015. In addition, in March 2015 the Group 
signed a new committed €17m three-year revolving credit facility, which expires in March 2018.
In February 2014 the Group issued €250m Senior Notes with a coupon of 5.875 per cent which mature on February 2021.  
This is a non-convertible bond.
The book value of the Group’s borrowings approximates to their fair value. Borrowings are denominated in euros.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 93
21 Borrowings continued
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 April, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met.
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Expiring after more than one year but not more than five years 185.0 205.0 235.0
Borrowings by class
2015 2014 2013
Current
€m
Non-current 
€m
Current 
€m
Non-current 
€m
Current
€m
Non-current 
€m
Bank overdrafts (0.2) – (1.5) – (0.3) –
Bank loans (10.9) (53.2) – (15.6) – (218.3)
Issued bonds (including transaction costs) – (244.5) – (243.6) – –
(11.1) (297 .7) (1.5) (259.2) (0.3) (218.3)
The difference between the carrying value of the issued bond and its €250m nominal value is the amount of prepaid fees which 
remain unamortised. The difference between the carrying value of the bank loans and the drawn down revolving credit facility is 
the amount of prepaid fees which remain unamortised.
Obligations under finance leases
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows
Less than one year (0.5) – –
Later than one year but not more than five (1.4) – –
More than five years – – –
(1.9) – –
Future finance charges on finance leases – – –
Present value of finance lease liabilities (1.9) – –
22 Other payables
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Accruals 1.0 1.1 0.7
Deferred income 219.3 224.7 239.7
Other payables 2.7 1.3 1.4
Total other payables 223.0 227.1 241.8
Deferred income mainly relates to the deferred revenue recognition relating to extended warranties and service contracts.
23 Derivative financial instruments
2015 2014 2013
Assets 
€m
Liabilities 
€m
Assets
€m
Liabilities 
€m
Assets 
€m
Liabilities 
€m
Current portion
Foreign currency swap – held for trading – – – – – –
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges – – – (0.3) – –
Derivative financial instruments – current – – – (0.3) – –
Total derivative financial instruments – – – (0.3) – –
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a  
non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or  
liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. 94 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
23 Derivative financial instruments continued
Hedges
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US dollars. The contracts typically cover 
periods from one to nine months. Where cash flow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are assessed to be effective, the 
movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is 
calculated by marking the contracts to market using prevailing forward exchange rates. At 30 April 2015 a net unrealised loss of 
€nil (30 April 2014: €0.3m) with a related deferred tax asset was included within equity in respect of these contracts. At 30 April 
2015 the value of future US dollar purchases hedged was $54.3m (2014: $31.8m). There was no ineffectiveness recognised in profit 
or loss arising from cash flow hedges.
24 Provisions
2015
€m
At 1 May 5.1
Additional amounts provided in the year 1.5
Amounts used or transferred during the year (3.1)
Unused amounts reversed during the year (0.9)
At 30 April 2.6
Analysed as:
2015
€m
2014 
€m
Current 1.8 3.7
Non-current 0.8 1.4
Total 2.6 5.1
Provisions relate to onerous property contracts. The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a 
shortfall and long-term idle properties. The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and 
service charges.
Non-current provisions are all due to be utilised within two years, with the exception of €0.1m, which is due to be utilised between 
two and three years.
25 Income tax liabilities
2015
€m
2014
€m
2013 
€m
Income tax 12.3 8.3 4.0
CVAE 3.6 3.1 3.5
Total tax liabilities 15.9 11.4 7.5
Following the change in accounting policy to reclassify CVAE as taxation rather than operating expense, the Group has reclassified 
the associated creditor from trade and other payables to Income tax liabilities (2014: €3.1m, 2013: €3.5m).
26 Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the 
country in which they originate.
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred 
income tax assets, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Following a change in UK tax legislation applicable from 1 July 2009, dividends received in the UK are no longer subject to UK 
taxation, provided certain conditions are met. Consequently no deferred income tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of 
overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 95
26 Deferred tax continued
The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by IAS 12) during the year are shown below. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
2015
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
€m
Other 
€m
Total 
€m
At 1 May 2014 (43.8) (5.8) (49.6)
Income statement credit/(charge) 5.0 (6.0) (1.0)
Charged to equity – (0.1) (0.1)
Reclassification (1.5) 0.7 (0.8)
As at 30 April 2015 (40.3) (11.2) (51.5)
Deferred income tax assets
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
€m
 
Tax losses 
€m
Pensions 
€m
Other 
€m
Total
€m
At 1 May 2014 – 0.1 15.9 3.2 19.2
Income statement credit/(charge) – 5.8 1.3 (2.9) 4.2
Business combinations – – – 0.2 0.2
Reclassification 1.5 – (0.2) (0.5) 0.8
Credited to equity – – 6.7 – 6.7
As at 30 April 2015 1.5 5.9 23.7 – 31.1
2014
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
€m
Other 
€m
Total 
€m
At 1 May 2013 (53.4) (6.7) (60.1)
Adjustment in respect of CVAE reclassification (1.8) – (1.8)
At 1 May 2013 restated (55.2) (6.7) (61.9)
Income statement credit/(charge) 10.0 0.8 10.8
Business combinations 1.4 – 1.4
Credited to equity – 0.1 0.1
As at 30 April 2014 (43.8) (5.8) (49.6)
Deferred income tax assets
Tax losses 
€m
Pensions 
€m
Other 
€m
Total 
€m
At 1 May 2013 3.2 15.8 0.7 19.7
Adjustment in respect of CV AE reclassification – – 0.8 0.8
At 1 May 2013 restated 3.2 15.8 1.5 20.5
Income statement credit/(charge) (3.1) 1.1 (0.7) (2.7)
Business combinations – 0.1 2.4 2.5
Tax (charged) to equity – (1.1) – (1.1)
As at 30 April 2014 0.1 15.9 3.2 19.2 96 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
26 Deferred tax continued
‘Other’ deferred tax liabilities mainly relate to merger goodwill (Belgium) and IT costs (France). 
The deferred income tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred income tax liabilities, and this gives rise to the 
following amounts disclosed in the balance sheet:
2015
 
€m
2014 
(restated) 
€m
2013 
(restated) 
€m
Deferred income tax assets as above 31.1 19.2 20.5
Offset against deferred income tax liabilities (31.1) (18.9) (19.1)
Deferred income tax assets – 0.3 1.4
Deferred income tax liabilities as above (51.5) (49.6) (61.9)
Reduced by deferred income tax assets 31.1 18.9 19.1
Deferred income tax liabilities (20.4) (30.7) (42.8)
The deferred income tax asset recoverable after more than one year is €28.0m (2014: €19.2m) and the deferred income tax liability 
due after more than one year is €51.5m (2014: €49.6m).
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit 
through the future taxable profits is probable. As at 30 April 2015, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to approximately 
€67m (2014: €43m) and UK losses of approximately €173m (2014: €204m) on which a deferred income tax asset of €5.9m (2014: 
€nil) has been recognised. The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of approximately €48m (2014: €54m) in respect 
of losses amounting to approximately €225m (2014: €247m) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. The tax 
deductibility of losses expire as follows:
2015
€m
2014 
€m
Within 5 years 12 12
Within 15 years 39 31
Not expiring 189 204
240 247
As referred to in Note 7 the prior years have been restated due to the reclassification of CVAE from operating profit to income tax 
and from trade payables to income tax liability. 
27 Share capital
2015 2014
Number 
m €m
Number 
m €m
Authorised, Issued and fully paid 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9
Kesa Employee Share Trust
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust (‘the Trust’), that owns 2,093,938 (2014: 2,093,938) 
ordinary shares of 30 cents in Darty plc at 30 April 2015. These were acquired at an average cost of €1.94 (2014: €1.94) and 
included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of €4.1m (2014: €4.1m). The shares are used to satisfy share awards 
and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies. Dividends receivable on these shares during the 
year have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust. Shares will be allocated by the Trust when 
relevant options under the scheme are exercised. The market value of the shares at 30 April 2015 was €2.1m (2014: €2.6m).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 97
28 Cash flow from operating activities
Notes
2015 
€m
2014  
(restated)
€m 
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 32.9 37.4
Adjustments for:
Finance costs 27.4 16.0
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates (1.4) (2.4)
Continuing Group operating profit 58.9 51.0
Discontinued operations operating loss (2.6) (21.0)
Depreciation and amortisation 51.4 54.7
Net impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 11.2 3.3
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs (6.9) (3.6)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments (1.4) (2.7)
Increase in inventories (6.4) (1.9)
Increase in trade and other receivables (8.4) (15.6)
Decrease in payables (35.1) (45.8)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 60.7 18.4
Net cash flow from operating activities can be summarised as follows:
Continuing operations 76.0 75.3
Discontinued operations 10 (15.3) (56.9)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 60.7 18.4
Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations, the CVAE reclassification from operating profit to 
taxation (note 7) and the legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs 
(note 5).
Net cash inflow from operating activities as reported at 30 April 2014 8.3
Impact of the change in CVAE charge accounting policy 11.5
Impact of the legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses reclassification from finance costs to operating costs (1.4)
Net cash inflow from operating activities restated 18.4
29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2015
€m
Cash flow 
€m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
€m
2014 
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 86.9 12.0 (0.6) 75.5
Overdrafts (0.2) 1.3 – (1.5)
86.7 13.3 (0.6) 74.0
Borrowings falling due within one year (10.9) (10.9) – –
Borrowings falling due after one year (297 .7) (37 .0) (1.5) (259.2)
Finance leases (1.9) (1.9) – –
(310.5) (49.8) (1.5) (259.2)
Total (223.8) (36.5) (2.1) (185.2) 98 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued
2014
€m
Cash flow 
€m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
€m
2013 
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 75.5 28.8 (3.5) 50.2
Overdrafts (1.5) (1.2) – (0.3)
Short-term deposits and investments – (17 .1) (0.7) 17 .8
74.0 10.5 (4.2) 67.7
Borrowings falling due within one year – – – –
Borrowings falling due after one year (259.2) (50.0) 9.1 (218.3)
(259.2) (50.0) 9.1 (218.3)
Total (185.2) (39.5) 4.9 (150.6)
30 Employees and directors
2015 
€m
2014 
restated 
€m
Staff costs (including Executive Directors)
Wages and salaries 419.1 420.8
Social security costs 162.7 162.1
Other pension costs 3.7 3.3
Total staff costs 585.5 586.2
Included within wages and salaries is €0.4m (2014: €0.4m) in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The prior year comparative figures have been restated to ensure comparability with the basis of preparation of the current year 
numbers. The wages and salaries amount disclosed in the prior year accounts has been changed from €431.8m (excluding Datart) 
to €420.8m. The social security costs figure has been changed from €151.1m (excluding Datart) to €162.1m.
Monthly average number of people employed including Executive Directors 
2015 2014 
restated
Stores 6,890 7 ,040
Distribution 4,658 4,760
Administration 1,278 1,432
Total 12,826 13,232
Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations.
2015 
€m
2014
€m
Directors
Salaries, fees and taxable benefits 1.9 1.7
Compensation for loss of office – –
Bonuses 0.4 1.0
Aggregate emoluments total 2.3 2.7
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 0.1
Aggregate gains arising from the exercise of share options – –
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – –
Total 2.4 2.8
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 99
30 Employees and directors continued
2015 
€m
2014
€m
Highest paid Director
Salaries, fees and taxable benefits 0.7 0.6
Compensation for loss of office – –
Bonuses 0.2 0.7
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 0.1
Aggregate gains arising from the exercise of share options – –
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – –
Total 1.0 1.4
The number of Directors who exercised share options during the year can be seen on page 48 of the Directors’ Remuneration report.
A breakdown of payments to Directors can be seen on page 46 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
2015 
€m
2014
€m
Key management compensation
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 4.0 4.4
Compensation for loss of office – –
Post employment benefits 0.3 0.3
Share-based payments – –
Total 4.3 4.7
Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Darty Executive Committee.
31 Share-based payments
Share-based payments
During the year covered by these financial statements, the Group has operated the following share award plan:
• 
Long Term Incentive Plan
Details of the significant share award plans are shown below.
(a) June 2011 grant of nil cost share awards
June 2011 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of 3-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award available in each year.
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2011
Share price at grant date £1.34
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 111
Number of shares in scheme 4,127,600
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 49%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 3.57%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.80%
Fair value of awards £1.16
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life. 100 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
31 Share-based payments continued
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2015 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2014 437 ,059
Expired during the year (437 ,059)
Outstanding at 30 April 2015 –
Exercisable at 30 April 2015 –
(b) June 2012 grant of nil cost share awards
June 2012 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of 3-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award available in each year.
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2012
Share price at grant date £0.49
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 95
Number of shares in scheme 9,011,400
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 46%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 1.94%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.00%
Fair value of awards £0.42
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2015 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2014 2,412,699
Outstanding at 30 April 2015 2,412,699
Exercisable at 30 April 2015 –
(c) June 2013 grant of nil cost share awards
June 2013 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of 3-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award available in each year.
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2013
Share price at grant date £0.74
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 21
Number of shares in scheme 3,547,168
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 54%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 2.51%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.00%
Fair value of awards £0.66
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 101
31 Share-based payments continued
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2015 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2014 3,547 ,168
Outstanding at 30 April 2015 3,547 ,168
Exercisable at 30 April 2015 –
(d) September 2014 grant of nil cost share awards
September 2014 LTIP grant – 3 year award
Executive Directors received annual awards of 3-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the awards available in each year.
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 15 September 2014
Share price at grant date £0.80
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 67
Number of shares in scheme 2,538,416
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 54%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 1.92%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 3.51%
Fair value of awards £0.72
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2015 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2014 –
Granted during year 2,538,416
Outstanding at 30 April 2015 2,538,416
Exercisable at 30 April 2015 –
September 2014 LTIP grant – 4 year award
Executive Directors received annual awards of 4-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the awards available in each year.
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 15 September 2014
Share price at grant date £0.80
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 67
Number of shares in scheme 2,538,416
Vesting period 4 years
Expected volatility 50%
Option life N/A
Expected life 4 years
Risk free rate 1.92%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 3.51%
Fair value of awards £0.70 102 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
31 Share-based payments continued
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past four years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2015 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2014 –
Granted during year 2,538,416
Outstanding at 30 April 2015 2,538,416
Exercisable at 30 April 2015 –
32 Retirement benefits
Summary of Group retirement benefits and funding arrangements
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France.
In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme (‘the Comet Pension Scheme’) with assets held in a separate 
trustee administered fund. The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and future service accrual was ceased on 30 
September 2007. Following the disposal of Comet on 3 February 2012, Darty plc became sponsoring employer and accordingly 
assumed all the liabilities associated with the Comet Pension Scheme. All member benefits, including any link to future salary 
increases, ceased from that date.
In the UK, the trustees must agree a funding plan with the sponsoring company such that any funding shortfall is expected to be 
met by additional contributions and investment performance. In order to assess the level of contributions required, triennial 
valuations are carried out with plan’s obligations measured using prudent assumptions (relative to those used to measure 
accounting liabilities).The March 2013 triennial valuation was agreed with the trustees in March 2014 resulting in fixed annual 
payments of £10.0m per annum aiming to make good the £73m deficit by May 2019. Company contributions to be paid in 2015/16 
total £10.0 million (2014/15: £10.0 million). The next triennial valuation is in March 2016.
The UK scheme provides benefits for members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits 
provided depends on the members’ length of service and salary at 3 February 2012. The trustees are required to act on behalf of 
the Scheme’s stakeholders in accordance with UK legislation and play a role in the long-term investment and funding strategy. In 
the UK scheme, pensions in payment are generally increased in line with inflation. The Group works closely with the trustees to 
manage the plan.
There is a risk to the Company that adverse experience (asset volatility, longevity or inflation) could lead to a requirement for the 
Company to make additional contributions to cover any deficit increase that arises. A description of Pension scheme liabilities risks 
and mitigation measures is set out in the Principal Risks section of the Annual report.
In France, post-retirement benefits are primarily provided by the state system though the Group has supplementary funded 
pension plans in place for certain senior executives. At 30 April 2015, these pension plans had a deficit of €7.3m. The Group has no 
further mortality risk post retirement. This scheme is no longer open to new entrants with existing liabilities being paid as they fall 
due. At 30 April 2015, there were 6 members remaining in the scheme with liabilities estimated at €7.3m. In addition, the Group is 
required to pay lump sum retirement indemnities to employees when they retire from service. The entitlement on retirement is 
secured through the purchase of an annuity from an insurance company under terms prescribed by legislation. No pre-funding is 
legally required, though at 30 April 2015 €16.9m of funding has been set aside for retirement indemnity plans set against estimated 
IAS19 liabilities of €74.8m, leading to a net deficit of €57.9m.
In 2014/15, liabilities in both UK and France have increased significantly as a result of falling bond yields and there is also a material 
exchange rate impact on UK liabilities.
Outside of the UK and France defined benefit obligations, the operating companies generally operate defined contribution pension 
schemes. Annual contributions to these schemes are summarised below:
2015 2014
UK
€m
France 
€m
Other 
€m
Group 
€m
UK
€m
France 
€m
Other 
€m
Group 
€m
Defined contribution schemes 0.2 0.2 2.6 3.0 0.3 – 2.5 2.8
Defined benefit Schemes – IAS19 Accounting Valuations
The Group’s defined benefit schemes in the UK and France have been valued by a qualified and independent actuary at 30 April 
2015 based on IAS19 (Revised). No significant new legislation has impacted the IAS valuation for the year ended 30 April 2015. As 
announced in 2011, an increased retirement age has been implemented under French legislation and is being phased in to 2018.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 103
32 Retirement benefits continued
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
2015 2014
UK
%
France
%
UK
%
France
%
Discount rate 3.5 0.25-1.50 4.5 1.50-3.00
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries N/A 2.25 N/A 2.5
Rate of pension increases 3.1 N/A 3.3 N/A
Price inflation – 1.75 – 2.0
-RPI 3.2 – 3.4 –
-CPI 2.2 – 2.4 –
Discount rate
In the UK, the discount rate is based on the yield on high quality AA and Corporate rated bonds, as classified by Merrill Lynch.  
A yield curve is fitted to the data using least squares optimisation techniques. The yield curve is extrapolated beyond 30 years in 
line with a gilt yield curve.
In France, the Discount rate is based on high quality (AA) Corporate bonds in the Eurozone.
Price inflation
For the UK scheme, the assumption for future RPI price inflation is taken from published Bank of England estimates for future price 
inflation, as implied by the index-linked and fixed interest gilt markets, as at the accounting date and reflects the duration of the 
pension liabilities.
In the long term, inflation measured by the Consumer Prices index is expected to be lower than the RPI because of differences in 
how the indices are calculated. The CPI assumption takes the assumption for Retail Prices Index inflation and deducts 1.0 per cent 
(2014: 1.0 per cent), reflecting long term structural differences between the inflation measures.
For the France schemes, the inflation rate of 1.75 per cent (2014: 2.0 per cent) in the Eurozone is based on the long term forecasts 
as set out by the European Central Bank in its Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) and the published forecasts from 
‘Consensus Economics’.
For the UK scheme, the group has used S1PA tables, weighted by 97 per cent for males and 95 per cent for females, with 
improvements in line with the CMI_2013 projections and a long term rate of 1.25 per cent pa for males and females. For the France 
schemes, the mortality tables used by the Group are TGHF 2005 for pensioners and INSEE 2009/11 H/F for non-pensioners.
The main mortality outcomes for the UK scheme are summarised below:
2015 
Years
2014 
Years
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 60 26.5 26.3
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 60 29.2 29.1
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 40 28.5 28.4
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 40 31.3 31.2
Duration of the schemes
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Comet Pension Scheme is approximately 21 years.
In France, the main scheme is the Darty Retirement Indemnity Plan, which had 9,811 active members at the year-end (2014: 10,004). 
This Plan has an expected duration of 16 years. The weighted average of the five France schemes, based on the values of their 
defined benefit obligations is 16 years.
Expected Company contributions
Company contributions to the Comet Scheme will be £10.0 million in the year to 30 April 2016. In France, Company contributions 
are expected to total €nil next year.
Membership data
At 31 March 2015, the Comet Pension Scheme had 3,535 deferred pensioners with an average age of 47 and a deferred pension of 
£11,912,000 per annum. A total of 1,652 pensioner members had an average age of 65 and an annual pension of £6,657,000. 
Approximately one third of the Scheme’s liabilities are in respect of current pensions in payment, with the other two thirds in 
respect of non-pensioners.
At 30 April 2015, in France, active members of the main Darty Retirement Indemnity Plan totalled 9,811, with an average age of 39. 
There were 44 members in other France schemes with an average age of 39. 104 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
32 Retirement benefits continued
Net liability
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Present value of defined benefit obligations 625.0 82.1 707.1 478.2 62.5 540.7
Fair value of plan assets (586.8) (16.9) (603.7) (418.1) (18.0) (436.1)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 38.2 65.2 103.4 60.1 44.5 104.6
Asset holdings
In the UK, €0.6m (2014: €0.9m) of the assets held were quoted assets. In France, €nil (2014: €nil) of the assets held were quoted 
assets.
Quoted assets are assets which have a quoted market price in an active market.
The fair value of plan assets at the end of the year for the defined benefit plans are as follows:
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Equities and equity derivatives 135.1 1.5 112.9 1.9
Gilts 162.3 – 53.7 –
Bonds 47.7 13.7 40.5 14.0
Cash 4.4 – 4.6 –
Dynamic asset allocation 180.4 – 156.2 –
Real estate – 1.1 – 1.1
Swaps 20.9 – 24.3 –
Alternatives 34.8 – 25.9 –
Other 1.2 0.6 – 1.0
Total 586.8 16.9 418.1 18.0
Asset liability matching strategy
For the UK scheme, the hedging strategy is reviewed and re-balanced regularly. The current policy is to hedge 85 per cent of 
interest rate risk and 85 per cent of inflation risk. There are no swaps in the assets of the France schemes.
Self investment
The Plan assets of the UK and France schemes do not contain any direct investments in Ordinary Shares or Bonds issued by Darty plc.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Current service cost – 3.4 3.4 – 3.4 3.4
Interest cost 2.6 1.2 3.8 1.4 1.2 2.6
Curtailment gains – (1.5) (1.5) – (2.3) (2.3)
Total included in the income statement 2.6 3.1 5.7 1.4 2.3 3.7
Of the total charge, including defined contribution schemes, €nil (2014: €nil), €4.3m (2014: €4.2m), €1.8m (2014: €1.7m) and €0.3m 
(2014: €0.3m) were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses, selling expenses and distribution costs respectively.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 105
32 Retirement benefits continued
Analysis of the movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year.
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Defined benefit obligation at start of year 478.2 62.5 540.7 449.5 64.1 513.6
Current service cost – 3.4 3.4 – 3.4 3.4
Interest cost 22.0 1.7 23.7 18.8 1.7 20.5
Benefits paid (12.9) (2.6) (15.5) (10.2) (1.5) (11.7)
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 75.2 18.2 93.4 5.6 (2.9) 2.7
Integration of Mistergooddeal.com scheme – 0.4 0.4 – – –
Curtailment gains – (1.5) (1.5) – (2.3) (2.3)
Currency translation movement 62.5 – 62.5 14.5 – 14.5
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 625.0 82.1 707.1 478.2 62.5 540.7
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
impacting the defined benefit obligation arose from:
Experience (gains)/ losses on benefit obligation (6.7) (2.1) (8.8) 10.6 (3.1) 7.5
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes in financial assumptions 81.9 13.9 95.8 (10.5) 0.1 (10.4)
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes in demographic assumptions – 6.4 6.4 5.5 0.1 5.6
75.2 18.2 93.4 5.6 (2.9) 2.7
Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year.
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Fair value of plan assets at start of year 418.1 18.0 436.1 409.1 19.7 428.8
Interest credit 19.4 0.5 19.9 17.4 0.6 18.0
Contributions by employer 12.9 – 12.9 11.9 0.9 12.8
Contributions by employees – – – – – –
Benefits paid (12.9) (1.7) (14.6) (10.2) (3.4) (13.6)
The return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 93.1 0.1 93.2 (22.8) 0.2 (22.6)
Currency translation movement 56.2 – 56.2 12.7 – 12.7
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 586.8 16.9 603.7 418.1 18.0 436.1
Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year.
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Liability at start of year 60.1 44.5 104.6 40.4 44.4 84.8
Total expense as above 2.6 3.1 5.7 1.4 2.3 3.7
Contributions paid (12.9) – (12.9) (11.9) – (11.9)
Benefits paid – (0.9) (0.9) – 0.9 0.9
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (17 .9) 18.1 0.2 28.4 (3.1) 25.3
Integration of Mistergooddeal.com scheme – 0.4 0.4 – – –
Curtailment gains – – – – – –
Currency translation movement 6.3 – 6.3 1.8 – 1.8
Liability at end of year 38.2 65.2 103.4 60.1 44.5 104.6
Cumulative remeasurements recognised in equity.
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
At beginning of year 45.3 14.4 59.7 15.7 17 .5 33.2
Remeasurements recognised in the year (17 .9) 18.1 0.2 28.4 (3.1) 25.3
Currency translation movement 5.0 – 5.0 1.2 – 1.2
At end of year 32.4 32.5 64.9 45.3 14.4 59.7 106 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
32 Retirement benefits continued
The actual returns on plan assets were:
2015 2014
UK 
€m
France
€m
Group 
€m
UK 
€m
France 
€m
Group
€m
Actual returns on plan assets 110.0 0.6 110.6 (5.5) – (5.5)
History of experience gains and losses
2015 2014 2013 
(restated)
Continuing Group
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Total 
€m
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Total  
€m
Total  
€m
Experience gains/(losses) arising on plan assets:
Amount 93.1 0.1 93.2 (22.8) 0.1 (22.7) 45.8
Experience (gains)/losses arising on defined benefit obligation:
Amount (17 .9) 18.1 0.2 10.6 (2.1) 8.5 (2.1)
Present value of plan liabilities 625.0 82.1 707.1 478.2 62.5 540.7 513.6
Fair value of plan assets 586.8 16.9 603.7 418.1 18.0 436.1 428.8
Unrecognised past service costs – – – – – – –
Deficit (38.2) (65.2) (103.4) (60.1) (44.5) (104.6) (84.8)
Sensitivity of defined benefit obligation and income statement charge to key assumptions.
Impact on defined  
benefit obligation
Impact on  
income statement
Sensitivity
2015 
€m
2014
€m
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate 69.8 52.1 (2.1) (1.7)
An increase of 0.5 per cent in price inflation 53.2 39.8 (2.3) (1.9)
An increase of one year in longevity 17.3 13.1 (0.6) (0.6)
The sensitivity analyses above have been prepared based on reasonable assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting year 
and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding all other 
assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability 
recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis 
did not change compared with the previous year.
33 Operating lease commitments
The Group has operating lease commitments for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as 
motor vehicles. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2015
€m
2014
restated 
€m 
Future aggregate minimum lease payments* under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Within one year 89.1 93.7
Later than one year and less than five years 159.2 160.9
After five years 21.1 25.1
Total 269.4 279.7
The Group sub-lets some unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have 
various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases 5.2 1.1
* Excluding annual indexation increases
Restated following the sale of Datart, now classified as discontinued operations.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 107
34 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities
Capital commitments
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for:
– property, plant and equipment 4.7 3.5
– intangible assets 0.3 0.2
Total 5.0 3.7
Contingent liabilities
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews 
(‘Litigation’). The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated to determine whether it is more likely than not 
that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or 
sufficient. The outcome of any Litigation is difficult to predict, and significant management judgement is exercised when 
determining the value and risk of a contingent liability. The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the Litigation to which 
it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
The Company, in line with standard practice, has given some guarantees and indemnities most notably in relation to disposals of 
subsidiary undertakings and legacy tax matters. The liabilities are, in the main, capped based on agreed terms and valuations and 
unwind over time.
There are a number of ongoing indirect and corporation tax audits and competition authority reviews underway around the Group 
and in respect of previously disposed businesses where we have provided guarantees and indemnities. Other than those already 
disclosed there are investigations which give rise to possible risks though the overall impact to the Group is not deemed material.
35 Business combinations
On 2 February 2015, the Group through it’s subsidiary BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. (The Netherlands) acquired the trade and assets 
of 18 separate store (BV) entities from HiM Retail BV, an electrical retailer trading across the central and southern Netherlands.
As a result of the acquisition the Group is expected to increase its presence in these markets and also expects to reduce costs 
through economies of scale.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for HiM Retail BV, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at 
the acquisition date.
Aggregate consideration to 30 April 2015 €m
Cash 7.9
Working capital adjustments arising at acquisition date 2.8
Total aggregate consideration to 30 April 2015 10.7
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Total fair  
 value acquired  
as reported at  
2 February 2015
€m
Fair value 
adjustments  
for the year 
€m
Total fair  
value acquired  
as at  
30 April 2015 
€m
Property, plant and equipment (note 13) 0.8 – 0.8
Other intangible assets (note 12) 0.8 – 0.8
Inventories 2.8 (0.2) 2.6
T otal identifiable net assets 4.4 (0.2) 4.2
Goodwill 6.3 0.2 6.5
Total 10.7 – 10.7
The goodwill of €6.5m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the acquired customer base and economies of scale expected 
from continuing the operations of the Group and HiM Retail B.V. The goodwill amortisation, which will be booked locally in the 
Netherlands, is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 1 March 2015 contributed by the acquired 
stores was €8.0m, the acquired stores also contributed a loss of €0.3m over the same period.
Had the acquired stores been consolidated from 1 May 2014, the consolidated statement of income would show pro-forma revenue 
of €3,544.1m and retail profit of €77.7m. 108 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
35 Business combinations continued
Acquisition related costs of €1.0m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year 
ended 30 April 2015.
Business combinations in the prior year
On 31 March 2014, the Group through its subsidiary Etablissemants Darty et Fils (France) acquired 100 per cent of the share capital 
of Mistergooddeal.com, one of France’s leading online electrical retailers.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Revised ‘Business Combinations’, goodwill on the acquisition of Mistergooddeal.com, provisionally 
determined in the 30 April 2014 Annual report, has been adjusted. The adjustments were made to account for amendments to the 
fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in March 2014.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Mistergooddeal.com, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed at the acquisition date.
Aggregate consideration to 30 April 2015 €m
Cash 2.0
Working capital adjustments arising at acquisition date (0.1)
Total aggregate consideration to 30 April 2015 1.9
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Total fair value 
acquired as 
reported at 
30 April 2014 
€m
Fair value 
adjustments 
for the year 
€m
Total fair value 
acquired 
restated as at 
30 April 2015 
€m
Cash and cash equivalents 5.4 – 5.4
Property, plant and equipment (note 13) 1.3 (1.3) –
Software (included in intangibles) (note 12) 0.7 (0.7) –
Inventories 9.5 – 9.5
Trade and other receivables 5.9 – 5.9
Deferred tax 3.9 0.2 4.1
Trade and other payables (24.7) 1.5 (23.2)
Total identifiable net assets 2.0 (0.3) 1.7
Goodwill – 0.2 0.2
Total 2.0 (0.1) 1.9
The carrying value of Mistergooddeal.com’s goodwill is impaired and an exceptional pre-tax charge of €0.2m has been recognised.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 109
36 Related party transactions
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below.
Joint ventures and associates
2015
€m
2014
€m
Dividends received 1.0 11.0
Value of products sold by the Group where an associate has provided credit facilities 178.9 173.9
Commission received from joint ventures 1.4 2.4
Amounts recoverable from joint ventures – –
Amounts recoverable from associates – 1.5
Amounts payable to joint ventures – –
Amounts payable to associates – –
The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales.
Other related parties
2015
€m
2014
€m
Rent payments 1.8 1.8
Other payments for services 0.6 1.3
Outstanding balances at year end – –
All transactions are at arm’s length and balances are unsecured.
37 Principal subsidiaries
Company Country of incorporation
Percentage owned  
and voting rights
Description of  
share classes owned Main activity
Etablissements Darty et Fils S.A.S. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing
New Vanden Borre S.A. Belgium 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. The Netherlands 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
Mistergooddeal.com France 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A 
full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures has been annexed to the Company’s latest annual return.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation. 110 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Report on the Company financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Darty plc’s Company financial statements  
(the ‘financial statements’):
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 30 April 2015;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
Darty plc’s financial statements comprise:
• 
the Company balance sheet as at 30 April 2015; 
• 
the Company statement of total recognised gains and losses 
for the year then ended; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in 
the Annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and 
the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) 
(‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual report is:
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• 
otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Darty plc
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• 
we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• 
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 52, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in 
writing. Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 111
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and 
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial 
statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We 
obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements 
of Darty plc for the year ended 30 April 2015.
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
17 June 2015 112 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Note
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 2 – –
Investments 3 166.9 166.9
Total fixed assets 166.9 166.9
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 4 113.6 139.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (4.5) (4.8)
Net current assets 109.1 134.4
Total assets less current liabilities 276.0 301.3
Net assets excluding retirement benefit liabilities 276.0 301.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Retirement benefits 6 (38.2) (60.1)
Net assets including retirement benefit liabilities 237.8 241.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 158.9 158.9
Other reserves 0.6 0.6
Profit and loss account 8 78.3 81.7
Total shareholders’ funds 9 237.8 241.2
Darty plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006
Loss attributable to the Parent Company is €4.0m (2014: profit of €67.2m).
The notes on pages 113 to 118 form part of these financial statements
The financial statements on pages 112 to 118 were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by
Régis Schultz  Dominic Platt 
Director  Director
Company registration number: 4232413
Company statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 30 April 2015
Note
2015
 €m
2014 
€m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year 8 (4.0) 67.2
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8 7.8 0.6
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension scheme 6 11.0 (30.9)
Total recognised gains relating to the year 14.8 36.9
Company balance sheet
as at 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 113
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial information set out on pages 112 to 118 comprises the financial statements of Darty plc for the year ended  
30 April 2015 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
The financial statements of the Company are prepared on a going concern basis under United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) using the historical cost convention and are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom. Principal accounting policies have been applied consistently 
throughout the year.
Cash flow statement and related party disclosures
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow 
statement as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Darty plc and is included in the consolidated Financial Statements of 
Darty plc, which are publicly available. The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party 
transactions with entities that are part of the Darty plc Group.
Investments
In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost adjusted for capital contributions relating 
to share-based payments.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. 
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is charged to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value over the 
estimated useful life of the asset to the Company.
Tangible fixed assets comprise fixtures, fittings and equipment. These are depreciated over their estimated useful economic life of 
five years on a straight-line basis.
Employee share schemes
The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the employee’s 
related performance. Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally 
entitled to the shares. The cost of awards is measured as the fair value of the award at grant date less employee contributions.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Retirement benefits
A defined contribution plan is a retirement benefit under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The 
Company has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all 
employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a retirement benefit 
that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will 
receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
In accordance with FRS17, for defined benefit plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs 
which have not yet vested. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit 
credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows 
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and 
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related retirement benefit liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately 
in the profit and loss reserve.
For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a 
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been 
paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
Taxation
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years.
Notes to the Company financial statements
for the year ended 30 April 2015 114 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
1 Accounting policies continued
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the 
balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future. An 
asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities recognised have not been discounted. Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to the 
UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
Auditors remuneration
During the period the Company obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors at costs as detailed below:
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Audit fees:
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Company’s financial statements 0.4 0.4
Fees for other services:
Other non-audit services – 0.3
0.4 0.7
2 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
 €m
Cost 
At 1 May 2014 0.3
Additions –
At 30 April 2015 0.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 May 2014 0.3
Charge for period –
At 30 April 2015 0.3
Net book value
At 30 April 2015 –
At 30 April 2014 –
3 Investments
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
€m
Cost and net book value
At 30 April 2014 166.9
At 30 April 2015 166.9
The investment comprises 100.0 per cent of the shares in Kesa Holdings Limited.
The Directors believe the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
4 Debtors due within one year
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 113.4 138.7
Prepayments 0.2 0.5
Total debtors due within one year 113.6 139.2
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Other creditors 0.1 0.1
Accruals 4.4 4.7
Total creditors due within one year 4.5 4.8
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 115
6 Retirement benefits 
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Retirement benefits liability 38.2 60.1
The Company operates a funded defined benefit pension scheme (‘The Comet Pension Scheme’) with assets held in a separate 
trustee administered fund. The scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and future service accrual was ceased on 30 
September 2007, with affected employees eligible to become members of the Group defined contribution scheme.. Following the 
disposal of Comet, the Company assumed the liabilities associated with the UK Scheme.Comet ceased to be the participating 
employer from the date of completion, 3 February 2012, with all member benefits, including any link to future salary increases, 
ceasing from that date. 
The UK scheme is valued by a qualified actuary every three years and a deficit recovery plan confirmed with the Trustees based on 
an agreed schedule of contributions.The 31 March 2013 triennial valuation was agreed with the Trustees in March 2014 resulting in 
fixed annual payments of £10.0m aiming to make good the £73m deficit by May 2019.Company contributions to be paid in 2015/16 
total £10.0m (2014/15: £10.0m). The next triennial valuation is due as at 31 March 2016.
The UK scheme provides benefits for members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits 
provided depends on members’ length of pensionable service and salary up to 3 February 2012. The trustees are required to act on 
behalf of the Scheme’s stakeholders in accordance with UK legislation and are responsible for the long-term investment and 
funding strategy. In the UK scheme, pensions in payment are generally increased in line with inflation.
There is a risk to the Company that adverse experience (e.g. asset volatility, longevity experience) could lead to a requirement for 
the Company to make additional contributions to recover any deficit that arises.
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 30 April 2015 was 5.9 per cent pa (year ending 30 April 2014: 
4.8 per cent pa). This rate is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset 
classes that the plan was invested in at 30 April 2014, less investment expenses.
The Scheme’s investment strategy hedges 85 per cent of interest rate risk and 85 per cent of inflation risk using both UK 
government bonds and a portfolio of swaps. This hedging strategy is reviewed and rebalanced regularly in light of any new 
actuarial information that is available.
A qualified independent actuary has updated the actuarial valuations of the Comet Pension Scheme as at 30 April 2015 under 
FRS17. The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
2015 
%
2014 
%
Discount rate 3.5 4.4
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries N/A N/A
Rate of pension increase (5 per cent LPI) 3.1 3.3
Price inflation
– RPI 3.2 3.4
– CPI 2.2 2.4
Expected return on assets 4.7 5.9
The expected return on assets for 2015/16 are set out below:
% pa % pa
Gilts 2.3 3.2
Corporate bonds 3.5 4.4
Dynamic asset allocation 5.6 6.5
Equity Option 7.0 7.3
Cash 1.0 1.3
Swaps 2.5 3.4
Alternatives 6.3 7.3
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Present value of defined benefit obligation 625.0 478.2
Fair value of plan assets (586.8) (418.1)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 38.2 60.1 116 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
6 Retirement benefits continued
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
2015 
%
2014 
%
Equities 4 0
Gilts 28 13
Corporate Bonds 8 10
Equity derivatives 19 27
Cash 1 1
Dynamic asset allocation 31 37
Swaps 3 6
Alternatives 6 6
The scheme does not invest in property or in the Company’s own securities.
The amounts recognised in operating profit are as follows:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Employer’s part of current service cost – –
Total operating charge – –
The following amounts are included in finance income:
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Expected return on scheme assets (27 .8) (19.9)
Interest cost 23.4 18.8
Total charge/(credit) to finance income (4.4) (1.1)
Reconciliation of present value of scheme liabilities
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Opening present value of scheme liabilities 478.2 449.5
Employer’s part of current service cost – –
Interest cost 22.0 18.8
Contributions by employees – –
Benefits paid (12.9) (10.2)
Actuarial loss recognised in the STRGL 75.2 5.6
Comprising: Experience on benefit obligation (6.7) 10.6
Changes in financial assumptions 81.9 (10.5)
Changes in demographic assumptions – 5.5
Currency translation movement 62.5 14.5
Closing present value of scheme liabilities 625.0 478.2
Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 418.1 409.1
Expected return on scheme assets 26.1 19.9
Contributions by employer 12.9 11.9
Contributions by employees – –
Benefits paid (12.9) (10.2)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the STRGL 86.2 (25.3)
Currency translation movement 56.4 12.7
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 586.8 418.1
The actual return on the scheme’s assets over the year was (€1.7m).
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 117
6 Retirement benefits continued
Movements in the deficit during the year
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
Opening FRS 17 (surplus)/deficit 60.1 40.4
Employer’s part of current service cost – –
Other finance costs (4.1) (1.1)
Contributions by the employer (12.9) (11.9)
Actuarial (gain)/loss recognised in the STRGL (11.0) 30.9
Currency translation movement 6.1 1.8
Closing FRS 17 (surplus)/deficit 38.2 60.1
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (‘STRGL’) for 2014/15 is a gain 
of €11.0m (2013/14: loss of €30.9m). 
Amounts to be shown for the previous four periods
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
2013
 €m
2012 
€m
2011 
€m
Present value of funded obligations 625.0 478.2 449.5 396.9 331.5
Fair value of plan assets 586.8 418.1 409.1 356.9 285.6
(Surplus)/deficit 38.2 60.1 40.4 40.0 45.9
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme assets:
Amount 86.2 (25.3) 42.8 (23.8) 13.9
Percentage of scheme assets 15% (6%) 10% (7%) 5%
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities:
Amount 6.7 (10.6) – – (10.5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 1% (2%) – – (3%)
7 Share capital
2015 2014
Number 
m €m
Number 
m €m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 1,000 300.0 1,000 300.0
Issued and fully paid 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9
Kesa Employee Share Trust
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust (‘the Trust’), that owns 2,093,938 (2014: 2,093,938) 
ordinary shares of 30 cents in Darty plc at 30 April 2015. These were acquired at an average cost of €1.94 (2014: €1.94) and 
included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of €4.1m (2014:€4.1m). The shares are used to satisfy share  
option exercises and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies. Dividends receivable on these 
shares during the year have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust. Shares will be allocated 
by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are exercised. The market value of the shares at 30 April 2015 was €2.1m 
(2014: €2.6m). 118 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
8 Reserves
Profit and 
loss account 
€m
At 1 May 2014 81.7
Loss for the year (4.0)
Dividends (18.4)
Investments in ESOP shares 0.2
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 7.8
Actuarial gain on pension scheme recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 11.0
At 30 April 2015 78.3
All retained profits are distributable.
Profit and 
loss account 
€m
At 1 May 2013 62.7
Profit for the year 67.2
Dividends (18.0)
Investments in ESOP shares 0.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6
Actuarial loss on pension scheme recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (30.9)
At 30 April 2014 81.7
9 Statement of changes in shareholders’ funds
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
(Loss)/profit attributable to shareholders (4.0) 67.2
Dividends (18.4) (18.0)
Investments in ESOP shares 0.2 0.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 7.8 0.6
Actuarial profit/(loss) on pension scheme recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses 11.0 (30.9)
Opening shareholders’ funds 241.2 222.2
Closing shareholders’ funds 237.8 241.2
10 Employees
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Staff costs for the year
Wages and salaries 4.4 4.2
Social security costs 0.5 0.4
Other pension costs 0.2 0.1
Total staff costs 5.1 4.7
Average monthly number of administration staff employed during the period, including Directors, was 20 (2014: 21).
For details of remuneration of Directors employed by the Company, refer to the Report on Directors’ remuneration and related 
matters on pages 40 to 51.
11 Dividends
2015 
€m
2014
 €m
Final paid 2014: 2.625 cents (2013: 2.625 cents) per share 14.0 13.4
Interim paid 2015: 0.875 cents (2014: 0.875 cents) per share 4.4 4.6
18.4 18.0
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 1 April 2015. In addition the Board will 
also recommend, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 2.625 cents, payable on 13 
November 2015 in relation to the year ending 30 April 2015.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 23 October 2015.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
for the year ended 30 April 2015 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 119
Registrar and transfer office
All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed  
to the Company’s Registrar, as follows:
By Mail:  Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
 The Pavilions, 
 Bridgwater Road, 
 Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
By phone:  +44 (0)370 707 1102
By e-mail:  web.queries@computershare.co.uk 
Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Darty plc.
Investor Centre
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website 
provided by our Registrars. This service allows you to view your 
share portfolio and see the latest market prices of your shares, 
check your dividend payment and tax information, change your 
address, update payment instructions and receive your 
shareholder communications online. To take advantage of this 
service, please log in at www.investorcentre.co.uk and enter 
your Shareholder Reference Number and Company Code. The 
information can be found on your last dividend voucher or 
share certificate. 
Dividend mandates
If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank  
account through the BACSTEL -IP (Bankers’ Automated  
Clearing Services) system, you should contact our  
Registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form or apply online  
at www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Electronic shareholder communications
We have entered into an arrangement with our Registrars 
whereby shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder 
communications from the Company electronically, rather than 
in paper format via the postal system.
We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our 
electronic communications service through eTree campaign  
run by our Registrars in conjunction with The Woodland Trust. 
When you register for electronic communications, a tree will  
be planted on your behalf with the Woodland Trust’s  
‘Tree For All’ scheme in a UK area selected for reforestation. 
The service enables you to save paper, contributing to a 
greener countryside and reducing harmful carbon dioxide 
emissions which impact climate change. 
In order to receive shareholder communications such as  
notices of shareholder meetings and annual report and 
accounts electronically rather than by post, you should  
register your details via the Investor Centre/Shareholder 
information and services page of Darty plc website  
www.dartygroup.com. You can also register for electronic 
communications via www.etreeuk.com/darty.
Share dealing service
We offer an internet and telephone share dealing service for 
shareholders (in certain jurisdictions) in conjunction with 
Computershare, our registrars.
Internet dealing:
• 
The fee for this service will be 1 per cent of the value of each 
sale or purchase, subject to a minimum charge of £30.00. 
Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
• 
Up to 90-day limit orders available on shares.
• 
Service is available to place orders out of market hours.
• 
Log onto www.computershare.com/dealing/uk.
Telephone dealing:
• 
The fee for this service will be 1 per cent of the value of the 
transaction plus £35. Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable 
on purchases.
• 
The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you 
whilst you are still on the telephone.
• 
Service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to 
Friday excluding bank holidays.
• 
Call +44 (0)370 703 0084.
No forms will need to be completed in advance and the 
settlement period is ten business days after your trade has 
been dealt in the market, for both internet and telephone share 
dealing. Further information and copies of the terms and 
conditions of both these services can be obtained by calling 
+44 (0)370 703 0084
Gifting shares to your family or to charity
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, 
please ask the Registrars for a Gift Transfer Form. If you only 
have a small number of shares whose value makes it 
uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating 
them to ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered 
charity number 1052686). The relevant share transfer form 
may be obtained from the Registrars. Further information 
about the scheme is available from the ShareGift Internet Site 
www.ShareGift.org.
Shareholder information 120 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
2015 
€m
2014 
€m
2013
 €m
2012 
€m
2011 
€m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,512.1 3,404.4 3,375.4 3,465.0 3,547 .9
Retail profit 74.9 85.5 80.9 111.0 148.7
Adjusted profit before tax 51.3 72.1 71.4 103.5 133.6
Profit before tax 32.9 37.4 18.9 81.9 119.4
Taxation (17 .8) (26.6) (15.0) (22.4) (34.2)
Profit from continuing operations 15.1 10.8 3.9 59.5 85.2
Discontinued operations (1.3) (17 .4) (111.8) (373.4) (54.5)
Profit/(loss) for the year 13.8 (6.6) (107 .9) (313.9) 30.7
Adjusted EPS (cents) 5.8 6.5 7.9 14.8 20.1
Basic EPS (cents) 2.7 (0.6) (19.8) (59.2) 6.0
Dividend (cents) 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 7.0
Summary balance sheet
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 389.8 408.2 431.8 509.0 690.4
Defined benefit pension liability (103.4) (104.6) (84.8) (69.6) (71.9)
Net (debt)/funds (223.8) (185.2) (150.6) (126.5) 121.0
Other net liabilities (386.5) (435.3) (460.2) (429.9) (523.4)
Net (liabilities)/assets (323.9) (316.9) (263.8) (117 .0) 216.1
Notes
The results of prior years have been restated following the sale or disposal of Comet, Datart and the Turkish, Spanish and Italian 
operations, now classified as discontinued operations.
Group five-year summary  Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Darty plc 
Registered address
22-24 Ely Place
London EC1N 6TE
+44 (0)20 7269 1400
Registered in England
Company number: 04232413
For information visit
www.dartygroup.com
9.8mm spine Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
9.8mm spine
