 MAKING PLACES 
Annual Report 2015
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Earnings/(loss) and EPRA earnings/(loss) per share
Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)
-20
-10
10 12* 13 15 14
10
0
20
30
-20
-10
10
0
20
30
EPRA earnings/(loss) per share (pence)
1.7
(11.8)
(10.3)
(8.2)
2.0
10.5
14.9
7.8
26.8
23.9
Net assets and EPRA net assets per share
Net assets per share (pence)
0
50
10 12* 13 15 14
200
150
100
250
300
0
50
200
150
100
250
300
EPRA net assets per share (pence)
272
276
256
262
251
260
262
269
276**
276**
Development and trading gains
0
30
20
10
10 12* 13 15 14
40
0
30
20
10
40
50 50
Development and trading gains (£’million)
5.0
8.6
28.1
27.0
45.7
IN THIS REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Strategic Report
01 Who we are
02 Our year at a glance
04 How we make a place
12 Chairman’s Statement
14 Market overview
16 Chief Executive’s Statement
18 Our business model
20 Our strategic priorities for the full year 2015
22 Our strategy in action
32 Key performance indicators
34 Risk Review
38 Corporate and Social Responsibility 
42 Portfolio Review
60 Financial Review
Corporate governance 
69 Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance 
70 Board of Directors
72 Corporate Governance
80 Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman
81 Remuneration Report
98 Directors’ Report
Financial statements
103 Group Independent Auditors’ Report
108 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
109 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
1 10 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
111 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
1 12 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
157 Company Independent Auditors’ Report
158 Company Balance Sheet 
159 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
IBC Financial Calendar and Advisors
Cover image
The Movement, Greenwich. 
See page 3 for more details. £45.7 m
Development and trading gains
The Group has recorded 
record-level development and 
trading gains across its direct and 
indirect portfolio during the year.
£346.4m
Net assets
Net assets grew by 8.1% in 
the year after the payment of a 
special dividend of £10.0 million.
13.9p
Dividend per share
This includes an increased final 
dividend of 3.5 pence per share, 
a special dividend of 8.0 pence 
per share and an interim dividend 
of 2.4 pence.
36.3%
Gearing
Gearing excluding our share 
of joint ventures has reduced 
during the year as a result 
of asset realisations.
*14 month period ** After payment of £10.0 million special dividend WHO WE ARE 
Development Securities is a property company with a 
diversified portfolio of projects that are predominantly focussed 
on regeneration in Greater London and the South East.
Our principal objective is to generate excellent returns 
by acquiring land and buildings where we can add value 
through our expertise in planning, development, trading and 
regeneration. In so doing, we facilitate a process of change 
that creates value for all of our stakeholders, from residents 
to retailers, from communities to councils, from shareholders 
to partners. 
This year , the successful execution of our strategic priorities 
has delivered record-level results, creating a strong platform 
for continued future growth. 
OUR VISION 
Our vision is to be a leading property company that generates 
significant and sustained returns as we unlock value through 
regeneration. Our aim is to transform places into vibrant 
communities, delivering true value and legacy for all.
01
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 May 2014 
2. ACQUISITION OF CATHEDRAL GROUP
Acquisition of Cathedral Group (Cathedral) expands the business, 
adding greater depth of management and nine new mixed-use 
regeneration projects to the portfolio.
3
1
A YEAR OF 
SIGNIFICANT 
PROGRESS
OUR YEAR AT A GLANCE
April 2014 
1. PROPERTY COMPANY
OF THE YEAR
Winner of Property Company 
of the Year at the 2014 
Property Awards. 
June 2014 
3. EXPANDED PRESENCE 
IN DUBLIN
Acquisition of a further four 
properties in Dublin – Burlington 
House, Donnybrook House, 
Charlemont Clinic and Robswall 
– for in excess of £60 million
underlines our presence in
this key regional market.
02 5
4
6
September 2014 
5. PLANNING CONSENT 
SECURED AT CIRCUS 
STREET
Planning consent secured 
for Circus Street, a complex 
mixed-use regeneration project 
in Brighton. Planning is the 
key driver of value in all of 
our activities, enabling us to 
transform redundant land and 
assets into new places that 
create value and growth.
September 2014 
4. MAJOR HAMMERSMITH 
OFFICE DEVELOPMENT 
FULLY LET
10 Hammersmith Grove is fully 
let, setting a new benchmark 
for Hammersmith rents. 
10 and 12 Hammersmith Grove 
demonstrate our expertise in 
Grade A office development in 
growth markets outside of core 
Central London.
January 2015 
7. CAPITAL RECYCLING WITHIN 
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
Recycling of capital within our investment portfolio continues 
with the acquisition of two assets in Manchester and Newcastle. 
Our investment portfolio has been improved and refocussed 
through the sale of mature assets during the year and their 
replacement with high yielding convenience retail and alternative 
assets with asset management potential.
December 2014 
6. £13.3m OF PROFIT RELEASED FROM 
RESIDENTIAL LAND SALES
The sale of Telegraph Works in Greenwich and the funding 
partnership with L&Q at 399 Edgware Road add to the high  
level of cash profits realised throughout the year generating 
£10.2 million and £3.1 million of profits respectively. Both of  
these projects highlight the increasing importance of residential 
use in generating significant value for the Company.
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 8
9
7
February 2015 
8. NEW LEADERSHIP 
FOR THE BUSINESS
Michael Marx announces 
decision to step down as 
CEO, with Matthew Weiner to 
succeed him in this role and 
Richard Upton, previously 
Chief Executive of Cathedral, 
to become Deputy CEO.
March 2015 
9. SIGNIFICANT 
SOUTHWARK
PROJECT SECURED
JV signed with TfL for a 
significant redevelopment 
project at Southwark 
Underground station 
demonstrating our expertise 
in complex, mixed-use 
regeneration projects with 
public sector partners.
Killingworth Shopping Centre, Newcastle Cover image: The Movement, Greenwich
This mixed-use regeneration project adjacent to 
Greenwich DLR station was one of the first projects 
on which we partnered with Cathedral Group. Now 
complete, it has delivered a vibrant new place, with 
student accommodation, new homes, new retail 
space and a hotel.
03
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 HOW WE 
MAKE A 
PLACE
By understanding what’s 
important to our stakeholders, 
we can deliver places that add 
value to people’s lives and help 
to strengthen communities.
04
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 The Deptford Project  — Page 06
Creating a vibrant new mixed-use living quarter in Deptford 
in partnership with the London Borough of Lewisham. 
St Mark’s Square  — Page 08
Adding to the life of south Bromley through a leisure-led mixed-use 
regeneration project in partnership with the London Borough of Bromley. 
Circus Street  — Page 10
Turning a derelict market in Brighton into a new social and cultural 
quarter in partnership with Brighton & Hove Council and the 
University of Brighton. 
05
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015  ‘‘THE DEPTFORD PROJECT CAFÉ SHOWED THE POSITIVE ASPECTS 
OF REGENERATION, BY USING SOMETHING OLD, NEGLECTED AND 
REJECTED AND HELPING IT BECOME SOMETHING ELSE, MUCH LIKE 
THE SITE ON WHICH IT STOOD. A LANDMARK WAS CREATED WHICH 
HELPED PEOPLE TO BECOME MORE AWARE OF DEPTFORD.”
REBECCA MOLINA, THE DEPTFORD PROJECT CAFÉ
1
06
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
HOW WE MAKE A PLACE continued 4
3
2
1. Our programme to regenerate
the neighbourhood around
Deptford High Street started in
2008 when we shipped a 1960s
train carriage on to the site and
turned it into one of London’s
most iconic cafés. The Deptford
Project Café was run by a local
group, led by Rebecca Molina, for
five years.
2. Now under construction,
the Deptford Project is due to
complete in November 2015.
3. In the arches under the 1830s
Grade II-listed carriage ramp
we gave homes to some of the
area’s young designer-makers.
The site became a central
hub for the public consultation
and a programme of art and
cultural events.
4. Deputy Mayor of Lewisham,
Councillor Alan Smith (l), Richard
Upton and Mayor of Lewisham
Sir Steve Bullock (c) speak to
Ardmore apprentices at the
construction and apprenticeship
event which we organised in
partnership with our contractor,
Ardmore Group.
The Deptford Project
The Deptford Project is a £47 million Public Private Partnership 
with the London Borough of Lewisham. The project is the result 
of a considerable level of dialogue and consultation between 
the Council, the public, developers, stakeholders, the design 
team and ourselves. 
The development, on a derelict two-acre site next to Deptford railway 
station, was designed to foster social and economic growth bringing 
the space back into use by the local community. New public realm will 
reconnect the site with the high street, train station and Deptford’s 
much loved, eclectic markets. Throughout the design and development 
process, engagement with the local community was important, so 
that we could deliver a project that everyone would be proud of, which 
addressed the needs of the local area and repositioned this important 
gateway to Deptford High Street. We undertook our most extensive 
public consultation to date, with over 300 people attending and 
contributing to the process.
Now under construction, once complete, the project will deliver 
132 new homes, 14 arch-space workshops, a market yard, seven 
commercial units, two restaurants and the restoration of a Grade II-
listed carriage ramp, London’s oldest surviving railway structure. 
Construction began in April 2014 with completion due in 
November 2015.
07
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 1
 ‘‘THE NEW COMMUNITY GARDEN IS A REAL BOOST TO THE CHURCH. 
WE ARE VERY GRATEFUL TO THE TEAM FOR IMPROVING THE 
SPACE WHICH WAS MUCH IN NEED OF A REVAMP . WE ARE LOOKING 
FORWARD TO SEEING THE GARDEN WELL USED AS THE WARMER 
MONTHS APPROACH.”
THE REVEREND STEVE VARNEY , ST MARK’S CHURCH
HOW WE MAKE A PLACE continued
08
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 4
3
2
1. St Mark’s Church is one of our
closest and dearest neighbours
in Bromley. In 2014, we helped to
deliver a brand new community
garden for the church.
2. In 201 1, we turned the former
Westmoreland Road car park into
a pop-up cinema to kick start
public consultation in Bromley.
Richard Upton (l) and Leader
of Bromley Council, Councillor
Stephen Carr (r) are pictured
here at the launch event.
3. In July 201 1, we parked a
specially converted shipping
container opposite Bromley’s
Central Library and welcomed
the public in to comment on our
scheme. Over 400 local people
gave feedback on the scheme.
4. Schoolchildren from
neighbouring St Mark’s Primary
School helped us name the
new addresses created by
the development.
St Mark’s Square, Bromley
We are now well underway with the construction of St Mark’s 
Square, a £90 million mixed-use development at the southern 
end of Bromley town centre. The former site of the 600-space 
Westmoreland Road car park, this leisure-led, mixed-use 
development project is a major catalyst in helping to shape 
the future direction and prosperity of the town. 
The scheme includes a landscaped public square surrounded by 
a nine-screen multiplex VUE cinema, 25,000 sq. ft. of cafés and 
restaurants, including PizzaExpress and Prezzo, a 130-bed Premier Inn 
hotel, 200 private and affordable apartments and a new 400-space 
secure underground car park. We look forward to reaching practical 
completion in Autumn 2016.
09
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015  ‘‘THIS HAS BEEN A GREAT WEEK AND WE HOPE WE HAVE BEEN ABLE 
TO HELP MANY MORE PEOPLE IN THE CITY TO GET BACK ON THEIR 
BIKES – WE’D LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO HAS JOINED IN FOR 
THEIR PARTICIPATION AND SUPPORT AND ESPECIALLY CATHEDRAL 
GROUP FOR ITS VISION IN MAKING THIS POSSIBLE.”
DUNCAN BLINKHORN, LOVE YOUR BIKE WEEK.
HOW WE MAKE A PLACE continued
1
10
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 4
3
2
1. Duncan Blinkhorn helped to
launch the Circus Street Bike
Hub in the market in February
2014, employing organisation
Bike Train CIC which uses old
metal bike frames and recycled
wood to make cargo bikes and
trailers to carry goods.
2. In April 2013, over 450 local
people attended the consultation
we held in the market. To launch
the consultation, South East
Dance brought performance and
dance into the market space and
we also gave away plants and
seeds to the local community.
3. Caroline Lucas MP came
along to Love Your Bike Week in
February 2014 to open the Circus
Street Bike Hub, created by local
organisation Groundwork South.
4. South East Dance hosted
a programme of activities,
including Urban Playground
‘Steam’ Parkour dance
workshops with local children,
in the Circus Street Market.
Circus Street, Brighton
Circus Street, Brighton, is a £100 million mixed-use Public 
Private Partnership between Brighton & Hove City Council, 
the University of Brighton and ourselves. The redevelopment 
will turn the site of a derelict fruit and vegetable market into a 
vibrant new quarter of the city, an economically and creatively 
productive neighbourhood that blends art, culture, modern 
living and hi-tech start up business. 
The regeneration of Circus Street includes many benefits for Brighton 
& Hove including an estimated gross value add of over £200 million 
and around 350 new jobs over the next ten years. It will deliver two 
landmark public buildings: The Dance Space, a new home for South 
East Dance which will be the hub that connects world class artists to 
the local community; and a library and teaching building for the 
University of Brighton.
There will be 142 much-needed sustainable new homes and managed 
accommodation for up to 450 students to meet the shortage of 
dedicated student accommodation in the city. The scheme will also 
deliver a modern office building of over 38,000 sq. ft. of flexible office 
space to help creative and digital businesses to grow and flourish in 
the city.
11
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Acquisition of Cathedral Group
The acquisition of specialist regeneration developer Cathedral 
Group (Cathedral) in May 2014 was a strategic step-change for 
your Company, significantly expanding our current portfolio of projects 
and deepening the strength and experience of our management 
team. Cathedral’s expertise in residential-led mixed-use regeneration 
projects in Greater London and the South East is complementary 
to our own, and has expanded our capacity to build our pipeline 
and market share going forward. It is pleasing to note that the sale 
in December 2014 of the Cathedral project Telegraph Works, in 
Greenwich, has already contributed to our strong development 
and trading gains during the year. 
Management changes
In February 2015, we announced that after 21 years of service on 
the Board, Michael Marx will stand down from his position as Chief 
Executive at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 14th July 2015. 
Michael will be succeeded by Matthew Weiner as Chief Executive, 
who has served as a Board Director for 10 years. Richard Upton, 
formerly Chief Executive of Cathedral and a Board Director of 
Development Securities, will be appointed as Deputy Chief Executive 
with Marcus Shepherd continuing as Finance Director. Matthew has 
been pivotal to the success of the business in recent years and will 
be supported by a strong management team. I am confident that 
this team is best placed to deliver the full potential of the business. 
Following the AGM, Michael will remain on the Board as a Non-
executive Director until 29th February 2016. I would like to thank 
Michael for his outstanding contribution for many years as Chief 
Executive. Under his leadership, the Company has grown into one 
of the UK’s leading regeneration developers.
In March 2015, Julian Barwick stepped down from the Board in 
order to reduce his time commitment to the business. Julian retains 
his position as a Director of our development subsidiary and I have 
no doubt that he will still contribute significantly to the business 
in the years ahead with a continued focus on our office-led 
development projects.
I am also pleased to note again the appointment of Barry Bennett 
to your Board, previously Chairman of Cathedral, who brings 
with him significant and relevant experience of residential and 
mixed-use development.
Outlook
The ongoing economic recovery in the UK is now beginning to 
manifest itself in real wage growth, job creation and reduced 
unemployment which I believe will continue to support the increasingly 
vibrant economy in Greater London and the South East. This provides 
a healthy backdrop for all of our activities, particularly our ability to 
create value through regeneration. With such a talented senior 
management team, a diversified portfolio of projects and deep 
expertise in regeneration development, we enter 2015 strongly 
positioned to continue to deliver enhanced shareholder value. 
Finally, my thanks to our management team and staff who have 
continued to apply themselves wholeheartedly and with the utmost 
professionalism, to create the significant value that we have achieved 
this year and that we believe we will continue to achieve in the future. 
David Jenkins
Chairman
29th April 2015
Financial performance
This has been an excellent year for your Company in which the 
successful execution of our strategic objectives has produced a 
step-change in the level of performance. I am delighted to report a 
headline profit before tax of £45.4 million for the year ended 28th 
February 2015 (2014: £19.5 million), the highest profit ever recorded 
by your Company. After exceptional items* of £10.6 million, the profit 
before tax amounted to £34.8 million. The main contributor to our 
overall profitability was the £45.7 million of development and trading 
gains realised from a number of asset disposals during the year 
(2014: £27.0 million), another record-level result for the business. 
After the deduction of £17.0 million by way of dividends, including 
the special dividend, shareholders’ funds increased by £26.1 million 
(8.1 per cent) to £346.4 million from £320.3 million as at 
28th February 2014. Net assets per share ended the year  
at 276 pence per share compared to 262 pence per share  
at 28th February 2014.
Our level of net debt, excluding our share of debt within joint ventures, 
remained low at 36.3 per cent compared with 48.0 per cent at 
28th February 2014. Given the strength and stability of our Balance 
Sheet and our prudent business model, the Board has recommended 
the payment of a final dividend for the year of 3.5 pence per share, 
payable on 20th August 2015 to shareholders on the register on 
24th July 2015. Including the special dividend paid on 7th April 2015, 
this final dividend will bring the total dividends paid during the year 
to 13.9 pence per share, more than double the amount paid in the 
previous year.
The special dividend of £10.0 million (8.0 pence per share) was paid 
out of both the strong cash flow arising from a number of land and 
asset sales, and from the successful monetisation of one of our 
remaining significant legacy assets, 399 Edgware Road. Going 
forward we will continue to review the efficiency of our Balance 
Sheet in order to maintain a disciplined capital structure and 
maximise returns to shareholders. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
A YEAR OF 
RECORD-LEVEL 
PERFORMANCE
* exceptional non-recurring items relate to termination of cross currency swap and acquisition 
costs of Cathedral Group.
12
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 David Jenkins, Chairman
Read biography on page 70
Go to page 69 to read the Chairman’s 
introduction to Corporate Governance
13
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 MARKET OVERVIEW
UK economy
UK economic growth has increased over the past twelve months 
reflecting the impact of improved employment levels, increased levels 
of housing market activity and a recovery in the availability of credit. 
Over the past few quarters, UK GDP has grown at an annualised rate 
of around three per cent and this trend is predicted to continue in 
2015 (source: Lazarus Partnership). As indicated by graph 1 opposite, 
improving real wage growth and increased household cash flows have 
the potential to support consumption growth in the near- to medium-
term. At the same time, UK consumer price inflation is low, at close to 
zero per cent, having fallen sharply, and we expect interest rates to 
continue to track at close to zero per cent as they have done for the 
past few years. The improving economic backdrop is supportive to our 
activities across the full range of our portfolio. 
Strength of Greater London
Greater London and the South East are continuing to lead the UK’s 
recovery, outpacing the rest of the UK in terms of job creation, inward 
investment and GDP growth. These regions are expected to maintain 
their positions as the two fastest growing regions in the UK in 2015 
(source: PwC, UK economic outlook report Q1 2015). As such, we 
continue to focus on real estate opportunities in the South East, 
Greater London and the ‘London City Region’, those areas directly served 
and supported by infrastructure and employment links to the capital. 
Regeneration opportunities
With the yield spread between prime and secondary property still 
wide, our focus remains on regeneration opportunities where we can 
proactively add value through planning betterment, asset enhancement 
and redevelopment, in essence transitioning secondary property into 
prime (graph 2). The acquisition of Cathedral, a specialist in Public 
Private Partnership (PPP) projects, has also opened up further 
avenues for regeneration projects in partnership with public bodies. 
Local authorities are estimated to own £170 billion of real estate and 
land assets offering ample opportunity for us to expand our pipeline of 
PPP projects (source: Localis). 
Residential market
Notwithstanding a slight slowdown in Q1 2015, the housing market 
shows signs of sustained underlying strength of demand, with the 
labour market continuing to improve, the rate of mortgage approvals 
showing an upwards trend since 2008 and a positive outlook going 
forwards (graph 3). We anticipate that housing demand will continue to 
improve, particularly in Greater London where the shortage of housing 
is particularly marked. In addition, demand for mid-market product 
(£450–£700 per sq. ft.) is strong as demonstrated by graph 4. These 
trends suggest a positive backdrop for our residential-led activities 
which are predominantly linked to mixed-use regeneration projects in 
Greater London and the South East, catering to the affordable end of 
the residential market.
Retail market
The uptick in consumer spending and retail sales (graph 5) supports 
the potential for retail values and rents within certain markets to 
improve. Investment activity in regional markets continues to improve 
as institutional investment spreads beyond London and into key 
regional cities. 
Commercial office market
Office rental values outside of Central London have shown a marked 
improvement over the past few years (graph 6) and we anticipate 
that this will continue as office supply remains tight. Our focus in the 
commercial office market is on well-connected locations outside of 
Central London’s traditional core markets e.g. Hammersmith, Slough, 
Cambridge and also Dublin, where demand is demonstrable and the 
pipeline of high-quality office space is limited. 
AMPLE 
OPPORTUNITY 
FOR FURTHER 
INVESTMENT 
AND GROWTH
14
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 2. Regeneration opportunities – prime/secondary yield
spread still wide
07
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
08 09 10 11 12 13 14
 Prime/secondary yield spread (Bps)
Source: Capital Economics
1. Unemployment rate and real average earnings growth
07 05
-2
-3
-1
0
1
2
3
4
9.5
8.5
7.5
6.5
5.5
4.5
3.5
09 11 13 17 15
 Real average earnings (LHS % yoy, 12-month average)
 Unemployment rate (RHS, %)
Source: ONS, Lazarus Partnership
4. Demand for mid-market residential product
Lower Mainstream
15,000
Annual net
completions
12,000
9,000
6,000
3,000
0 Mid Mainstream Upper Mainstream
(<£450psf) (<£450-£700 psf) (<£700-£1,000 psf)
4,700
8,650
 Projected annual average supply (2015-19)
 Occupier demand
Source: Savills
3. Mortgage approvals rate – set to rise
06
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
’000s
08 10 12 16 14
Source: Capital Economics
Capital
Economics
forecast
6. Commercial office market – nominal rental growth
16.6
7.4
7.8
5.4
0.5
0.2
5.4
2.5
0
10.3
5.8
6.0
3.5
10.2
1.3
-7.1
-18.9
-8.5
-6.6
-2.4
-1.8
-1.6
-2.2
4.4
2.6
0.4
0.6
07
% yoy
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
-20
08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15
  Central London 
  Rest of South East 
  Rest of UK
Source: Capital Economics
Capital
Economics
forecast
5. Retail market – total consumer spend
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1200
1300
1400
1500
-3.0
-2.0
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
% change
Retail market
£’bn
926.6
908.1
953.3
985.8
1022.2
1059.7
1100.2
1150.4
1203.3
1256.3
1309.0
1361.4
1415.9
08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 18 20
Source: Lazarus Partnership
  £’bn (LHS)
  
% yoy growth (RHS) 
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Our performance
During the financial year, we realised development and trading gains 
of £45.7 million, a record-level for your Company and the first of what 
we believe will be many years of heightened profitability. This included 
significant gains of £4.4 million arising from our main legacy asset, 
399 Edgware Road. Other significant contributors to profitability were 
10 Hammersmith Grove, our 1 10,000 sq. ft. prime office development 
which is now fully let and generated gains of £6.7 million, and the 
substantial residential development at Telegraph Works, Greenwich, 
one of Cathedral’s projects, which realised an initial profit of 
£10.2 million. 
As one would expect, the realisation of such significant profits, 
together with the monetisation of the underlying invested equity 
capital, has released funds for us to reinvest in new projects within 
our acknowledged area of expertise. Our focus is on opportunities 
where we can create value through planning gain, regeneration and 
development. Dublin became an increasing area of interest for us as 
we took our expertise and experience into an international capital city 
where development had also been severely constrained since the 
financial crash and where demand is currently resurging. 
Within our investment portfolio, property valuations continued to 
benefit from the narrowing yield spread between primary and 
secondary markets. During the year, we successfully recycled in 
excess of £60 million out of assets where we had maximised added 
value and reinvested this into convenience retail and alternative assets 
with robust long-term income streams, more resilient values and 
attractive income yields. Our investment portfolio is now re-established 
at its £200 million level.
Our market
The UK economic recovery continues, with GDP growth in the 
current year likely to equal or even exceed that of 2014. This 
stable environment is attracting not only inward migration but also 
a significant flow of funds from overseas investors into London and 
other big cities. Notwithstanding, the Government has some way yet 
to go in order to reduce the significant UK budget account deficit, 
implying that further reductions in Government expenditure are to 
be anticipated.
Outlook
This has been a year of standout performance for your Company with 
activity levels now established at an enhanced level as terms of trade 
remain attractive in the geographic and operational sectors in which 
we operate. It is especially pleasing to report that the management 
team has been deepened in both quality and numbers following the 
Cathedral acquisition. It is this management team that will deliver the 
promise that lies ahead and in whom I have undoubted confidence.
Michael Marx
Chief Executive
29th April 2015
Our focus
During the year, we have seen an improved financial performance 
derived from the strategic direction that we set a few years ago. Our 
focus remains to create value through property regeneration and trading, 
with planning betterment providing the key to value creation in the 
majority of our activities. We have expanded the number of regeneration 
projects on which we are working and are largely focussed within 
Greater London and the South East region where economic growth is 
most pronounced. Rather than invest a disproportionate amount of our 
resources into any one project, we have continued to limit the amount of 
equity invested by us into any one scheme, thus reducing specific asset 
pricing risk. As a consequence, deal flow and activity levels have been 
high and I would expect this to remain unchanged in the medium-term. 
Our regeneration activities focus on mixed-use development and 
placemaking. It is a process whereby we can add significant value as 
areas of previous dereliction and neglect are radically changed into 
vibrant new communities with an infrastructure that creates a quality 
legacy for future generations. Our activities in this area of the market 
have been significantly enhanced through the acquisition of Cathedral 
Group (Cathedral), which has brought with it an increase in the number 
of delivery options available to us, particularly with respect to residential 
development activity and Public Private Partnership projects. 
WELL 
POSITIONED 
TO DELIVER 
STRENGTHENED 
RETURNS
16
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Michael Marx, Chief Executive (second from left)
Photographed in Howick Place, Victoria, London, the new 
headquarters office for the Group, with the Executive Board 
(from left to right): Marcus Shepherd, Matthew Weiner and 
Richard Upton. Read biographies on pages 70 and 71
17
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Our development and trading activities are delivered in a number of 
ways, allowing us to maintain a disciplined capital structure, low-risk 
model and maximise our returns. As detailed in the facing diagram, in 
all of our activities, planning betterment is the key driver to value uplift. 
FORWARD-FUNDED DEVELOPMENT
We carry out our large-scale development and regeneration projects 
in partnership with longer-term capital/delivery partners. This allows 
us to share financial and project risk, often with institutional partners, 
whilst ultimately realising gains from land improvement profits and 
profit share agreements. 
Examples from the year: 10 and 12 Hammersmith Grove, 
399 Edgware Road, St Mark’s Square, Bromley
ON BALANCE SHEET DEVELOPMENT
We have the capacity to deliver modest scale, shorter-lifecycle 
development projects on our own Balance Sheet taking the project from 
acquisition, through planning, construction and ultimately to disposal. 
Example from the year: The Deptford Project
TRADING ACTIVITY
At opportune points in the market, we are able to acquire assets and 
realise gains over the short-term. Our trading activities are diverse, 
but focus on opportunities where terms of trade are in our favour 
and where we see opportunities to add value efficiently.
Examples from the year: North London office portfolio, Romford
We deliver returns through regeneration, realising profits by 
successfully repositioning undervalued land and assets into new places 
that deliver social and economic value to a wide range of stakeholders. 
We use our expertise in planning to unlock value, generating profits by 
developing these places ourselves or through asset sales to specialist 
funding or delivery partners. 
With a 25-year track record in mixed-use development, we have the 
requisite skills to deliver a wide range of projects, either in partnership 
with long-term capital or, where appropriate, on our own Balance Sheet. 
In this way, we create a legacy of development that demonstrates quality 
and commitment to the communities in which we work. 
We are also nimble enough to identify value-enhancing trading deals 
that can be executed more swiftly to deliver superior returns.
We seek to employ an equity-light approach to development, limiting 
our financial exposure by pre-funding our development projects or 
by securing access to development land through Public Private 
Partnership projects with local authorities and other public bodies. 
This strategy has guided us successfully through many property and 
economic cycles, reducing downside risk whilst enabling us to build 
a pipeline of projects with significant upside potential.
We focus on markets in Greater London and the South East as well 
as strong regional cities, including Manchester and Dublin, maintaining 
a diversified portfolio of assets that spreads risk and protects us 
from specific asset price volatility. In all of our activities, we focus on 
opportunities where our size and expertise afford us competitive 
advantage and where we are able to maximise gain. 
Our high yielding investment portfolio generates an attractive, 
sustainable cash yield that supports our business activities and 
sustains our corporate overheads. Our proactive asset management 
activities drive income and value growth to deliver strong returns. 
HOW WE CREATE 
VALUE THROUGH 
DEVELOPMENT, 
TRADING AND 
INVESTMENT
Go to page 34 to read our Risk Review
18
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
OUR BUSINESS MODEL ACQUISITION
FORWARD-FUNDED 
DEVELOPMENT
Disposal (funding secured 
for development)
Project delivery  
and asset management
LAND 
IMPROVEMENT 
PROFIT
Completed 
development
GAIN FROM 
PROFIT SHARE 
WITH FUND
ON BALANCE SHEET 
DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING SECURED
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING ACTIVITY
Development  
finance secured
Project delivery  
and asset management
Completed 
development
Disposal
PROFIT
FROM DISPOSAL
TRADING 
ACTIVITY
Disposal
PROFIT 
FROM DISPOSAL
HOW WE CREATE VALUE
STABLE NET INCOME SUPPORTS BUSINESS OVERHEADS
19
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR THE FULL YEAR 2015
STRATEGIC PRIORITY PROGRESS* CASE STUDY FUTURE OUTLOOK
1
GROW PIPELINE OF VALUE
ENHANCING DEALS
c.£250m
of acquisitions, representing 
21 new projects in the year
This includes the acquisition 
of Cathedral Group, adding 
nine mixed-use regeneration 
projects in Greater London 
and the South East.
Preston Barracks, Brighton
One of the assets within the Cathedral
portfolio, Preston Barracks is a Public
Private Partnership (PPP) project with the
University of Brighton and Brighton & Hove
Council which will create a new mixed-use 
gateway regeneration for the city. See
pages 22-23 to find out more.
We continue to see healthy terms of
trade for further acquisitions in the
following areas:
— regeneration opportunities in Greater 
London and the South East, key regional
cities and Dublin
— PPP projects
— trading opportunities
2
ENHANCE VALUE
THROUGH PLANNING
10
planning consents achieved
7
planning applications 
submitted
Circus Street, Brighton
See pages 24-25 to see how we are
transforming a derelict fruit and vegetable
market on a prime site in Brighton into
a new ‘Innovation Quarter’.
Planning remains the key value driver within
our regeneration activities. We will continue
to focus on opportunities where we can
transform undervalued land and assets
through planning change of use.
3
REALISE GAINS THROUGH
ASSET RECYCLING
£45.7 m
record-level development 
and trading gains delivered 
£230m
of real estate disposals
Cross Quarter, Abbey Wood, London
On a vacant site in Abbey Wood, South
East London, we are delivering a mixed-use
regeneration project right next to the new
Crossrail station. See pages 26-27 to read
more about how we are creating value and
a new legacy for Abbey Wood.
With a strong pipeline of projects
established, we have the capacity to
generate strong cash flows from further
disposals across our portfolio.
4
CRYSTALLISE VALUE
WITHIN LEGACY ASSETS
£6.1m
of profit realised from disposal 
of legacy assets including 
399 Edgware Road
399 Edgware Road, London
399 Edgware Road will create a major
new mixed-use community in North London.
This year we unlocked £26.0 million of
cash (equivalent to book value) with up
to £17.0 million of profit to flow from this
previously non-income producing scheme.
On pages 28-29 you’ll find further details on
the significant progress we have made this
year at this landmark regeneration project.
We have one significant remaining legacy
asset at Curzon Street, Birmingham, where
development opportunities are impacted by
the Government CPO process as a result of
the proposed HS2 rail route.
5
ENHANCE VALUE OF INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIO, RECYCLING CAPITAL 
OUT OF MATURE ASSETS INTO 
NEW OPPORTUNITIES
8
investment assets sold
for £60.8 million
12.2% valuation increase in 
investment portfolio including 
share of JVs
6
investment assets acquired 
for £65.7 million
Chill Factor
e
, Trafford
See pages 30-31 to see how we have
continued a process of capital recycling
within our investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio continues to
generate high cash yields that help to
support our business overheads.
We will continue to proactively drive income
levels and add value across our portfolio
through a range of asset enhancement and
management strategies.
*All since 1st March 2014 to date and including projects in joint venture.
20
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC PRIORITY PROGRESS* CASE STUDY FUTURE OUTLOOK
1
GROW PIPELINE OF VALUE
ENHANCING DEALS
c.£250m
of acquisitions, representing 
21 new projects in the year
This includes the acquisition
of Cathedral Group, adding
nine mixed-use regeneration 
projects in Greater London
and the South East.
Preston Barracks, Brighton
One of the assets within the Cathedral 
portfolio, Preston Barracks is a Public 
Private Partnership (PPP) project with the 
University of Brighton and Brighton & Hove 
Council which will create a new mixed-use 
gateway regeneration for the city. See 
pages 22-23 to find out more.
We continue to see healthy terms of 
trade for further acquisitions in the 
following areas:
 — regeneration opportunities in Greater 
London and the South East, key regional 
cities and Dublin
 — PPP projects
 — trading opportunities
2
ENHANCE VALUE
THROUGH PLANNING
10
planning consents achieved
7
planning applications 
submitted
Circus Street, Brighton
See pages 24-25 to see how we are 
transforming a derelict fruit and vegetable 
market on a prime site in Brighton into 
a new ‘Innovation Quarter’. 
Planning remains the key value driver within 
our regeneration activities. We will continue 
to focus on opportunities where we can 
transform undervalued land and assets 
through planning change of use. 
3
REALISE GAINS THROUGH
ASSET RECYCLING
£45.7 m
record-level development
and trading gains delivered
£230m
of real estate disposals
Cross Quarter, Abbey Wood, London
On a vacant site in Abbey Wood, South 
East London, we are delivering a mixed-use 
regeneration project right next to the new 
Crossrail station. See pages 26-27 to read 
more about how we are creating value and 
a new legacy for Abbey Wood.
With a strong pipeline of projects 
established, we have the capacity to 
generate strong cash flows from further 
disposals across our portfolio.
4
CRYSTALLISE VALUE
WITHIN LEGACY ASSETS
£6.1m
of profit realised from disposal
of legacy assets including
399 Edgware Road
399 Edgware Road, London
399 Edgware Road will create a major 
new mixed-use community in North London. 
This year we unlocked £26.0 million of 
cash (equivalent to book value) with up 
to £17.0 million of profit to flow from this 
previously non-income producing scheme. 
On pages 28-29 you’ll find further details on 
the significant progress we have made this 
year at this landmark regeneration project. 
We have one significant remaining legacy 
asset at Curzon Street, Birmingham, where 
development opportunities are impacted by 
the Government CPO process as a result of 
the proposed HS2 rail route. 
5
ENHANCE VALUE OF INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIO, RECYCLING CAPITAL
OUT OF MATURE ASSETS INTO
NEW OPPORTUNITIES
8
investment assets sold
for £60.8 million
12.2% valuation increase in
investment portfolio including
share of JVs
6
investment assets acquired
for £65.7 million
Chill Factor
e
, Trafford
See pages 30-31 to see how we have 
continued a process of capital recycling 
within our investment portfolio. 
Our investment portfolio continues to 
generate high cash yields that help to 
support our business overheads.
We will continue to proactively drive income 
levels and add value across our portfolio 
through a range of asset enhancement and 
management strategies.
Go to page 32 to read our KPIs 
and page 34 for our Risk Review
21
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
21
new projects acquired
c.£250m
of new acquisitions
1. GROW PIPELINE OF
VALUE ENHANCING DEALS
We have established a diversified pipeline of projects, allowing 
us to mitigate specific asset risk whilst generating strong cash 
flows from our development and trading activities. During the 
year, we acquired a number of new projects which offer us 
opportunities to apply our expertise in planning, regeneration 
and development in order to realise value. 
Preston Barracks, Brighton
The acquisition of Cathedral Group in May 2014 added nine new 
projects to our portfolio, the majority of which are residential-led 
mixed-use regeneration projects in Greater London and the South East. 
A number of the projects are Public Private Partnerships, such 
as Preston Barracks in Brighton. Since the Cathedral acquisition, 
we have exchanged contracts with Brighton & Hove Council and the 
University of Brighton to bring forward the development of a former 
army barracks site to the north of the city. Preston Barracks, a 
£150 million scheme, will create a new gateway development for 
Brighton that includes 500 student beds, 350 residential units and 
25,000 sq. ft. of retail space as well as providing additional space for 
one of the University’s campuses.
In the year ahead, we will be preparing a planning application for this 
new development for submission in Q4 2015.
Brighton Pier
22
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Town centre
London Road Brighton
Preston Baracks
23
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION continued
10
planning consents secured
2. ENHANCE VALUE 
THROUGH PLANNING
Planning betterment remains the key driver to value growth in 
most of our development and trading activities allowing us to 
reposition undervalued secondary assets into prime markets, 
capturing the value uplift therein.
Circus Street, Brighton
On the site of a derelict fruit and vegetable market in a prime 
location in central Brighton, we have secured planning permission 
for a comprehensive regeneration project which will see this site 
come to life once again.
Circus Street will deliver a £100 million mixed-use regeneration 
scheme that will include a new academic building, library and gallery 
for the University of Brighton and a new dance studio for South East 
Dance. The development will also include 142 new homes, 450 student 
bedrooms and 38,000 sq. ft. of office space, and is set to start on site 
in Q3 2015.
24
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 25
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION continued
£45.7 m
of development and trading 
gains delivered
3. REALISE GAINS THROUGH 
ASSET RECYCLING
This year, we have generated a record-level of profit from our 
development and trading activities, realising gains through the 
successful execution of our individual project business plans. 
Cross Quarter, Abbey Wood
Cross Quarter, Abbey Wood is a mixed-use regeneration project in 
South East London comprising an 81,000 sq. ft. foodstore, up to 
220 residential units, 5,000 sq. ft. of retail and commercial space 
and a 100-key hotel. 
The foodstore, which is pre-let to Sainsbury’s, has been forward-funded by 
Canada Life and the first phase of residential development, consisting of 
32 units, has been pre-sold ahead of completion of construction, which 
is anticipated in August 2015. These activities allow us to capture land 
improvement and development profit, enhancing our strong cash flow. 
26
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 27
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION continued
£6.1m
of profit realised from disposal 
of legacy assets*
4. CRYSTALLISE VALUE 
WITHIN LEGACY ASSETS
Over the past two years, we have made significant progress to 
unlock value from the few remaining non-income generating 
legacy assets within our portfolio. The cash released from 
this activity has added to our strong cash flow this year and 
underpinned our ability to pay a £10.0 million special dividend 
in April 2015. 
399 Edgware Road, North London
399 Edgware Road will deliver a significant and prominent regeneration 
project in North London, creating a major new residential development 
of 183 homes alongside an 81,000 sq. ft. Morrisons supermarket. The 
development will also include new public realm and Asian restaurants 
and shops, creating a vibrant new retail and residential hub for the 
local community. 
During the year, we secured £41.0 million of funding for the Morrisons 
foodstore from clients of Aberdeen Asset Management and entered 
into a funding agreement with L&Q to deliver the residential element of 
the project. These activities have allowed us to dispose of the majority 
of the site and have released £26.0 million of cash, equivalent to the 
book value of the entire site. Further profits are anticipated over the 
next few years upon the successful delivery of these two phases 
as well as the Asian retail and restaurant element of the project.
*Includes 399 Edgware Road and site in Crawley.
28
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 29
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION continued
£65.7 m
of new acquisitions
12.2%
growth in value 
of investment portfolio 
including joint ventures
5. ENHANCE VALUE OF 
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO, 
RECYCLING CAPITAL OUT 
OF MATURE ASSETS INTO 
NEW OPPORTUNITIES
During the year, we continued to recycle capital within our 
investment portfolio, exploiting the widening investor demand 
for good secondary assets. Having disposed of a number of 
properties during the year where we had maximised value 
from our asset management activities, we have reinvested 
£65.7 million into six new investment assets since 1st March 2014 
to date. As ever, our focus remains on high yielding investment 
assets with robust income streams where we can proactively 
drive value through asset management and enhancement. 
Killingworth Centre, Newcastle and Chill Factor
e
, Manchester
In December 2014, we completed the acquisition of two assets, 
The Killingworth Centre in Newcastle and Chill Factor
e
 in Manchester. 
The Killingworth Centre, acquired for £19.2 million, is a convenience 
retail shopping centre anchored by a Morrisons supermarket 
(outside of our ownership). The centre benefits from a second anchor, 
a 70,000 sq. ft. Matalan store, alongside 28 retail units which are 
fully let, offering a strong tenant mix and stable income stream. 
In Manchester, we acquired Chill Factor
e
 (pictured right), an indoor 
snowsports venue, for £15.5 million in a joint venture with Pemberstone 
Investments Limited. The venue, which contains the UK’s longest real snow 
ski slope, is already well-established but offers a number of opportunities 
to improve footfall, increase customer spend and attract additional tenants 
in order to build on the current popularity of this destination asset.
30
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 31
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 THE FOLLOWING 
KPIs ARE USED 
TO MEASURE 
THE SUCCESS 
OF THE GROUP’S 
STRATEGIC 
PERFORMANCE 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Dividend per share (pence)
XX (£’million)
0
5
10 12* 13 15 14
15
10
20
4.8
5.6
4.8
5.6
13.9
Development and trading gains (£’m)
XX (£’million)
0
20
10
10 12* 13 15 14
30
40
50
5.0
8.6
28.1
27.0
45.7
13.9p
Total dividend
per share
£10.0m
Special dividend
(8.0 pence per share)
148%
Growth
£45.7 m
Realised gains
69.4%
Increase from FY2014
Commentary
In April 2015 we paid a special dividend, reflecting the strong 
cash profits that were realised during the year. The final dividend of 
3.5 pence per share represents a 9.4 per cent increase on 2014.
Our policy has always been that we seek to pay annual dividends 
at a sustainable level with additional distributions being made when 
surplus cash is generated in order to maintain the efficiency of our 
Balance Sheet and a disciplined capital structure. 
*14 month period
*14 month period
Commentary
Our business strategy requires us to efficiently recycle equity as 
we add value to projects by either planning betterment or asset 
management and subsequently dispose of them. As such, development 
and trading gains are a key measure of the Group’s success.
This year we delivered a record-level of development and trading 
gains building on the success of the past few years and adding 
significantly to shareholder value. 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are important in assessing the 
overall health and performance of the business. We measure a range 
of metrics to help manage our long-term performance and achieve our 
business plans. 
32
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 EPRA net asset value (£’m)
XX (£’million)
0
150
100
50
10 12* 13 15 14
250
200
300
350
337.4
320.5
317.6
328.3
345.6
Gearing (%)
XX (£’million)
0
10
10 12* 13 15 14
30
20
40
50
21.4
48.8
47.9
48.0
36.3
36.3%
(Excluding share of 
joint ventures)
£345.6m
EPRA NAV
5.3%
Growth
Commentary
The 5.3 per cent growth in our EPRA NAV reflects the strong 
development and trading profits that we have generated during the 
year as well as the positive revaluation of our investment portfolio. 
Commentary
The Group seeks to maintain a conservative level of gearing. This 
enables us to maintain a low risk financial structure and protect 
shareholder value throughout the property and economic cycles.
*14 month period
*14 month period
Total return (%)
XX (£’million)
0
-5
-10
10 12* 13 15 14
5
10
(7.43)
(5.2)
1.04
6.03
10.0
10.0%
Return
Commentary
Total return, the growth in our basic net asset value including 
dividends, is the most direct way of measuring the returns to 
shareholders during the year and is aligned with our long term 
incentive plan. 
*14 month period
33
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 RISK REVIEW
OUR BUSINESS 
MODEL IS 
DEFINED  
BY THE RISKS 
THE DIRECTORS 
CONSIDER 
MATERIAL TO 
OUR STRATEGY , 
SIZE AND 
CAPABILITIES
Further details of the operation of the 
Group’s Risk Committee can be found 
on page 77
Risk management structure
The Group’s risk profile is maintained under continual review by its 
Risk Committee, which meets quarterly, and by the Board.
Risk Assessment
Identify
Assess
Mitigating actions
Review
Risk Committee
Audit Committee
Board
Board of Directors
Mapping our risks
The Group categorises risks according to the likelihood of occurrence 
and the potential impact on the Group. The Directors consider the 
following to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
These risks have been grouped as either:
 — External risks – whose occurrence is beyond the control of the 
Group; or
 — Business risks – which the Directors choose to manage as part 
of the Group’s operations.
a
d
g
b
e
c
f
 Very Likely Likelihood Unlikely
Low High Impact
34
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 External risks
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION RISK EXPOSURE 
CHANGE YEAR ON YEAR
a. Market risk
The real estate market is closely 
linked with the health of the local 
and national economies. Lack of 
economic growth or recessionary 
conditions will translate into 
negative sentiment towards, and 
performance of, real estate.
 — Lack of liquidity available to 
prospective purchasers of 
completed projects may 
delay ability to realise planned 
disposals or reduce prices, 
leading to significantly 
reduced cash inflows. 
 — Higher occupier risk in existing 
investment properties leading 
to significantly reduced values.
 — Lack of occupier demand 
leading to functional 
obsolescence in properties.
 — Risk averse property 
development strategy whereby 
projects are pre-funded, pre-let, 
or pre-sold. 
 — Long maturities of debt 
finance facilities.
 — Moderate level of gearing.
 — Regular meetings with 
economic forecasters to gauge 
economic trends.
General economic conditions 
have improved during the year 
leading to stabilisation or 
increase in values across most 
sectors, which has meant that 
market risk has continued 
to decrease.
b. Scarcity of investment and 
development opportunities
The Group’s business is 
predominantly transactional and 
requires a flow of opportunities 
for either development/
regeneration or to acquire for 
long-term income and capital 
appreciation. The risk is that 
the flow of suitably priced 
opportunities either reduces 
or stops.
 — Inability to source new 
deals leads to decline in 
development and trading 
profits in future years.
 — Higher pricing of acquisition 
opportunities leads to reduced 
ability to add value.
 — Flexible approach to market 
opportunities, seeking out 
sectors where value can be 
generated and seeking funding 
partners with different return 
requirements.
 — Stringent deal underwriting 
procedures with minimum 
return hurdles.
 — Maintaining broad industry 
contacts for acquisitions rather 
than being dependent upon a 
single source of opportunity.
Opportunities continue to be 
sourced for both development 
and investment which satisfy 
Group underwriting criteria.
c. People risk
The Group’s success depends on 
the ability and experience of its 
Directors and key staff.
 — Failure to retain key individuals 
or the failure to attract and 
retain new talent can result in 
the loss of core competencies, 
industry knowledge and 
networks resulting in a 
reduction in the number and 
scale of profitable opportunities.
 — The Group aims to motivate and 
reward its team appropriately 
and competitively, as described 
in the Remuneration Policy.
 — The Board keeps the strength 
and depth of the team under 
continual review.
The acquisition of Cathedral 
Group has expanded the 
talent pool.
d. Bank funding risk
The pressure on a large number 
of traditional real estate lending 
banks to reduce their exposure 
to real estate reduces the 
capacity and liquidity within 
the lending market.
 — Inability to secure funding for 
new opportunities.
 — Inability to refinance existing 
facilities leading to disposals 
at the wrong time in 
business plans and failing 
to maximise profits.
 — Unpredictability in cash flows.
 — The Group maintains 
relationships with a wide range 
of both bank and non-bank 
lenders, reducing overreliance 
on any one partner.
 — The Group is constantly seeking 
to widen its range of funding 
sources and liaises with new 
entrants into the real estate 
lending market.
The lending market continues to 
see new entrants. Competitive 
pressures have led to a 
reduction in margins and an 
increase in maturities available.
e. Counterparty risk
Transaction counterparties, 
be they joint venture partners, 
purchasers under sale 
contacts or banks in respect 
of cash deposits or derivative 
arrangements, may suffer or 
fail financially.
 — Failure of sales transaction 
counterparties may lead to 
an inability to produce 
trading profits.
 — Failure of financial 
counterparties may impact on 
effectiveness of hedging or 
recoverability of deposits.
 — Proof of funding required prior 
to agreeing sales contracts.
 — The Board regularly assesses 
the credit worthiness of 
financial counterparties prior 
to placing deposits and 
hedging transactions.
Key
Change from last year:     Risk exposure increased     No significant change in risk exposure     Risk exposure reduced
35
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 RISK REVIEW continued RISK REVIEW continued
Case study: 12 Hammersmith Grove, London
What risks we had to consider 
We secured £92.0 million of forward funding from Aberdeen Asset 
Management in March 2014, allowing us to transfer the capital risk 
associated with the delivery of this significant office building to a 
more appropriate, long-term capital partner. As the developer, and 
under the terms of our partnership with Aberdeen, we have a cost 
and time guarantee for the completion of the project, hence, managing 
construction risk is of the utmost importance to us. With commercial 
and residential development activity now increasing, predominantly 
in Greater London, we are seeing a level of cost inflation within the 
construction industry as contractors are under increased demand 
and pressure with respect to resource, labour and materials. Keeping 
our commitment to deliver 12 Hammersmith Grove on time, within 
budget and to the utmost quality is imperative in order to maximise 
the potential upside within this project. 
How we mitigated the risks
Following on from the success of 10 Hammersmith Grove, we have 
retained the same excellent professional team to deliver the second 
building. We have negotiated a fixed price design and build contract 
with Wates, our contractor, against which they provide regular progress 
reports. As part of this process, we have agreed to employ the same 
principal design and build subcontractors securing the same products 
and fabrication knowledge for both buildings which are of very similar 
design. The dedicated project manager reports to the Board and 
also to a divisional board allowing for peer review of any issues each 
month. In this way, we are able to rigorously monitor potential risks to 
the project and utilise our depth of experience to manage these 
risks appropriately.
36
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Business risks
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION RISK EXPOSURE 
CHANGE YEAR ON YEAR
f. Planning risk
Procuring an appropriate and 
valuable planning consent is 
often a key element of the 
creation of value through 
property development.
Securing planning permission 
in a changing political and 
regulatory environment is a 
complex and uncertain process, 
with applications subject to 
objection from a wide range 
of potential stakeholders, 
and hence is prone to delay, 
modification and rejection.
 — Failure to secure planning 
consent can render a project 
unviable/unprofitable and 
lead to the write off of 
considerable costs or 
reduced profit potential.
 — The Group retains a team 
with extensive experience of 
achieving planning consents 
and local knowledge, 
supplemented by advisors 
and sector specialist partners, 
to maximise the chance of 
success and reduce the risks 
and costs of failure.
 — An alternative exit strategy is 
always considered in case of 
planning failure.
Political risk, general election.
g. Construction risk
Real estate construction is 
subject to the risk of cost 
overruns, delay and the financial 
failure of an appointed contractor.
 — Reduced profitability or 
potential loss on individual 
projects.
 — Construction work ceasing 
whilst a suitable replacement 
contractor is found.
 — Guarantees being called.
 — The Group deploys its own 
experienced project managers 
throughout the life of individual 
projects to ensure that costs 
are appropriately budgeted, 
timetables are adhered to and 
hence the impact of these risks 
is minimised.
 — The Group performs appropriate 
pre-contract due diligence on the 
capabilities and financial security 
of its material contractors and 
key sub-contractors.
 — The Group continually monitors 
the financial position of key 
contractors to anticipate 
financial difficulties.
 — The Group also requires its 
main contractors to report on 
the financial position of their 
key sub-contractors.
Several contractors are 
experiencing difficulties due to 
the impact of fixed price, low 
margin contracts entered into 
during previous years where they 
are now having to absorb higher 
material and sub-contractor 
costs. These positions are being 
regularly monitored.
37
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Overview
We recognise the significant impact that our large-scale property 
developments can have on a diverse range of groups. Our stakeholders 
include our employees, shareholders and co-investors, our suppliers, 
our tenants and their employees, their customers and the communities 
surrounding our properties. 
Our acquisition of Cathedral Group (Cathedral), a specialist Public 
Private Partnership developer, provides us with further expertise in 
regeneration projects, where the emphasis is on making places that 
are both economically and socially successful and sustainable.
As we complete the integration with Cathedral, we aim to review our 
policies and processes with the ambition to become one of the most 
sustainable property development companies in the UK.
Our approach
We work constructively within the strong framework of regulation which 
exists to balance the interests of all these groups. However, there are 
many situations in which exceeding minimum standards creates economic, 
social and environmental benefits, contributing to the sustainable success 
of our company and the maintenance of its reputation.
We continue to work to the same high standards that we have reached 
to date, and we will continue to prioritise those activities with which we 
believe we can make a positive impact for our stakeholders.
Our business strategy continues to evolve and with it the diversity 
of our portfolio and engagement in residential development and 
mixed-use regeneration.
Each segment of our portfolio presents different challenges and 
provides specific opportunities. We set out, below, our priorities in 
each segment.
Our governance system
At the start of each financial year, the Executive Directors set objectives 
considering the material issues relating to each of our stakeholder 
groups, including our corporate social and environmental responsibilities.
Performance is regularly assessed by the Executive Directors and new 
targets are set for the following year.
Consolidated health and safety data is reported regularly to the Board. 
Our overall objectives
In all our activities we strive to:
 — Achieve and maintain good practice in all aspects of sustainable and 
responsible development. 
 — Improve the measurement of what we do and aim for continuous 
improvement in our performance.
Respect for people:
Raise awareness of our CSR initiatives amongst our staff to see 
that good practice becomes integral in our way of thinking and 
general practice. 
Maintain a collegiate atmosphere and safe working environment for our 
employees and encourage and facilitate employee development. 
Engage our major suppliers in our sustainable development 
programmes, share our objectives with them and ensure compliance 
with health and safety best practice on all of our sites.
Create diverse and balanced developments that reflect the socio-
economic diversity of the local communities and contribute to their 
enrichment through support for youth programmes, skills development, 
arts projects and environmental projects.
CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
SUCCESSFUL 
BUSINESS 
IS ABOUT 
PEOPLE AND 
RELATIONSHIPS
38
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 All reportable incidents are reported to the Board. In the year to 
28th February 2015, there were twelve reportable incidents. This 
represents a ratio of one reportable incident per 210,000 sq. ft. 
of development.
Every reportable incident is investigated and ‘lessons learned’ 
communicated to our contractors.
New CDM regulations are expected in 2015 and we shall review our 
guidance material when the legislation is approved.
Public consideration
All our contractors report on compliance with environmental legislation 
and all new developments are registered with the Considerate 
Contractors scheme where available to do so.
Wherever possible we go beyond the legislative requirements in our public 
consultations. In the year to 28th February 2015 we carried out engaging 
public consultations at Brighton, Sittingbourne, South Woodham Ferrers 
and have further consultation planned for projects at Ilford, Preston 
Barracks in Brighton and Southwark Station in 2015.
We aim to create places where people want to live, work and play.
For example, at our Circus Street development in Brighton we have 
operated the old municipal market as a community space housing 
a wide range of arts and activities including an important William 
Forsythe art installation for the Brighton Festival.
Our approach to public consultation at Hayes has shown innovation and 
inclusivity, while involvement with the Lyric Theatre in Hammersmith has 
strengthened our relations with local interest groups.
Supporting our industry
We believe the property development industry must maintain the 
highest standards of professionalism and transparency. We contribute 
actively to industry-wide debate and learning, hosting and participating 
in many debates and workshops.
We continue to support the Designing Buildings website, a ‘wiki’ 
type site dedicated to improving knowledge, standardisation and 
understanding throughout the industry.
Our Directors have contributed to many seminars and talks, and our 
company has hosted or chaired events for the British Council of Offices 
(BCO), Place West London and the West London Chamber of Commerce.
In September 2014, we supported the publication of ‘‘Public Land, 
Public Good’’, a study into how to maximise the value of public land and 
property. We have chaired debates at conferences including the BCO 
in Birmingham, events at MIPIM and others in support of the West 
London Business forum.
We have continued to support the BCO’s research into the property 
sector and future placemaking and aim to continue to publish research 
for the benefit of our industry as a whole.
Protecting the environment
Our principal impacts on the wider environment are in the form of 
CO
2
 emissions from construction and use of our properties, and the 
management of waste from construction. Details of our greenhouse 
gas emissions for the year ended 28th February 2015 are set out in 
the Directors’ Report on page 102.
All our contractors are required to report on compliance with 
environmental legislation.
Respect for environment:
Minimise energy and water consumption through considered design, 
construction site best practice and clear advice to occupants.
Minimise waste from all our operations.
Appoint suitably qualified consultants to advise on all aspects of 
environmental protection and options for sustainable development.
Respect for our industry:
Contribute to the better working of our industry by participating in 
debate and publishing research.
Report on progress and highlights of 2014/15
Our people
During the year to 28th February 2015, our corporate operations 
employed an average of 46 people, based in Central London. 
Cathedral, acquired during the year, employed an average of 33 
staff in the year. We have an additional 41 people working for our 
subsidiary companies, including Henry Davidson Developments and 
Executive Communication Centres. 
We actively encourage and support all our employees with personal 
and career development. This year we have financially supported six 
employees as they work towards professional qualifications in finance 
and real estate. 
A priority in the year has been to begin the process of integrating the 
employment policies and practices of Development Securities and 
Cathedral, creating a single, supportive and motivational culture.
We acknowledge the importance of diversity in all its forms and 
the Board is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in 
employment. Further information can be found on page 101.
Supporting charities
We are active supporters of charitable activity, and not just with money. 
Three Executive Directors act as trustees of charities and we have 
committed internal resource to assist with their initiatives.
We contribute to a wide range of charities and social enterprises. 
We particularly focus on those serving the needs of the communities 
in which we work. We continue to support the St Andrew’s Boys Club, 
our main chosen charity, believing they benefit from our long-term 
commitment. 
In 2014/15 we also directly supported Great Ormond Street Hospital 
charity, Tommy’s, Greenwich Starting Blocks Trust, St Christopher’s 
Hospice, the Cancer Trust and Macmillan Cancer Support, and seven 
others through sponsorship of our employees’ efforts in events such as 
a Tough Mudder Challenge, the Marathon Des Sables and Landaid Day.
Further financial support has been given to the Canal and River 
Trust and Hammersmith’s Lyric Theatre. We also supported 
a number of fund raising activities associated with our developments 
at Hammersmith, Hale Barns and Shepherd’s Bush. 
Construction health and safety
We monitor all our projects for Construction and Design Management 
(CDM) regulation compliance, and consistent reporting is the basis of 
useful trend analysis. We contract independent CDM consultants for 
monitoring and management on all our sites. Our briefing documents are 
standardised and, where they are able to, our JV partners are encouraged 
to use the same procedures, reporting to us on a regular basis.
To further improve the quality and consistency of controls and 
reporting, we have established a framework agreement with a single, 
preferred CDM consultant. 
39
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 399 Edgware Road
Progress at 10 and 12 Hammersmith Grove, and 399 Edgware Road 
confirms our ambition to deliver BREEAM ‘Excellent’ schemes while 
also minimising construction waste and CO
2
 emissions from the 
design and construction process.
CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) continued
40
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Investment portfolio
The focus for the management of our property portfolio is on 
developing and implementing policies for the long-term sustainability 
of our estate. Our priorities are to communicate our policies to site 
management and tenants, to monitor energy use and to reduce and 
recycle waste. 
Our managing agents continue to drive best practice throughout our 
estate, with training and knowledge sharing programmes for site-
based staff, and with specific sustainability goals included in their 
personal objectives. We actively promote the development of a team 
approach between site management and tenants, seeking continuous 
engagement and improvement.
We aim to reduce waste sent to landfill from all our sites. We continue 
to improve monitoring and benchmarking of waste management and to 
provide training and engagement opportunities for staff and tenants.
One site, Atlantic Village, has already achieved ISO14001 accreditation 
and we are exploring the options for other sites.
We also continue to make progress on energy management in our 
properties. Every property now has an Energy Performance Certificate, 
all rating C or above. In terms of reducing energy use, the focus has 
initially been on landlord common areas. Many of our sites have 
specific actions planned to reduce energy consumption, with several 
sites having already installed new, low-energy lighting systems. Energy 
contracts have been centralised and all the energy we are responsible 
for is from renewable sources. As refurbishment and development 
work is undertaken, reducing energy consumption will be a significant 
consideration with, for example, planned insulation upgrades. 
Early results of these activities in specific areas have shown reductions 
in energy use of up to five per cent. Eight properties have been 
identified for further in-depth site-based energy audits aimed at 
identifying specific targeted and costed recommendations for 
improving energy efficiency.
The energy audits have been designed to meet the requirements of the 
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) as it relates to energy 
use in buildings.
We are also preparing for compliance with the Heat Metering and 
Billing Regulations 2014, which requires all district and communal heat 
networks to register with the regulator by the 30th April as a first step. 
A significant amount of further work in this respect will be required in 
the run-up to a deadline in December 2016.
We continue to drive performance and efficiency on all fronts and 
look forward to further ramping up our programmes over the next 
twelve months as we seek to make best use of the opportunities 
offered by the latest legislation. 
We continue to work with architects and contractors to realise best 
practice in design and construction. We are committed to delivering 
the most energy efficient and sustainable buildings possible within the 
constraints established by the brief.
In our office-based operations, including vehicles, Development 
Securities reduced overall emissions by 1.7 per cent compared with 
the previous financial year.
Performance highlights
 — Financially supported six staff through professional qualifications 
in finance and real estate
 — Published “Public Land, Public Good”, a report on public land and 
property in association with think tank, Localis
 — Reduced overall CO
2
 emissions by 1.7 per cent
 — Reduced energy consumption across our investment portfolio by 
five per cent
Development and trading portfolio
We manage the design and construction of these projects from 
planning application to delivery. At the outset, and throughout the life 
of each project, we consider the issues of sustainability, from carbon 
footprint to sustainable transport and community socio-economic 
development. By doing these things well we will continue to create 
premium products for responsible owners.
When planning and bidding for development and investment 
opportunities, the briefing material we give to our consultants outlines 
our CSR policies and detailed aspirations. Through early consideration 
in the design process, safety, sustainability, environmental and social 
considerations become embedded in the project.
Progress at 10 and 12 Hammersmith Grove, and 399 Edgware Road 
confirms our ambition to deliver BREEAM ‘Excellent’ schemes while 
also minimising construction waste and CO
2
 emissions from the design 
and construction process.
Last year we reported that the design and construction of 
10 Hammersmith Grove had resulted in six per cent less embedded 
carbon than the RICS benchmark and 18 per cent less operational 
carbon. We also stated a reduction in total carbon footprint of six per 
cent was achieved versus 2 Kingdom Street, our earlier, comparable 
development. We continue to aim for improvement in all these aspects 
of development.
For example, at 399 Edgware Road, a mixed-use scheme, we are 
developing the means to use waste heat from the foodstore to heat 
residential hot water. We are aiming for Code 4 Sustainable Homes 
and BREEAM ‘Excellent’ at this development.
In all such schemes we continue to:
 — Explore options for further lifecycle carbon-reduction through the 
recycling of glass, steel and concrete, the principal construction 
materials, particularly in the design and construction of 
structural frames.
 — Further explore the use of prefabrication to reduce on-site emissions.
 — Design in water and waste efficiency throughout the construction phase.
 — Ensure that ‘sustainable and renewable’ factors are thoroughly 
explored throughout the design process, and that cost/benefit 
analyses are rigorously performed.
 — Continue to hold post-completion reviews with local stakeholders 
at all our major developments to obtain feedback within a year 
of completion.
41
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 A YEAR OF 
SIGNIFICANT 
PROGRESS 
ACROSS OUR 
PORTFOLIO
c.£230m
of real estate 
disposals realised*
£45.7 m
of profit realised from 
asset disposals
c.£250m
of new assets acquired*
8
projects under construction
£250m
of funding secured on 
existing schemes*
PORTFOLIO REVIEW
Our business is split between development and trading projects and 
investment assets (see diagram below). We apply our development and 
trading expertise across a diversified portfolio of assets, creating value 
by improving their quality and use, allowing us to capture the upside 
potential from planning betterment, speculative pre-let and forward-
funded development and asset enhancement. In so doing, we create 
a mix of predictable long-dated profits from our development and 
regeneration activity, combined with shorter-cycle trading profits.  
Our investment portfolio provides a steady income stream from a 
portfolio of high-yielding properties where we are also able to 
proactively drive value through asset management activities. 
FY’15 KPIs
 — 12.2% valuation 
increase including share 
of joint ventures
FY’15 KPIs
 — £45.7m of profits realised
 — 8 projects under construction
 — 15 new projects acquired
Focus on 
 — High yielding assets
 — Asset enhancement 
opportunities
 — Long-term income streams 
Key value drivers
 — Lease re-structures
 — Improve tenant mix and 
rental tone
 — Asset management 
including development
2 key areas of focus 
 — M ix e d - u s e r e ge n e r a t io n 
— Regeneration projects 
— Public Private Partnerships
 — Office-led developments
— Trading activity 
Key value drivers 
 — Planning gain
 — Land improvement profit
 — Development profit
Geographic focus
 — The ‘London City Region’ 
and the South East
 — Manchester 
 — Dublin
Overview of business
DEVELOPMENT AND  
TRADING PORTFOLIO
58% of  
book value 
£291m 
capital value
INVESTMENT  
PORTFOLIO
42% of  
book value 
£211m  
capital value
*Since 1st March 2014 to date and including projects in joint venture.
42
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 7
15
6
14
4
10
16
2
12
13
1
8
5
11
3
9
17
Within London, we have chosen to focus on property markets outside 
of prime Central London (Zone One), seeking opportunities where 
our size and expertise affords us competitive advantage. Our projects 
are located primarily in suburban/Greater London, in locations with 
strong existing or planned infrastructure links. For example, we have 
four assets in Crossrail locations across Greater London. Additionally, 
we see good potential in markets served by the capital, particularly 
locations within an hour’s journey time of the centre, roughly a 90km 
catchment, which are well connected and have access to strong 
labour pools, for example Brighton, Oxford and Cambridge. This 
larger ‘London City Region’ has a population of nearly 20 million 
people and, in our view, can be seen as a functional economic area 
with strong commuter links in and out of the capital. The majority 
of our Greater London properties are residential-led mixed-use 
developments with the residential element of these projects catering 
to the mid-market (£300–£800 per sq. ft. range) where demand 
strength continues to improve and supply remains limited. 
Our development and trading portfolio is focussed in areas of 
economic strength and demand with a significant weighting in 
Greater London and the South East. Outside of London, we focus 
and continue to look for opportunities in Manchester, where we 
have a considerable track record and reputation, and we also have 
a growing presence in Dublin, a market where commercial values, 
occupier demand and investment appetite continue to improve and 
in which we benefit from early mover advantage. We now have seven 
assets in Dublin and are successfully replicating our UK model of 
development, trading and investment in this market. 
Geographic focus
Development and trading assets by WIP Capital value – location profile
3
4
5
6
7 1
2
3
4
5
6
7 1
2
1. Greater London 44.2%
2. South East 16.4%
3. Republic of Ireland 15.2% 
4. South West 9.8%
5. North West 6.2%
6. Midlands 5.8%
7. Others 2.4%
1. South East 37.2%
2. South West 26.5%
3. North 19.0%
4. Wales 6.5%
5. Midlands 4.4%
6. Northern Ireland 4.0%
7. London 2.4%
Sevenoaks
35 mins journey time
Sittingbourne
59 mins journey time
Brighton
54 mins journey time
Oxford
1 hour journey time
Slough
19 mins journey time
Cambridge
45 mins journey time
Key
Route of Crossrail 1
Proposed route of Crossrail 2
M25
 
Zone One (London Underground) 
Key Greater London assets
1 Kensington Church Street
2 Shepherd’s Bush Market
3 10 and 12 Hammersmith Grove
4 399 Edgware Road
5 Morden Wharf, Greenwich
6 Wick Lane Wharf
7 Algarve House, Southwark
8 Telegraph Works, Greenwich
9 Becket House, Waterloo
10 The Deptford Project
11 St Mark’s Square, Bromley
12 Brentwood
13 Woking
Crossrail enhanced projects
14 Brunel Place, Slough
15 The Old Vinyl Factory, Hayes
16 Valentine’s House, Ilford
17 Cross Quarter, Abbey Wood
Sidcup
25 mins journey time
43
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 DEVELOPMENT AND 
TRADING PORTFOLIO
PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
Overview
We create value through regeneration, development and trading 
activity. During the year, we realised profits of £45.7 million (2014: 
£27.0 million). We are continuing to secure further opportunities to 
reinvest this realised equity, and terms of trade remain in our favour. 
Our development and trading portfolio is split into two key areas 
of activity, mixed-use regeneration development and trading as 
outlined below.
The acquisition of Cathedral Group (Cathedral) in May 2014 added 
nine regeneration projects to our portfolio and has enhanced our 
expertise within the residential-led mixed-use development space. 
Furthermore, the integration of Cathedral’s team and our own, and 
the knitting together of our complementary skills, is presenting 
opportunities for us to generate additional value from within our 
existing portfolio and also to enhance our capacity to secure a 
strong pipeline of future projects.
The Cathedral team has a strong track record in both the delivery of 
Public Private Partnership projects and residential-led regeneration. 
With respect to our activity in the residential market, this is becoming 
an area of increased focus for us. Cathedral’s expertise in this field has 
added greater optionality in terms of delivery, namely, it now gives us 
the skill set to build residential for sale on our own Balance Sheet or 
in partnership with more passive capital. Our view on the residential 
market is that the shortage of homes within our area of focus will only 
increase, with forecasts indicating that an additional 2.5 million homes 
will be required by 2036 in the London City Region. This compares to 
an estimated supply of 1.5 million and a consequent shortfall of over 
one million homes up to 2036 or 50,000 homes per annum (source: 
AECOM). Hence, we see ongoing opportunities to create value as 
we enable and deliver residential-led projects. Our focus remains in 
the price range of up to £800 per sq. ft. sales value that is affordable 
to both rental investors and professional couples.
Mixed-use regeneration
We create value through regeneration. We do this by acquiring 
secondary or tertiary assets and land, and through planning betterment 
and redevelopment, transitioning these assets into prime markets in 
which demand is strong. With the yield between secondary and prime 
markets still wide, we see continued opportunity to generate value 
through this process. 
£45.7 m
realised gains
10
planning consents secured*
8
projects under construction*
£1.6bn
GDV of PPP projects
Disposals
The main contributors to the £45.7 million of development and trading gains 
realised during the year were the following land and property disposals:
 — 10 Hammersmith Grove, a 1 10,000 sq. ft. town centre office 
building which was fully let during the year, realising a development 
profit of £6.7 million.
 — 12 Hammersmith Grove where we secured funding with Aberdeen 
Asset Management for the construction of a 167,000 sq. ft. prime 
office building realising a land improvement profit of £2.7 million. 
 — 399 Edgware Road where we secured Aberdeen Asset 
Management as forward-funding partner for the foodstore and L&Q 
as joint venture partner for the residential element of this major 
mixed-use regeneration project. Both of these deals have realised 
profits of £4.4 million with the potential for significant further profit 
in the near-term.
 — Telegraph Works, Greenwich, where our partnership with 
Weston Homes has realised an initial gain of £10.2 million for a 
residential development of 256 apartments and 16 townhouses on 
the Greenwich peninsula. 
 — Tollgate House and Market Place, Romford, where we fully 
disposed of all of the elements of this town centre mixed-use 
development, realising profits in the year of £3.8 million.
 — North London office portfolio which we acquired in February 
2014 and fully disposed of during the year generating profits of 
£6.3 million.
Acquisitions
During the year, we made six acquisitions of development and trading 
assets worth £160.7 million, the full details of which are disclosed in 
the property matrix on pages 48 to 59. Notably, we increased our 
presence within Dublin, acquiring four new development and trading 
assets: Donnybrook House, Charlemont Clinic, Robswall and 
Burlington House. All of these properties present opportunities for 
us to add value through a process of planning gain, regeneration  
and/or development. 
*Since 1st March 2014 and including projects in joint venture.
44
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 LAND OWNED BY  
LOCAL AUTHORITY/PUBLIC BODY
Risk-managed Development 
 — Equity light, risk managed 
approach
 — Unique route to off-
market land
 — Land improvement profit
 — Development profit
Community Improvements 
 — Inspiring public amenity
 — New public buildings
 — Jobs
 — Profit share
 — Retention of freehold
 — Long-term asset 
improvement
 — Risk-mitigated delivery
Land Planning expertise
Risk capital
Project equity
PUBLIC BODY DEVELOPER/JV
PLANNING CONSENT
Key objectives
Optimise value
Create socio-economic growth
Mitigate risk
The Public Private Partnership model
PROJECT DELIVERY
GREAT PLACES
Public Private Partnership projects (PPP)
This specialist area of development is one in which Cathedral has 
built a strong reputation and track record that complements our 
own experience of working with public sector land owners and joint 
venture partners. The PPP model (see diagram above) applies to 
development opportunities where a local authority or public sector 
body is the land owner and we act as their development partner to 
deliver a shared development vision that creates regeneration, 
new jobs, community facilities, new homes and ultimately a strong 
financial return from land improvement and/or development profits. 
The upfront costs of securing the land for development are typically 
low or deferred as the public body makes the land available for 
development at zero or negligible cost in return for the delivery of 
new public amenity space at no cost to the public purse. It allows 
us to deliver a mixed-use development that creates vital new public 
facilities for the local community whilst we realise gains from the 
delivery of the ‘private’ elements of the development e.g. residential, 
student housing and office space. With 40 per cent of brownfield 
land in the UK currently owned by local authorities, we see ample 
opportunity to extend our pipeline of PPP projects. 
Office-led development
Our portfolio of commercial office developments builds on our 
lengthy track record and reputation in this sector. Outside of 
Central London’s traditional core market, the tide has undoubtedly 
been running against office development for some years now, with 
residential development dominating the market, resulting in a very 
tight office supply. However, as demand starts to strengthen, the 
supply shortage is manifesting itself in rising rents, which in turn 
is increasing the viability of office development in the markets in 
which we are particularly active. 
We have seven office-led projects in Greater London, Cambridge and 
Dublin of which two are currently under construction. These locations 
offer competitive advantage and strong underlying fundamentals, 
namely, proximity to existing or planned transport hubs or major 
infrastructure networks, access to strong labour pools and tension 
between supply and demand. The quality of the product that we are 
known for sets us apart from the competition within these markets, 
allowing us to outperform with regard to rental values. For example, 
in Hammersmith, West London, our town centre office development, 
10 Hammersmith Grove set a new benchmark for Hammersmith rents 
at around 25 per cent ahead of the previous rental peak. 
Trading activities
Within our portfolio, we seek to balance our longer-term profit flows 
with projects that have shorter lifecycles, where we can efficiently 
add value. During the year, we fully exited from two trading projects in 
Romford and in North London. Both of these projects were acquired 
by us where the market had mispriced value, allowing us to secure 
favourable terms of trade. We added value to both of these projects 
through a process of planning improvement and refurbishment ahead 
of ultimate disposal, allowing us to maximise their value and best 
position them for a profitable exit. We will continue to look for further 
trading opportunities where our size and nimble approach affords us 
competitive advantage. We anticipate that these opportunities will 
largely arise from the banks as they continue to delever and from 
secondary trades of individual assets from within private equity real 
estate portfolios. 
45
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
INVESTMENT 
PORTFOLIO
Portfolio value
£203.30m
2014: £202.10m
Contracted rent
£13.77 m
2014: £14.14m
Number of assets held
21
2014: 24
Voids*
4.97 %
2014: 6.27%
Initial yield* in period
6.87 %
2014: 7.21%
Equivalent yield*
7.38%
2014: 7.70%
New lettings in period
£0.29m/
31,400 sq. ft.
2014: £0.43m/34,597 sq. ft.
Rate of central collections 
within 30 days
98.89%
2014: 98.69%
* Based on the core investment property assets only.
Overview
We maintain an investment portfolio in order to generate a stable 
income stream that supports the running costs of our business and 
provides an anchor to our development activities. The majority of our 
portfolio consists of convenience retail schemes (73.0 per cent of our 
portfolio) with 37.2 per cent of our portfolio located in the South East 
of England. We target higher yielding assets with strong, stable income 
streams where we can improve value through asset management and 
enhancement activities, including the potential for redevelopment. 
During the year, we have continued to proactively drive value within our 
investment portfolio. Across our portfolio and including our share of 
joint venture assets, property valuations increased by £1 1.2 million 
(2014: £4.8 million). As yields within the secondary, regional markets in 
which we operate continue to compress, we expect this improved level 
of performance to continue. Void rates across our portfolio are low at 
5.0 per cent (2014: 6.3 per cent) and income levels are at £13.8 million 
(2014: £14.1 million) as we have recycled capital within our portfolio. 
We have remained stable throughout the year as we have recycled 
capital into new assets. 
Recycling capital within our portfolio
With liquidity and competitive tension increasing in the markets within 
which we operate, we have continued to recycle capital within our 
investment portfolio, disposing of mature assets and acquiring new, 
well-positioned investment opportunities where we see the potential 
to add value. Since 1st March 2014 and including joint ventures, we 
have disposed of seven assets totalling £60.8 million and acquired six 
assets totalling £65.7 million. Two of these assets (Armagh and 
Killingworth) benefit from a major foodstore anchor and act as the 
principal convenience retail destination in their locality driving footfall 
to the units. The overall size of our investment portfolio is now at 
£203.3 million (2014: £202.1 million). 
Outlook
It appears that yields are unlikely to face any meaningful upward 
pressure in the medium-term due to the strength of investment 
demand, continued low base rates and the volume of capital seeking 
higher yielding opportunities. Hence, we anticipate positive total 
returns to continue over the coming years in the investment markets in 
which we focus. In addition, modest rental growth will continue to drive 
capital values higher. These factors combine to produce a ‘sweet spot’ 
for real estate where year on year rents are rising while yields tighten. 
This strengthening investment market provides a positive backdrop 
to our investment activities and we will continue to recycle capital 
within our portfolio in a timely manner, focussing on higher yielding 
investment assets where we can drive value growth through our asset 
enhancement and management activities. 
Top five occupiers as at 28th February 2015
Annual rent
% of
contracted
£’m rent
1. Waitrose 1.5 11.1
2. Matalan 0.7 5.2
3. J Sainsbury 0.5 3.6
4. Sports Direct 0.3 2.5
5. Wilkinson 0.3 2.1
Investment property – Key statistics
46
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Income generating properties – Like-for-like rental income received
Year ended 28th February 2015
Property
owned
throughout
the year Acquisitions Disposals
Total
rental 
income
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Investment 9,605 1,973 1,143 12,721
Development and trading 1,375 3,260 192 4,827
Joint ventures 1,258 1,953 – 3,211
12,238 7,186 1,335 20,759
Year ended 28th February 2014
Investment 9,449 3 5,533 14,985
Development and trading 1,779 682 1,203 3,664
Joint ventures 891 48 1,578 2,517
12,119 733 8,314 21,166
Completed investment portfolio – 28th February 2015
Gross rental income – tenant profile
3
4 51
2
Capital value – location profile
3
4
5
6
7 1
2
1. PLC/nationals 57.2%
2. Local traders 21.8%
3. Regional multiples 15.5%
4. FTSE 100 3.9%
5. Government 1.6%
1. South East 37.2%
2. South West 26.5%
3. North 19.0%
4. Wales 6.5%
5. Midlands 4.4%
6. Northern Ireland 4.0%
7. London 2.4%
Gross rental income – lease term profile
3
4
5
1
2
Capital value – sector analysis
3
4 51
2
1. 0 – <5 years 30.8%
2. 5 – <10 years 41.5%
3. 10 – <15 years 10.5%
4. 15 – <20 years 3.2%
5. 20 years + 14.0%
1. Retail 81.9%
2. Mixed 9.1%
3. Office 4.7%
4. Residential 3.8%
5. Industrial 0.5%
47
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
MIXED-USE REGENERATION
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
CROSS QUARTER, 
ABBEY WOOD
Acquired: May 2011
£85 million mixed-use regeneration 
scheme adjacent to Abbey Wood 
Crossrail station including:
 — an 81,000 sq. ft. foodstore, 
pre-let to Sainsbury’s
 — 220 residential units (188 units 
previously disposed of to JV 
partner/landowner)
 — 100-key hotel
Status: Sales achieved | 
Under construction
 — Construction of foodstore 
completed for Sainsbury’s 
 — Residential development under 
construction with practical 
completion due in August 2015. 
All 32 units within this phase now 
pre-sold
 — Secure delivery option for final 
parcel of hotel/residential land 
399 EDGWARE ROAD, 
LONDON
Acquired: 2005
Significant mixed-use regeneration 
project on a seven-acre site in 
North West London including:
 — an 81,000 sq. ft. Morrisons 
supermarket (pre-let and  
forward-funded)
 — 183 residential units
 — 50,000 sq. ft. of restaurant 
and retail space
Status: Sales achieved | Under 
construction | Forward-funded
 — £41.0 million funding agreement 
secured for Morrisons 
supermarket with clients of 
Aberdeen Asset Management
 — Partnership formed with 
L&Q for development of 
residential quarter
 — Construction of entire scheme 
commenced
 — Practical completion of 
Morrisons foodstore and 
retail space in Q3 2015
 — Start construction of 
residential quarter in Q3 2015
 — Tenant or owner to be 
secured for restaurant 
and retail element
 — Commence residential 
pre-sales
TELEGRAPH WORKS, 
GREENWICH
Acquired: May 2013
A two-acre site on the Greenwich 
peninsula in London with planning 
consent for a development of 256 
apartments and 16 townhouses
Status: Acqusition | 
Sales achieved
 — Partnership secured with Weston 
Homes to deliver residential 
quarter releasing an initial 
£10.2 million of profit
 — 16 townhouses to be delivered on 
completion for private sale
 — Weston Homes to commence 
construction in Q1 2016
VALENTINE’S HOUSE, ILFORD
Acquired: July 2011
55,000 sq. ft. office building 
adjacent to Ilford Crossrail station
Status: Planning submitted
 — Planning application submitted 
for a mixed-use redevelopment 
including 122 residential units 
and 20,000 sq. ft. of retail space 
 — Obtain planning permission
 — Commence construction in 
Q3 2015
 — Secure exit for delivery of 
residential element of scheme
48
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
MIXED-USE REGENERATION
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
MORDEN WHARF, 
GREENWICH
Acquired: March 2012
A 19-acre development site on the 
Greenwich Peninsula in London 
with 500 metres of Thames 
frontage. The site is cleared and 
physically vacant bar an office 
building and two warehouses 
totalling c.128,000 sq. ft.
Status: Master planning
 — Conditional development 
agreement signed with Morden 
College which would allow us to 
develop the site
 — Discussions advanced with 
nearby chemical distribution 
company, Brenntag, to remove 
development restrictions linked to 
historic chemical ‘exclusion zone’
 — Conclude negotiations 
with Brenntag 
 — Progress planning application
THE OLD VINYL FACTORY, 
HAYES
Acquired: April 2011
18-acre development site in Hayes, 
West London that will deliver 
a £250 million regeneration 
scheme including:
 — up to 642 residential units
 — 550,000 sq. ft. of new 
commercial space
 — a central pedestrianised street 
running through the development 
with cafes and restaurants
Status: Under construction | 
New lettings | Sales achieved
 — Shipping Building now 85 per 
cent let – 25,000 sq. ft. of space 
let during the year
 — Two residential sites sold for 
£7.9 million with consent for 
c.240 homes
 — Terms agreed for the sale of 
a further site for a 600-pupil 
University Technical College 
specialising in music and 
media studies
 — Progress delivery programme 
for the Record Store building 
comprising 60,000 sq. ft of 
Grade A offices and the 
Central Research Laboratory
 — Complete delivery of the 
site-wide infrastructure
 — Progress design and delivery 
of the ‘Machine Store’ and 
‘Pressing Plant’ buildings 
for mixed residential and 
commercial occupation
THE SQUARE, HALE BARNS
Acquired: March 2010
Retail-led mixed-use redevelopment 
comprising a 30,000 sq. ft. 
supermarket (pre-let to Booths), 
additional retail space and 
24 residential units
Status: Practical completion | 
Sales achieved | New lettings
 — Practical completion achieved in 
April 2015 and Booths foodstore 
now open
 — Residential apartments launched 
for sale – 22 apartments under 
offer or exchanged at capital 
values 7.8% over appraisal values
 — Retail lettings underway
 — Complete retail lettings and 
sales of apartments to fully 
exit the scheme
SHEPHERD’S BUSH MARKET, 
LONDON
Acquired: May 2010
Major regeneration of a six-acre 
site in JV with Orion Land and 
Leisure that includes the existing 
Shepherd’s Bush market. The 
mixed-use development will include:
 — up to 212 residential units
 — new retail and leisure units
 — a revitalised market at the heart 
of the scheme
Status: Under construction
 — CPO confirmed by the Secretary 
of State which will enable us to 
secure vacant possession of the 
whole site
 — Offsite temporary market 
constructed for traders to occupy 
during refurbishment of the 
current market
 — Secure delivery option for 
residential element of 
the scheme
 — Open temporary market 
for trade
 — Commence construction of 
whole scheme
49
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
MIXED-USE REGENERATION continued
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
AXIS TOWER, MANCHESTER
Planning consent secured for 
a 27-storey residential tower in 
Central Manchester comprising 
172 units in JV with Manchester-
based developer, Property 
Alliance Group
Status: Planning secured
 — Apartments launched for pre-sale 
with reservations secured on over 
70% of the units
 — Planning secured
 — Commence construction of 
the residential tower
MILL GREEN DESIGNER 
OUTLET VILLAGE, CANNOCK
A conditional land purchase 
agreement has been signed with 
landowner, Cannock Chase District 
Council, to acquire a vacant 27-acre 
site in Cannock, near Birmingham. 
Plans are being progressed for 
a dominant designer outlet village 
of c. 300,000 sq. ft. serving the 
West Midlands with up to 130 
designer outlet retail units, restaurants 
and 2,000 car parking spaces
Status: Planning submitted
 — Masterplan for development 
progressed in consultation with 
Cannock District Council and the 
local community
 — Planning application submitted
 — Secure planning consent 
 — Commence pre-let marketing 
to attract occupiers
KENSINGTON 
CHURCH STREET, LONDON
Acquired: 2011
 — One-acre gateway site in Central 
London including 14-storey office 
block, retail units and car park
 — Acquired in joint venture with 
Brockton Capital
Status: Master planning
 — Design development 
progressed in consultation with 
the Local Authority and local 
community groups
 — Income levels maintained 
across office space
 — Submit planning application 
for residential-led, mixed-use 
redevelopment
50
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
ST MARK’S SQUARE, 
BROMLEY
Acquired: September 2010
Mixed-use regeneration project next 
to Bromley South station in London 
that includes: 
 — a nine-screen cinema
 — 25,000 sq. ft. of restaurant space
 — a 130-bed hotel 
 — 200 private and affordable homes
 — a 400-space car park
Status: Acquisition | Under 
construction | Sales achieved | 
New lettings
 — Construction of entire scheme 
underway 
 — Retail and leisure elements 
almost 100 per cent pre-let to a 
number of tenants including Vue 
Entertainment Limited, Premier 
Inn, Las Iguanas, PizzaExpress, 
Nando’s and Prezzo
 — 62 apartments acquired by Moat 
Homes Limited for affordable and 
private homes
 — 64 additional apartments have 
exchanged contracts, these have 
been sold in the UK, Asia and 
Middle East
 — Continue construction process 
within time and budget – 
practical completion due 
in Q3 2016
 — Undertake phased sales 
process for 20 of the 
remaining 59 residential units
THE DEPTFORD PROJECT, 
LONDON
Acquired: May 2007
A mixed-use, PPP regeneration 
project on a two-acre site adjacent 
to Deptford station in London. 
The development includes:
 — 132 residential units
 — 2 restaurants 
 — refurbishment of a Grade II-listed 
carriage ramp which includes 
14 arches totalling 4,000 sq. ft.
 — Seven commercial units totalling 
7,200 sq. ft. 
 — a new market yard
Status: Acquisition | Under 
construction | Sales achieved 
 — Construction of entire 
scheme underway
 — 121 residential units pre-sold 
to IPG
 — Agreement for Lease exchanged 
with Peabody to manage 
8 affordable units 
 — Full scale marketing of arches to 
secure retail tenants commenced
 — Fully let the commercial space 
by Q3 2015 
 — Complete construction works 
in Q4 2015
 — Sell remaining 3 townhouses 
upon practical completion
SPIRIT OF SITTINGBOURNE
Acquired: November 2011
Major PPP regeneration project 
in Sittingbourne, Kent, that will 
completely remodel the town centre 
across two phases providing:
 — 358 residential units 
 — 28,300 sq. ft. of restaurant space
 — 42,000 sq. ft. of office space
 — 71,100 sq. ft. of other 
commercial space 
 — extensive new public realm
Status: Acquisition | 
Planning secured
 — Planning consent granted for 
Phase 1 of development
 — Contracts exchanged for delivery 
and sale of 215 apartments to 
PRS fund
 — Secure prelets and forward 
funding agreement for 
commercial elements of 
the project
 — Commence construction of 
phase 1 in Q3 2015
 
51
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP continued
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
CIRCUS STREET, BRIGHTON
Acquired: April 2007
A £100 million mixed-use PPP 
project in the centre of Brighton 
that has planning consent for:
 — 142 new homes
 — 450 student beds
 — 38,000 sq. ft. of 
commercial space
 — a new library and facility 
for Brighton university
 — a new dance studio for 
South East Dance
Status: Planning secured
 — 100% stake in project acquired 
following buy out of McLaren’s 
50% stake in March 2015
 — Planning consent secured for 
comprehensive mixed-use 
regeneration
 — Detailed design underway
 — Secure an exit for the 
student accommodation 
and commercial elements 
of the project
 — Tender and appoint main 
contractor for the project to 
start construction in Q3 2015
PRESTON BARRACKS, 
BRIGHTON
Acquired: July 2014
A £150 million PPP mixed-use 
regeneration scheme in Brighton 
that will create a new gateway to the 
north of the city. The development 
will enlarge one of Moulsecoomb 
university’s campuses providing new 
teaching and academic facilities. 
It will also deliver: 
 — 350 private houses
 — 25,000 sq. ft. of retail space 
 — a 55,000 sq. ft. commercial 
building for start-ups and SMEs
 — 500 student bed accommodation
Status: Acquisition | 
Master planning
 — Conditional contracts exchanged 
with Brighton & Hove Council to 
purchase the long leasehold for 
the site
 — Professional team engaged, 
planning/feasibility design 
underway
 — Prepare and submit planning 
application by Q4 2015
ALGARVE HOUSE, 
SOUTHWARK
Acquired: 2013
A mixed-use regeneration of 
c.225,000 sq. ft. that will 
transform the area above and 
around Southwark Underground 
station. The project would deliver 
a landmark development on a key 
site on Blackfriars Road
Status: Master planning
 — JV agreement signed with 
TfL for this landmark 
redevelopment in March 2015
 — Site assembly underway
 — Progress site assembly
 — Complete design of the 
scheme in consultation with 
the local community and 
submit planning application 
for redevelopment
PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
52
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP continued
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
HARWELL, OXFORD
Acquired: 2014
Harwell is an internationally 
renowned science campus, 
spanning 700 acres and 
established for over 50 years as a 
commercial science and research 
cluster that benefits from over 
£1 billion of world-leading scientific 
infrastructure. In joint venture 
with Harwell Oxford Partners, 
Development Securities is in 
a 50:50 partnership with two 
Government-backed agencies to 
bring forward the next chapter of 
development at Harwell. This will 
include state of the art buildings for 
commercial science agencies and 
research bodies within a new 
mixed-use community including 
several hundred new homes
Status: Planning submitted | 
Master planning
 — New building completed for 
Element Six, a DeBeers facility 
specialising in industrial diamonds
 — Planning application submitted 
for two new buildings:
 — a quasi-industrial building of 
c.10,000 sq. ft. which will be 
pre-let to known occupiers on 
the campus
 — a 40,000 sq. ft. innovation 
centre which will be built 
speculatively
 — Site rebranded and marketing 
campaign underway to raise 
profile of the site within the 
commercial research and 
science market
 — Secure planning consent 
and start construction of 
two new buildings
 — Bring forward master plan 
for first phase of residential
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
OFFICE-LED DEVELOPMENT
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
10 HAMMERSMITH GROVE
Acquired: 2009
A prime, town centre office 
development of 1 10,000 sq. ft. 
which reached practical completion 
in September 2013 and is now 
fully let
Status: New lettings
 — Public realm completed, 
repositioning this key town centre 
site and providing new public 
amenity space
 — Office space fully let, setting a 
new rental benchmark for 
Hammersmith and achieving 
capital values 39 per cent ahead 
of appraisal values
12 HAMMERSMITH GROVE
Acquired: 2009
Following on from the success 
of 10 Hammersmith Grove, 
12 Hammersmith Grove will 
complete this major town centre 
development, providing a further 
167,000 sq. ft. of prime office 
space in the heart of Hammersmith 
Status: Forward funded | 
Under construction 
 — £92.0 million forward-funding 
agreement secured with clients 
of Aberdeen Asset Management 
 — Construction underway with 
practical completion set for 
Q1 2016
 — Continue construction of the 
building to time and budget
 — Commence pre-let marketing 
campaign to secure occupiers
53
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
OFFICE-LED DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
BURLINGTON HOUSE, 
DUBLIN
Acquired: June 2014
A 172,000 sq. ft. Grade A office 
development within Dublin’s prime 
commercial core. Burlington House 
is one of the only new-build office 
developments in central Dublin, 
offering some of the best quality 
commercial space within a market 
where demand is very strong 
Status: Acquisition | 
Under construction | 
Marketing for pre-lets
 — Funding secured
 — Demolition and enabling 
works complete
 — Main contract to be signed 
imminently with practical 
completion set for Q4 2016
 — Commence pre-let marketing 
campaign to secure occupiers
BRUNEL PLACE, SLOUGH
Acquired: 2006
A 385,000 sq. ft. prime office 
development less than 100 metres 
from Slough railway station to be 
built in three separate buildings, 
which will act as the commercial 
element of the wider £400 million 
Heart of Slough town centre 
regeneration scheme 
Status: Marketing for pre-lets
 — Marketing suite opened as 
interest in commercial space 
in Slough improves
 — Secure a funding partner for 
the first phase of development
 — Commence pre-let marketing 
campaign to secure occupiers
DONNYBROOK HOUSE, 
DUBLIN
Acquired: December 2014
A vacant office property in a 
prominent location within Dublin 4 
which benefits from existing planning 
consent for refurbished office space 
and conversion of the ground floor to 
retail and leisure space
Status: Acquisition | 
Marketing for pre-lets
 — Marketing commenced to 
secure pre-lets for the office 
and retail space
 — Secure pre-lets and 
commence refurbishment works
54
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
OFFICE-LED DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
CAMBRIDGE SCIENCE PARK
A 133,000 sq. ft. development on 
the last three undeveloped plots on 
the Cambridge Science Park where 
we are acting as development 
manager for Trinity Hall College, 
Cambridge. The development 
comprises three laboratory and 
research buildings. One building 
pre-let to Takeda Cambridge Limited 
and pre-funded by Biomed and is 
now under construction
Status: Marketing for pre-lets
 — Construction of the Takeda 
building underway with practical 
completion anticipated in 
Q3 2015
 — Complete construction of 
first building
 — Secure pre-let occupiers for 
next phases of development
CAMBOURNE BUSINESS 
PARK
A 50-acre business park, situated 
six miles west of Cambridge, 
to comprise 750,000 sq. ft. of 
commercial space and a new 
settlement of 3,300 homes
Status: Master planning
 — Discussions commenced with 
local authority to promote 
the remaining 12 acres of 
undeveloped land for a 
residential-led mixed-use 
phase of development 
 — Progress planning application 
and secure consent for final 
phase of development 
55
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PORTFOLIO
TRADING
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
PERCY PLACE, DUBLIN
Acquired: October 2013
A mixed-use development in 
central Dublin including:
 — 12 new apartments
 — 4,700 sq. ft. of restaurant 
and retail space
 — 6,500 sq. ft. of office space
Status: Under construction
 — Construction of entire 
scheme underway
 — Practical completion targeted 
for Q3 2015
 — Apartments to be sold
 — Commercial space to be let 
and subsequently sold as 
an investment
CHARLEMONT CLINIC, 
DUBLIN
Acquired: December 2014
A 0.95-acre vacant development 
site in Dublin 2 next to the 
Grand Canal
Status: Acquisition | 
Planning submitted
 — Planning application prepared for 
submission for a redevelopment 
of the site to provide a 182-key 
hotel and 3 residential units 
extending to circa 2,800 sq. ft.
 — Obtain planning permission
 — Commence pre-let or pre-sale 
discussions with operators
TUBS HILL HOUSE, 
SEVENOAKS
Acquired: November 2013
A 64,800 sq. ft. office building 
acquired for £5.5 million from 
administrators acting on behalf of 
Lloyds Banking Group. The office 
building is 200 metres from 
Sevenoaks station, a prime 
commuter location with direct 
access to London
Status: Planning submitted | 
Sales achieved
 — Planning application submitted 
for a residential redevelopment
 — Sale agreed with Willmott Dixon 
for an £1 1.0 million base price 
with further potential payments 
to be realised conditional 
on planning being achieved
 — Secure planning consent and 
change of use for residential 
development and receive top 
up payment
ROBSWALL, NORTH DUBLIN
Acquired: July 2014
Part of the Robswall housing and 
apartment scheme, a 300-home 
development in Malahide, an 
affluent coastal village 15km north 
of Dublin. We acquired the freehold 
interest in 85 units (83 retained) 
that are currently let on assured 
shorthold tenancies, with occupancy 
rates at 98 per cent, generating a 
net yield of 5.5 per cent
Status: Acquisition | 
Sales achieved
 — Refurbishment works to 
residential units completed 
 — First phase of 25 apartments 
launched for sale to the 
private market
 — 13 units sold or under offer
 — Complete sale of all 
residential units
56
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
FURLONG SHOPPING 
CENTRE, RINGWOOD
Acquired: March 2003
85,000 sq. ft. retail centre 
anchored by Waitrose in an 
affluent catchment area
Key tenants: Jaeger, Hobbs, 
AGA, Fat Face, Phase Eight, 
Gerry Weber, Jones Bootmaker, 
Joules, Waterstones and 
Crew Clothing
 — New letting secured to Jones 
Bootmaker
 — Waitrose introduced John Lewis 
click and collect to their offer
 — Tenants are trading ahead of 
2014 levels
Key metric: Annual footfall 
increased by 6% year on year
 — Planning application for 
further phase of 20,000 sq. ft. 
retail and restaurant units and 
10 flats to be submitted
 — Waitrose rent review to 
be completed with 
anticipated uplift
THE KILLINGWORTH CENTRE, 
NEWCASTLE
Acquired: December 2014
The Killingworth Centre is the 
principal retail destination within 
Killingworth, a suburban commuter 
town 5 miles from Newcastle City 
Centre. The covered shopping centre 
is the principal retail and leisure 
destination for the local community, 
comprising:
 — 73,000 sq. ft. Morrisons 
foodstore (not in our ownership), 
 — 70,000 sq. ft. Matalan
 — 28 further retail units totalling 
106,000 sq. ft. which are 
let to a range of national 
and local operators 
Key tenants: Matalan, Poundworld, 
Wilkinson, Card Factory and Boots
 — Acquisition completed in 
December 2014
 — Secure tenants and deliver 
additional retail floor space 
facing the car park
 — Regear those leases with 
upcoming expiries
 — Introduce new retailers 
to broaden tenant mix
BOROUGH PARADE, 
CHIPPENHAM
Acquired: September 2014
A popular local shopping centre 
in Chippenham, near Bristol
 
Key tenants: Waitrose, New Look, 
Waterstones, Argos, Café Nero 
 — 100% occupancy maintained  — Maintain occupancy levels
 — Secure occupier for vacant 
unit (currently let on a 
temporary basis)
 — Regear those leases with 
upcoming expiries
57
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued
INVESTMENT continued
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
CROWN GLASS SHOPPING 
CENTRE, NAILSEA
Acquired: September 2009
A local shopping centre in a Bristol 
suburb anchored by Waitrose (not in 
ownership) and a mixture of national 
multiple and local retailers
Ownership includes a large car park 
with development potential for 
additional retail floorspace
Key tenants: WHSmith, 
JD Wetherspoon, Boots and HSBC
 — Conditional disposals agreed 
for two surplus sites, subject to 
planning permission 
 — Applications for 28 sheltered 
retirement apartments and 
discount foodstore, respectively, 
have been submitted
Key metric: 14% valuation 
increase
 — Complete disposal of 
retirement living and discount 
foodstore sites
 — Complete lease to coffee 
retailer to boost footfall and 
dwell time
 — Convert surplus office space 
to create 7 residential units
SWANLEY SHOPPING CENTRE
Acquired: January 2005
An 85,000 sq. ft. town centre retail 
scheme benefitting from a 100,000 
sq. ft. ASDA opposite (not in 
ownership) and conveniently located 
off the M25/M20 motorways
Key tenants: Wilkinson, Poundland, 
The Co-operative, Boots, Superdrug 
and Holland & Barrett
 — Scheme fully let during the year 
following lettings to Costa 
and Subway 
 — Refurbishment works to 
residential areas underway
Key metric: 11% valuation 
increase
 — Consider redevelopment 
options for part of the site 
including change of use from 
offices to residential
THE MALL SHOPPING 
CENTRE, ARMAGH
Acquired: April 2014
A covered shopping centre anchored 
by a 49,000 sq. ft. Sainsbury’s 
foodstore alongside 12,000 sq. ft. of 
retail space which is 95.5 per cent let
Key tenants: Dominos, SemiChem 
 — Planning permission granted for 
18,000 sq. ft. of additional retail 
space on adjoining local 
authority land
Key metric: 96% occupancy
 — Terms for acquisition of land 
and delivery of units being 
agreed with local authority
 — Secure tenants for retail 
extension
 — Commence construction 
of additional retail units
58
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT
PROPERTY OVERVIEW PROGRESS IN FY2015 FY2016 TARGET
ROYAL YORK BUILDINGS, 
BRIGHTON
Acquired: February 2014
A Grade II-listed building in the 
centre of Brighton comprising:
 — 45,600 sq. ft. youth hostel, 
let to the YMCA
 — nine serviced apartments 
 — 3,400 sq. ft. of retail and 
amenity space
 — Planning permission obtained to 
convert upper floors of building 
into residential accommodation
 — YHA refurbishment completed 
and youth hostel opened
Key metric: 16% valuation 
increase since acquisition
 — Market the residential units 
for private sale. All units to 
be sold by Q4 2015
WICK LANE WHARF, LONDON
Acquired: April 2012
1 12-unit residential block in 
Hackney Wick, East London 
of which 82 units are rental 
apartments. Held in JV 
with Realstar
 — 100% occupancy maintained 
throughout the year with a 4% 
average uplift in rental values
Key metric: 30% valuation 
increase
 — Commence disposal process 
of the 82 remaining units, 
gaining vacant possession and 
selling on the open market. 
 — Target to complete the 
disposal of these units by 
Q3 2016
CHILL FACTOR
e
, TRAFFORD
Acquired: January 2015
A 167,000 sq. ft. ski and activity 
centre in Trafford that includes the 
UK’s longest indoor real snow ski 
slope as well as restaurants and 
retail outlets. Held in JV with 
Pemberstone Investments Limited
Key tenants: Nando’s, Snow 
and Rock, Evans Cycles, 
JD Wetherspoon
 — ‘Snow’ side operating company 
trading ahead of original forecasts
 — Terms agreed with tenant to take 
one of the two vacant retail units
Key metric: 18% projected 1 year 
cash on equity return
 — Drive additional income 
through naming rights/
branding/sponsorship 
opportunities
 — Complete letting of 
vacant retail unit to 
maximise income
 
59
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 In addition, contingent consideration of £4.0 million may be payable in 
respect of two of the projects, Preston Barracks and Morden Wharf, 
dependent both on the performance of these projects and the overall 
returns generated from across the portfolio of Cathedral projects now 
acquired. The Board will continue to review the likelihood of this 
consideration becoming payable.
The Company considered various funding options for the acquisition 
and decided that funding the purchase from a mixture of shares and 
existing cash resources would be in the best interest of shareholders.
With the two Groups combined we are now starting to see additional 
benefits accrue. The partial disposal of The Telegraph Works site in 
Greenwich has been at a higher than anticipated profit and, utilising 
the Group’s banking relationships, we have been able to refinance the 
development funding at the Deptford Project at a significantly lower 
cost, saving an estimated £0.8 million over the life of the project.
In March, we restructured our €47.0 million floating rate loan notes 
and associated hedging and cash collateralisation arrangements, 
shortening the maturity of the loan from 13 to seven years. This has 
reduced our combined interest, hedging and transaction costs by 
£0.8 million per annum. The restructure is finance cost neutral in 
the year to February 2015 as previously capitalised costs have been 
written off, with annual savings of £0.8 million delivered thereafter. 
The loan restructure released cash collateral of £9.5 million. The 
renegotiation of the terms of these loan notes has helped to increase 
the efficiency of our Balance Sheet and reduce our overall finance 
costs going forward as well as releasing capital to reinvest in to 
further opportunities.
Review of the Year
The past year has been one of the most significant in the history of 
the Group. Set against a backdrop of recovery in the UK economy, 
primarily in our core market of London and the South East, together 
with improving debt markets and continued inflows of overseas capital, 
we have been able to deliver record levels of trading and development 
gains as well as announce a special dividend to distribute surplus 
capital back to shareholders.
The most significant event during the year was the acquisition of 
Cathedral Group in May 2014 for £22.9 million comprising nine 
projects in Greater London and the South East representing over 
5 million sq. ft. of residential-led mixed-use development and a 
28 strong team with considerable experience in this area.
The consideration paid was structured into a number of elements. 
The initial consideration of £20.4 million comprised:
 — £17.0 million payable upon completion of the acquisition comprising 
£1 1.0 million in cash from existing resources and £6.0 million in new 
Ordinary shares (Consideration Shares) at 233.5 pence per share, 
equating to 2.6 million shares. The Consideration Shares are locked 
up for a 42-month period (subject to limited customary exceptions) 
following completion.
 — Deferred consideration of £3.4 million which will be paid in 
instalments of £1.2 million in May 2015, comprising £0.9 million of 
loan notes and £0.3 million of cash, and £2.2 million in May 2016, 
comprising £2.1 million loan notes and £0.1 million cash.
 — £2.5 million of contingent consideration, relating to the signing of 
the sale and purchase agreement for the Preston Barracks project, 
which was paid in cash in July 2014.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
RECORD 
PERFORMANCE 
FOR THE YEAR
Marcus Shepherd
Finance Director
See page 70 for Marcus Shepherd’s biography
60
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 If joint ventures are excluded, the Group’s gearing was 36.3 per cent 
as at 28th February 2015, compared with 48.0 per cent a year earlier. 
The Group’s overall loan to value ratio, calculated as net debt divided by 
total property assets, was 34.4 per cent (2014: 44.7 per cent).
As a result of the level of profits achieved during the year, the Group 
has been able to pay a special dividend of 8.0 pence per share in April 
2015. After accounting for this, our net asset value has increased to 
276 pence per share (2014: 262 pence). Prior to the special dividend, 
the NAV per share would have been 284 pence.
Capital structure and liquidity management
The Group’s strategy for capital structure and liquidity management 
is to maintain a conservative balance between equity and debt 
appropriate to the nature and profile of our asset portfolio, achieving 
both certainty and flexibility. This takes into consideration our 
operational strategy and our intention for each asset, together with 
our expectations for the availability and cost of alternative sources 
of finance.
In particular we operate within a structure which limits the level of our 
equity exposure to any particular asset and also the level of external 
debt which can be applied.
Our cash resources and overall liquidity are managed at Group level, 
with each asset or project monitored according to its own specific 
risk profile.
All development and trading assets have business plans which include 
timetables for realisation. The Group always retains a £20.0 million 
cash buffer to ensure that delays in planned asset realisations do not 
impact upon the normal operation of the business.
Where we enter into debt facilities, secured against assets, we do so in 
a way that matches debt profile against asset business plan.
We have a number of long-term fixed rate debt facilities which are used 
to fund long-term investment assets. In respect of shorter-term trading 
assets, we fund these with asset specific debt which is structured to 
support the individual asset business plan.
Within our debt portfolio we maintain a mix of fixed and variable 
interest rates, with a preference for fixing of both larger and longer-
term borrowings so as to significantly mitigate our interest rate risk. 
For shorter maturity facilities our preference is to cap our interest 
rates exposure rather than to fix it.
The Group does not usually take development risk on large scale major 
development projects. This risk is mitigated in several ways, including 
the completed forward sale of the land and project assets through to 
the contracted sale of the completed development with appropriate 
guarantees of completion. Where direct development is undertaken 
on more modest schemes, this is funded by way of Group equity and 
medium-term bank facilities, providing the necessary flexibility of 
funding for both site assembly and construction.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are funded directly with 
equity. Any gearing is deployed within the ventures themselves.
Responsibility for the management of cash and liquidity risk rests with 
the Board. The executive team has systems in place for the monitoring 
and management of this key area of our business. Daily review of this 
area is delegated to the Finance Director. The executive team consider 
this on a weekly basis and the Board formally reviews the position at its 
meetings, which occur at least eight times per year.
In our major development activities we have continued to produce 
successful returns from our schemes in Hammersmith Grove. We 
completed the letting of 10 Hammersmith Grove and also secured 
funding of £92.0 million from Aberdeen Asset Management in 
March 2014 to fund the build out of a further 167,000 sq. ft. at 
12 Hammersmith Grove. Overall during the course of the year we 
have generated £9.4 million of profits and also repatriated our equity 
investment via the funding agreement.
In our development and trading portfolio we have successfully exited 
from two schemes which were acquired in the previous financial year. 
At Market Place Romford, after concluding our asset management 
programme, we disposed of the separate elements of this mixed-use 
town centre scheme to deliver profits of approximately £3.8 million. 
In addition, we have exited from the North London office portfolio 
during the course of the year, generating £6.3 million of profit in less 
than twelve months.
By utilising our extensive contact base within the market as well as 
our structuring skills we continue to seek out similar opportunities 
to acquire assets capable of short term value enhancement through 
either asset management or planning betterment.
In a similar vein, we have also been able to acquire a stake in a joint 
venture to own Chill Factor
e
 and the associated retail and leisure 
assets. The ability to structure this complex deal means that we are 
in a position to bring our property expertise to a previously under-
managed operational business and also produce a high level of net 
income return which will be beneficial to our Group profits.
We have continued to expand our activities in Dublin as we capitalise 
on our early mover advantage and wide contact base to source 
development, trading and investment opportunities. At 28th February 
2015 we had £26.5 million of equity invested in seven schemes. 
We continue to monitor our Euro exposure on a regular basis. Our 
current Balance Sheet equity exposure is more than offset by our 
Euro denominated loan notes. Our net foreign exchange gains during 
the year have been £2.3 million.
As highlighted above in terms of financing, we continue our efforts 
to drive efficiency in our Balance Sheet and capital strategy. The 
restructuring of historic loans, realisation of non-income producing 
legacy assets such as 399 Edgware Road and release of pledged cash 
collateral have enabled us to generate sufficient surplus cash to pay a 
special dividend of £10.0 million (8.0 pence per share) in April 2015. 
We have further refinancings of historic debt due in the current year, 
such as our £20.0 million, 1 1.0 per cent debenture which should enable 
us to drive further savings in finance costs.
As at 28th February 2015, our weighted average debt maturity was 
5.4 years (5.0 years including share of joint ventures), compared with 
6.8 years as at 28th February 2014 (6.4 years including share of 
joint ventures).
As at 28th February 2015, net debt, including share of joint ventures, 
stood at £172.5 million, a decrease from £181.9 million at 28th 
February 2014. This represents gearing of 49.8 per cent, just outside 
our normal target level of 50-60 per cent, which is as expected given 
the number of realisations during the year. As at 29th April 2015, 
net debt had increased to £208.9 million, representing gearing of 
60.3 per cent.
61
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Current bank facilities and borrowings
The Group’s bank facilities are set out in the table opposite. As at 
28th February 2015, the Group had borrowings of £205.0 million 
(2014: £221.1 million). Cash balances were £79.3 million (2014: 
£67.3 million), including amounts of £19.4 million held as restricted 
deposits, giving net debt of £125.7 million and gearing of 36.3 per cent 
(2014: £153.8 million and gearing of 48.0 per cent).
The Group’s share of net debt in joint ventures was £46.8 million 
(2014: £28.1 million); if this is aggregated with Group balances then 
net debt rises to £172.5 million and gearing to 49.8 per cent (2014: 
£181.9 million and 56.8 per cent).
During the year, the Group, together with its joint venture partners, has 
drawn new borrowings of £185.4 million. Included within this have been 
new facilities as follows:
€47.0 million refinancing of long dated Euro denominated 
loan notes
£10.2 million refinancing and extension of Element Six building at 
Harwell (JV – 25 per cent ownership)
£57.0 million acquisition of Becket House  
(JV – 15 per cent ownership)
€24.3 million acquisition of land and housing at Robswall
€35.0 million acquisition of Burlington House, Dublin  
(Associate – 20 per cent ownership)
£25.0 million refinancing of development funding at Deptford
£10.5 million acquisition of Chill Factor
e
  
(JV – 80 per cent ownership)
We have continued to expand our sources of debt to ensure that not 
only do we have a wide range of trusted debt providers but we can also 
ensure that we are not over reliant on any specific source of funding.
The Group has also repaid £106.3 million of borrowings, including joint 
ventures, as individual assets have been disposed of or facilities 
re-negotiated including:
£10.5 million disposal of North London portfolio
£9.6 million disposal of Romford
£9.0 million disposal of Llanelli
£8.0 million disposal of Bexleyheath
£5.6 million disposal of Colston Tower
£5.1 million disposal of Chorlton-cum-Hardy
£5.3 million refinancing of Airport House
€47.0 million refinancing of long dated Euro denominated 
loan notes
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
The principal tools utilised for the management of cash and liquidity are:
 — 15-month risk-analysed cash flow forecast
 — Schedule of all debt facilities and amounts drawn against them
 — Summary of net debt, including derivative instruments
 — Summary of current cash deposits including liquidity thereof
 — Formal commentary on the above by the Finance Director prepared 
for each Board meeting.
Short-term liquidity requirements are fairly predictable and are 
managed out of existing cash resources. Cash requirements are 
monitored on a weekly and monthly basis. Cash buffers are retained 
to ease cash flow management.
Medium-term liquidity is provided through a mix of the Group’s equity 
and its debt facilities. The Group has strong long-term relationships 
with a diversified range of major lenders and as such has not been 
restricted in its ability to raise new debt for investment, trading or 
development projects.
Longer-term liquidity and the Group’s capital structure are reviewed 
on a regular basis by the Directors, taking account of relevant factors 
including the real estate cycle, changes in the nature and liquidity of 
the Group’s asset portfolio, forthcoming risks and opportunities and 
the markets for debt and equity finance. This is formally considered at 
least twice a year by the Group’s Risk Committee, which reports to the 
Board, as a part of the annual strategy review and also as appropriate 
at each Board meeting.
As at 28th February 2015, restricted cash balances were £19.4 million 
(2014: £27.3 million). The decrease is as a result of investment 
property acquisitions, predominantly in the second half of the year. 
Cash management
Group cash resources are managed in accordance with our policy, 
which prioritises security, liquidity and counterparty risk ahead of 
absolute returns, with limits set by the Board in respect of minimum 
credit ratings for, and maximum exposures to, individual counterparties.
Cash may be invested across a range of instruments including instant 
access and term deposits, money market funds and commercial paper. 
As at 28th February 2015, the Group had £79.3 million of cash held 
with ten different counterparties.
62
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Group’s bank facilities
Principal financial highlights
Facility type Notes
Total
facility
£’000
Utilised
as at
28th Feb
2015
£’000
Interest 
rate Maturity
Loan to 
value ratio
Interest
1
cover ratio
Minimum
1
net worth
£’000
Loans financing longer-term assets
Term loan £3,300 £3,250 Variable 31-Jul-15 – – – 
Term loan £1,550 £1,425 Hedged 09-Aug-15 70% 120% – 
Term loan £5,000 £1,552 Variable 18-Dec-15 – – – 
Term loan 3 £14,000 £14,000 Hedged 04-Aug-16 55% 140% 100,000
Revolving credit £38,000 £29,036 Hedged 16-Dec-16 70% 105% – 
Term loan 3 £10,580 £10,580 Variable 10-Jan-20 73% 160% –
Loan notes 2 €47,000 ~£34,112 Variable 24-Apr-21 – – –
Term loan £57,565 £52,192 Fixed 12-Mar-25 80% 110% – 
Term loan £22,470 £20,536 Fixed 12-Mar-25 80% 110% – 
Debenture £20,000 £20,000 Fixed 06-Jan-16 66% – – 
Loans financing development and trading assets
Term loan 4 £7,810 £7,810 Variable 31-Mar-15 – – – 
Term loan 3 £15,610 £4,110 Variable 08-May-15 – – – 
Term loan 3 £26,000 £26,000 Hedged 31-Dec-15 60% 125% 100,000
Term loan £25,100 £3,982 Variable 19-Jun-16 53% – – 
Term loan €5,430 ~£1,297 Variable 30-Jun-16 65% – – 
Term loan 5 £9,500 £10,567 Variable 31-Mar-18 – – – 
Term loan 5 £5,500 £5,794 Variable 31-Mar-18 – – – 
Term loan €24,307 ~£16,533 Variable 01-Aug-18 73% 110% –
Term loan £24,500 – Fixed 31-Jan-19 – – – 
Term loan 3 £44,100 £26,556 Fixed 24-Feb-19 – – – 
Term loan 3 £57,000 £56,525 Variable 07-Mar-19 – – – 
Term loan 3 £10,225 £10,175 Hedged 01-Sep-21 50% 120% – 
Term loan 3 £5,295 £4,915 Variable 18-Sep-26 65% 150% – 
1 Interest cover ratios are specific to the loan and the relevant property. Minimum net worth refers to the net asset value of the Group per its latest Balance Sheet (28th February or 31st August).
2 These unsecured, variable rate loan notes are denominated in Euros, with a nominal value of €47 million. The Group has entered into an option to acquire €25,000,000 in April 2017 in order to 
limit its € exposure. An interest rate cap is also in place to limit the Group’s exposure to movements in the EURIBOR rate.
3 Loans relating to Joint Ventures represent the total loan facility and not the Group’s share.
4 This facility is currently being refinanced and will be repayable in 2018.
5 The facilities have the provision to allow interest to be rolled into the loan.
~ Represents the amount of the Group’s liability in Sterling as at the balance sheet date.
63
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Development and trading portfolio
The principal financial instrument risks in these assets are the credit 
risk of transaction counterparties. Given the nature of these assets, 
the amounts owed to the Group can be significant. These arrangements 
are monitored very closely both before contracts are exchanged as part 
of our due diligence procedures and throughout the execution period.
As at 28th February 2015 the Group had no material, unsecured 
debtors in respect of the sales of development and trading assets.
In respect of certain transactions, the Group contracts to provide funding 
for the development of either individual phases or whole schemes. The 
Directors are satisfied that the combination of the Group’s risk averse 
approach to development funding, its rigorous selection of development 
partners and its focussed and active management of each project 
provide appropriate comfort over the risks of these financial exposures.
Investment portfolio
The principal financial instrument risk in the investment portfolio is the 
credit risk implicit in potential tenant failure which, over recent years 
has been heightened in some sectors, and most notably amongst retail 
tenants. The Group maintains the portfolio under continual review. The 
portfolio is managed by local agents, with active involvement by the 
Group’s Investment Team. The Board receives at each of its meetings, 
analyses of tenant profile (including the concentration of credit risk, 
both by sector and by entity), existing and anticipated voids, overdue 
rents, and future and outstanding rent reviews, as well as a formal 
commentary by the investment team. The current profile of the 
portfolio and comments on performance in the year are set out in 
the Portfolio Review on pages 42 to 59.
Projects in partnership
The Group conducts a number of projects in partnership with others, 
where the Group brings both development expertise and funding. 
These interests are carried in a number of balance sheet categories, 
and are summarised in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
The financial instrument risks in respect of projects in partnership are 
the credit risk implicit in the financial strength and integrity of the 
operating partner, the contractual risk in the partnership arrangements 
and the operating success of the venture. The Group manages these 
risks by securing appropriate rights in each case over the use of the 
Group’s invested capital and by active participation in the joint strategic 
and operating control of the ventures.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are described in note 24 to the Group financial 
statements. The Directors ensure that these risks are appropriately 
documented and monitored, and that the risk of actual liabilities arising 
is restricted so far as is possible.
Gross committed facilities as at 29th April 2015 total £223.9 million 
with a weighted average term of 4.9 years, the earliest maturity arises 
in July 2015. Unutilised facilities are £55.3 million.
The Directors keep bank covenants (typically loan to value and interest 
cover ratios) under review, and are content with the current position. The 
aim is to agree loan to value covenants at levels which provide sufficient 
headroom for foreseeable changes in either the general market or 
specific assets. We also incorporate cure mechanisms into facility 
agreements such that we have an appropriate opportunity to restore 
covenant compliance by making cash deposits or repayment as required.
Interest rate risk and hedging
As at 28th February 2015, the summary of the Group’s interest rate 
exposure was as follows:
Excluding share of 
joint ventures
Including share of 
joint ventures
% %
Fixed rate 44.6 42.5
Floating rate, swapped into fixed 14.6 12.8
Floating rate with cap 16.4 18.5
Floating rate 24.4 26.2
The weighted average interest rate payable was 5.4 per cent, 5.7 per 
cent including joint ventures (2014: 5.8 per cent and 5.7 per cent 
respectively).
Facilities with variable rates of interest, in particular longer-term 
facilities, expose the Group to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 
This risk is constantly reviewed by the Directors who regularly consider 
the possibility and likely cost of extending interest rate hedging.
Currently a mix of fixed and variable rates is maintained in order to 
provide a degree of certainty, whilst at the same time benefitting from 
historically low absolute levels of rates. Longer-term facilities tend to 
be structured with fixed rates.
A key element in all hedging arrangements is counterparty risk, i.e. 
the potential failure of the counterparty to the transaction. The Group 
mitigates this risk by only transacting with major banks and institutions. 
There is currently no indication that any of the Group’s hedge 
counterparties may be unable to settle its obligations.
Interest rate derivatives are marked-to-market in the Balance Sheet, 
giving rise to the risk of fair value movements in the instrument and a 
consequent impact on net asset value. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
64
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 The Group’s rental income is also subject to risk of delay or non-
payment. This risk is mitigated by proactive asset management, which 
includes close monitoring of tenant resilience, and a strong focus on 
actual and potential voids.
As a consequence of the above, the Directors believe that the Group 
is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully. In addition, by 
closely monitoring the Group’s forecasts and projections, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Result for the year
Headline profit before tax for the year ended 28th February 2015 was 
£45.4 million (2014: £19.5 million) before non-recurring exceptional 
items of £10.6 million. The exceptional items relate to costs associated 
with the acquisition of Cathedral (£2.7 million) and the termination of 
the Euro denominated interest rate swap £7.9 million). After dividend 
payments of £17.0 million, the Group’s share of net assets increased 
by £25.5 million to £345.7 million (2014: £320.2 million), representing 
an increase of 14.0 pence per share to 276 pence per share (2014: 
262 pence per share).
Investment property valuation gains for the year, including our share of 
joint ventures, totalled £1 1.2 million (2014: £4.8 million). This has been 
a reflection of the gradual improvement in secondary yields as detailed 
below and discussed in more detail in the Portfolio Review on pages 
42 to 59.
Net rental income
Gross rental income from the investment portfolio for the year 
ended 28th February 2015 was £12.7 million. After direct costs of 
£2.7 million, the net rental income for the year was £10.0 million, 
which is an 18.9 per cent decrease when compared to the £12.3 
million for the previous year. A number of significant acquisitions have 
been made in the second half of the year which will provide a positive 
contribution to net rental income going forward.
The Group also earned net rental income of £2.6 million from the 
development and trading portfolio, a slight decrease from the 
£2.8 million earned in the year ended 28th February 2014.
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s operations are conducted predominantly in the UK, 
however the Group has continued to invest in the Republic of Ireland. 
The Group’s principal exposure to foreign currency movements is in its 
€47.0 million Euro-denominated loan notes and Euro-denominated 
property assets.
The details of the Group’s sensitivity to exchange rate movements are 
set out in note 18(d) to the Group financial statements.
Outside of the UK, the Group conducts business activities in 
Dublin and as such is exposed to foreign currency risk on its Euro-
denominated property investments. At 28th February 2015, the Group 
had Euro-denominated investments of £44.0 million. The Directors 
actively monitor the overall Group exposure to Euro-denominated 
assets and liabilities and the associated currency risk.
Maximum credit risk exposure
The Directors consider that the maximum credit risk exposure in each 
class of financial asset is represented by the carrying value as at 
28th February 2015.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position are set out on pages 20 
and 21, in the Chief Executive’s Statement on page 16 and Portfolio 
Review on pages 42 to 59. The financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and financial instrument risks 
are described in the Financial Review on pages 60 to 68, which also 
covers the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk. Note 18(c) to the financial statements gives further 
information about the Group’s financial instruments and hedging activities.
The Group has considerable financial resources. The Directors 
maintain a risk averse capital structure, with gearing typically in the 
range of 50-60 per cent and long average debt maturities, with 
borrowings spread across a number of lenders. The Group continues 
to enjoy access to bank finance, as demonstrated by loans arranged 
during the year. Banking covenants are regularly monitored and 
appropriate cure mechanisms are incorporated in facility documents.
The Directors are alert to potential liquidity risk in the Group’s cash 
flow forecasts. The Directors keep both short- and medium-term cash 
flows under continual review, and moderate outflows according to the 
level of this uncertainty. The model preserves a cash liquidity buffer at 
all times to protect against delays in asset realisations.
65
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
Inventory – development and trading properties
After allowing for continued investment in and development of the 
portfolio, the portfolio stood at £217.5 million at 28th February 2015 
(2014: £192.5 million). This includes £65.0 million of development 
assets following the acquisition of the Cathedral Group. Further details 
are contained within the Portfolio Review on pages 42 to 59.
Associates and joint ventures
Reflecting our strategy of working with partners and other equity 
sources, investments in associates and joint ventures has continued 
during the year. The Group’s interests in projects in partnerships are 
structured in a number of different accounting categorisations. Note 
28 to the financial statements summarises the position.
The current carrying values of associates and joint ventures are 
analysed in note 14. 
During the year we have entered into new associate and joint venture 
arrangements including:
 — Becket House in London, where we have a 15 per cent stake in 
an £87.0 million office building totalling 146,000 sq. ft. bought in 
conjunction with Proprium Capital Partners
 — A 1.7 acre development site in Dublin with planning consent for a 
172,000 sq. ft. Grade A office building. The site was acquired in joint 
venture with Colony Capital LLC and local partners for €40.5 million 
with the company having a 20 per cent share
 — The acquisition of Chill Factor
e 
and associated retail and leisure units 
for £15.5 million in joint venture with Pemberstone Investments 
Limited, with the company having an 80 per cent property 
shareholding. 
Financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are analysed in note 18 to the 
Group’s financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s Euro-denominated loan notes and the related currency 
and interest rate hedges are carried as separate instruments in the 
Balance Sheet. During the year, Sterling strengthened against the 
Euro, decreasing the Sterling liability of the loan by £4.6 million to 
£34.1 million.
Other financial assets
Other financial assets include loans to a number of joint operations and 
associate companies which reflects the way in which the Group invests 
in these activities.
The largest loan is to Northpoint Developments Limited which, together 
with accrued interest at 28th February 2015, totals £18.2 million (2014: 
£17.0 million). 
Development and trading profits
During the year under review, across its direct and joint venture 
holdings, the Group made development and trading profits of 
£45.7 million (2014: £27.0 million). 
Development and trading profits can be analysed as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Development and trading segment result 43.8 16.4
Share of results of joint ventures (0.4) 7.5
Provision against legacy assets – 0.2
Other income 0.4 –
Interest from financial asset 1.9 –
Performance fee – 2.9
45.7 27.0
Further details of development and trading activities can be found in 
the Portfolio Review on pages 42 to 59.
Operating costs
Operating costs of £17.9 million for the year were 27.4 per cent 
ahead of the equivalent figure of £14.0 million for the previous year. 
This reflects the operating costs of the Cathedral Group which was 
acquired in May 2014.
Net finance costs
Finance costs for the year were £12.8 million, compared to 
£13.5 million for the previous year. This reflects a higher amount of 
interest being capitalised during the last year on development and 
trading properties net of the impact of the restructure of the Euro 
denominated loan notes.
Investment portfolio
During the course of the year, the investment property portfolio has 
increased to £203.3 million from £202.1 million at 28th February 
2014. The Group disposed of a number of investment assets during 
the year but following a period of reinvestment, the Group has acquired 
£47.6 million of new investment property assets.
At 28th February 2015, the valuation of the investment property 
portfolio increased by £1 1.2 million (2014: increase of £4.8 million), 
including our investment properties held under joint venture.
Further details of acquisitions, disposals and valuation movements are 
set out in note 10 to the financial statements, and further analyses of 
the performance and management of the portfolio are given in the 
Portfolio Review on pages 42 to 59.
66
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Cash and borrowings
Details of the Group’s borrowings and cash management are set out in 
note 18(b) and (d) to the financial statements and in the Financial 
Review on pages 62 to 64.
2015 2014
Group net debt and gearing
Gross debt £m (205.0) (221.1)
Cash and cash equivalents £m 79.3 67.3
Net debt £m (125.7) (153.8)
Net assets £m 346.4 320.3
Gearing % 36.3 48.0
Weighted average debt maturity years 5.4 6.8
Weighted average interest rate % 5.4 5.8
Including joint ventures:
Share of net debt in joint ventures £m (46.8) (28.1)
Gearing % 49.8 56.8
Weighted average debt maturity years 5.0 6.4
Weighted average interest rate % 5.7 5.7
The gross debt figure includes the €47.0 million 2021 Unsecured 
Subordinated Loan Note facility, stated in Sterling at the current value 
of £34.1 million (2014: £38.7 million, 2027 Loan Notes).
Loan to value gearing
Net debt expressed as a proportion of total property assets (including 
shares of properties and net debt in all projects in partnerships) was 
34.4 per cent (2014: 44.7 per cent).
Taxation
The net current tax charge in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 
was £4.1 million, principally in respect of tax on trading profits in 
excess of group relief. The Group has significant potential deferred tax 
asset balances and the Directors previously restricted recognition to 
the amount of corresponding deferred tax liabilities, as uncertain 
market conditions did not offer sufficient probability of profits in the 
foreseeable future. This year, however, the Group has recognised an 
additional deferred tax charge of £0.3 million on certain profits 
projected in future accounting periods which can be forecast with a 
high enough degree of certainty. The Group’s deferred tax treatment 
falls within the criteria of IAS 12.
In conjunction with our overall business strategy, the Group pursues 
a tax strategy that is principled, transparent and sustainable in the 
long-term. The Group has established ethics regarding its tax policy 
which have been ratified by the Board; these include the following 
key points:
 — A commitment to ensure full compliance with all statutory obligations 
including full disclosure to all relevant tax authorities
 — Any tax planning strategy entered into is done after full 
consideration of the risks and those findings are recorded in any 
relevant structuring document
 — The maintenance of good relationships with tax authorities and the 
interaction between tax planning and the Group’s wider corporate 
reputation
 — Management of tax affairs in a manner that seeks to maximise 
shareholder value whilst operating within the parameters of existing 
tax legislation.
The Group has certain operations in jurisdictions that have been 
dictated to us by our majority joint venture partners and under most 
circumstances the Group does not enjoy any fiscal advantage of being 
in these jurisdictions. The Group has also recently undertaken a 
Transfer Pricing review to ensure that all cross-border services 
provided are conducted at the appropriate arm’s length market rate.
The suitability of our tax strategy is kept under constant review to 
ensure compliance with the fiscal needs of the Group and constant 
evolution of tax legislation.
Dividends
On 24th February 2015 the Board approved the payment of a special 
dividend of 8.00 pence per share to be paid on 7th April 2015 to 
Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
6th March 2015.
The Board will recommend to shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 14th July 2015 a final dividend of 3.5 pence per share 
(2014: 3.2 pence per share) to be paid on 20th August 2015 to 
shareholders on the register on 24th July 2015. This final dividend, 
amounting to £4.4 million, has not been included as a liability at 28th 
February 2015, in accordance with IFRS. Including the 8.0 pence per 
share special dividend, total dividend for the year is 13.9 pence per 
share (2014: 5.6 pence per share).
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year represented earnings 
of 26.8 pence (2014: 14.9 pence). After removing the unrealised 
revaluation of the investment portfolio, the gain on the disposal of 
investment properties and impairment of development and trading 
properties, the EPRA adjusted earnings per share was 23.9 pence 
(2014: 7.8 pence).
67
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
68
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Performance measures
Key performance indicators are set out below:
2015 2014
Net asset value movement % 8.1 4.4
Gearing % 36.3 48.0
Loan to value gearing % 34.4 44.7
Development and trading gains £m 45.7 27.0
Total shareholder return % 10.0 6.0
Five year summary
2015 2014 2013 2012† 2010
Revenue £m 203.7 79.3 99.7 80.0 44.4
Profit/(loss) before taxation £m 34.8 19.5 0.8 (10.2) 2.6
Net assets £m 346.4 320.3 306.7 313.2 333.1
Earnings/(loss) per share Pence 26.8 14.9 2.0 (10.3) 1.7
EPRA earnings/(loss) per share Pence 23.9 7.8 10.5 (8.2) (11.8)
Net assets per share Pence 276 262 251 256 272
EPRA net assets per share Pence 276 269 260 262 276
† 14-month period.
The Strategic Report from page 1 to 68 was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Marcus Shepherd
Finance Director
29th April 2015 69
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
The Nomination Committee and the Board were unanimous that 
Matthew and Richard have the required skills, experience, credibility 
and knowledge of the Company, and the industry, to successfully 
shape the future direction of the Company and drive the business 
forward. To facilitate this transition, Michael has agreed to remain as a 
Non-executive Director from 14th July 2015 until 29th February 2016. 
As Chairman, it is my strong belief, and one that is echoed by the 
Board, that an overriding culture of good governance and transparency, 
beginning with the Board and continuing throughout the Group and its 
business practices, will underpin the future prosperity of the Company.
The Code contains a number of additional requirements applicable 
to FTSE 350 companies. At the date of this Report the Company is not 
a member of the FTSE 350 indices, however, to further demonstrate 
its support of the principles of good corporate governance, and as we 
act in shareholders’ interests, it is right that shareholders have the 
opportunity to vote on the re-election of every Director on an annual 
basis. The Board has therefore voluntarily implemented provision B.7.1 
of the Code requiring all Directors to seek re-election by shareholders 
on an annual basis.
The Company has built on the 2014 Report with the aim of providing 
clear and transparent information to our stakeholders. The Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 72 to 79 sets out in more detail how the 
Company has applied the main provisions of the Code.
David Jenkins
Chairman
Development Securities PLC
Dear Shareholder,
As your Chairman, I am pleased to present Development Securities 
PLC’s Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28th February 
2015. It is my responsibility to ensure that your Board operates 
efficiently, effectively and transparently, and seeks to uphold high 
standards of good corporate governance that underpin the values of 
the Company. The Board is accountable to you, our shareholders, for 
implementing a framework of good governance and we are committed to 
discharging our duties in your best interests whilst, at the same time, 
understanding the obligations we have to our various stakeholders. 
The principal corporate governance rules which applied to the 
Company in the year under review were the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code).
As I discuss in my statement on page 12, the year ended 28th 
February 2015 and the current year have been, and will continue 
to be, years of significant change for the Board. Richard Upton and 
Barry Bennett joined the Board in an Executive and a Non-executive 
capacity respectively on the acquisition of Cathedral in May 2014. 
Julian Barwick resigned from the Board with effect from 1st March 
2015, however he still continues to work for the business, and, after 
21 years of service on the Board, Michael Marx announced his 
decision to step down as Chief Executive Officer at the conclusion 
of the forthcoming 2015 AGM. 
I believe that it is critically important for the future success and 
growth of the business that we have a Board in place with the ability 
and experience to lead the Company forward through the significant 
changes that have taken place in 2014/15 and on to the next stage 
of its evolution. I was therefore delighted that Matthew Weiner and 
Richard Upton agreed to accept the roles of Chief Executive Officer 
and Deputy Chief Executive Officer respectively. These roles will 
commence when Michael stands down as Chief Executive Officer 
after the 2015 AGM. 
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
‘ DE LI V E R I NG F I R S T 
CLASS PERFORMANCE 
AND MAXIMISING 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE WITHIN A 
TRANSPARENT AND 
ROBUST CULTURE’
David Jenkins
Chairman
See page 70 for David Jenkins’ biography 1
2
3
4
70
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THE RIGHT TEAM 
TO DELIVER OUR 
STRATEGY
1. David Jenkins – Non-executive Chairman
Appointed: 1st February 2007
Period of service on the Board: 8 years, 3 months
Experience: David is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales. He was previously a partner in Deloitte LLP, 
London, and was managing partner of their Real Estate Practice until 
his retirement in May 2004. David is currently Senior Independent 
Director of Mitie Group PLC and Non-executive Director of Renewable 
Energy Systems Holdings Ltd. He is also advisor to several companies.
Committees: Chairman of the Nomination Committee, member of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees.
2. Michael Marx – Chief Executive
Appointed: 1st September 1994
Period of service on the Board: 20 years, 8 months
Experience: Michael is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales and was a Member of the UK Listing Authority 
Advisory Committee 2004 to 2007. He is Non-executive Chairman of 
Nationwide Accident Repair Services PLC. 
Michael confirmed his intention to stand down as Chief Executive of the 
Company at the close of the 2015 AGM, and will assume the position of 
Non-executive Director until 29th February 2016. 
Committees: Member of the Nomination Committee.
3. Marcus Shepherd – Finance Director
Appointed: 18th February 2013
Period of service on the Board: 2 years, 2 months
Experience: Marcus is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. His previous roles included Finance 
Director (Global Real Estate) at Aviva Investors, Chief Financial Officer 
(Europe) for Valad Property Group and Group Finance Director of 
Teesland PLC.
4. Matthew Weiner – Executive Director
Appointed: 18th March 2004
Period of service on the Board: 1 1 years, 1 month
Experience: Matthew is a Member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. He joined Development Securities PLC in 
November 2000 as Director of Investments. 
As announced on 24th February 2015, Matthew will be appointed 
Chief Executive of the Company from the close of the 2015 AGM. 5
6
7
8
71
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
5. Richard Upton – Executive Director
Appointed: 19th May 2014
Period of service on the Board: 1 1 months
Experience: Richard was the founder and Chief Executive Officer of the 
specialist regeneration real estate developer Cathedral Group, which was 
acquired by Development Securities PLC in May 2014. He was previously 
a founding director of Mount Anvil, a leading London house builder, and is 
a member of the London Advisory Committee for English Heritage. 
As announced on 24th February 2015, Richard will become Deputy 
Chief Executive of the Company at the close of the 2015 AGM.
6. Sarah Bates – Non-executive Director, Senior
Independent Director
Appointed: 15th January 2010
Period of service on the Board: 5 years, 3 months
Experience: Sarah is currently Chairman of St James’s Place PLC, 
JP Morgan American Investment Trust plc and Witan Pacific 
Investment Trust plc; she is a Non-executive Director of Polar Capital 
Technology Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc and Worldwide 
Healthcare Trust Plc. Sarah sits on, or is advisor to, various pension 
fund and charitable investment committees including that of the 
Universities Superannuation Scheme.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
7. Nick Thomlinson – Non-executive Director
Appointed: 3rd January 2012
Period of service on the Board: 3 years, 4 months
Experience: Nick is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. He is a former senior partner and Chairman of the Knight 
Frank Group.
Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member 
of the Audit Committee.
8. Barry Bennett – Non-executive Director
Appointed: 19th May 2014
Period of service on the Board: 1 1 months
Experience: Barry is a chartered accountant with significant experience 
in the financial and property sectors, and is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in Ireland. Barry was previously a founding director 
of Mount Anvil, a London house builder, and in 2002 founded specialist 
regeneration real estate developer Cathedral Group with Richard Upton. 72
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
provided with regular announcements of the Group’s significant 
transactions to enhance shareholder understanding of the Company’s 
execution of its business strategy.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-executive 
Directors are available at any time to meet with shareholders. The role of 
Senior Independent Director continues to be performed by Sarah Bates.
The Company ensures that the Board has an up to date perspective 
on the views and opinions of shareholders and the investment market. 
An investor relations report summarising share price performance 
compared to the market, changes to the shareholder register and 
feedback from shareholders, is produced for each Board meeting.
The Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) provides an 
opportunity to respond to shareholders’ questions, and the information 
necessary for informed participation is made available with as much 
notice as possible. Directors are introduced to shareholders at the 
AGM, including the identification of Non-executives and Committee 
Chairs. More information regarding the 2015 AGM, including the 
resolutions being put to the meeting, can be found on pages 99 to 101. 
The Company’s website is updated at the same time as the Regulated 
Information Service, to provide additional information dissemination 
for shareholders. Shareholders are also invited to free subscription of 
the Company’s e-mail news alert service on the Company’s website.
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders 
for the long-term success of the Company and, in this capacity, has 
put in place a formal schedule of reserved matters which require its 
approval that include, but are not limited to, those set out below:
Matters Reserved for the Board
 — strategy;
 — executive performance and retention;
 — remuneration and succession;
 — financial performance;
 — the issue of any securities;
 — significant borrowing facilities;
 — development opportunities;
 — dividend policy;
 — authorisation of significant transactions over a certain threshold;
 — investment portfolio acquisitions and disposals;
 — corporate reputation and communication; and
 — internal control and risk management and the Board’s 
own effectiveness.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
UK Corporate Governance Code
Development Securities PLC Ordinary shares are listed on the Official 
List of the UK Listing Authority and, as such, the Company is required 
to state whether it has complied with the provisions contained within 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code).
The Board confirms that in its view the Company has applied the main 
principles and has complied with all of the provisions set out in the 
Code during the financial year under review with the exception of 
Code provision B.2.1 regarding the composition of the Nomination 
Committee; further details are provided on page 78. The full Code 
can be found at www.frc.org.uk.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the 
management of the Company is detailed in the chart above.
Stakeholders
Directors engage in constructive dialogue between the Company and 
its stakeholders, which they believe contributes to investor confidence. 
The Company’s governance principles have been, and will continue to 
be, kept under review as the Directors believe that a sound corporate 
governance framework is key to achieving the Company’s objectives 
and discharging its legal and regulatory responsibilities. The Company 
continues to maximise shareholder value creation whilst at the same 
time appropriately managing risks.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is a high priority for the Board. 
The Executive Directors have regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders, where a wide range of issues are discussed within 
the constraints of the information already known to the market. 
In particular, in 2014/15, discussions were held with institutional 
shareholders around the acquisition of Cathedral and the changes 
to Executive Directors. The Company’s annual results are 
also presented to institutional shareholders and analysts. A copy 
of the presentation is available on the Company’s website,  
www.developmentsecurities.com.
Copies of key sell-side broker analysts’ notes on the Company are 
circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of non-attributable 
shareholder comments collated by the Company’s joint brokers, 
financial PR advisors and other corporate advisory providers, which 
assist the Board in developing their understanding of the views of 
major shareholders. Additional feedback is regularly sought by financial 
PR advisors. From time to time, the Company arranges for key 
shareholders to visit a number of development sites, accompanied 
by Executive Directors. The Board also ensures that investors are 
Audit Committee
Risk Committee Internal Audit
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Approvals Committee
Investment Board  
& Development Board
The Board
Stakeholders
Governance structure 73
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
At the beginning of the financial year, the Board consisted of four 
Executive Directors, a Non-executive Chairman and two Independent 
Non-executive Directors. On 19th May 2014, subsequent to the 
acquisition of Cathedral, Richard Upton joined the Board as an Executive 
Director and Barry Bennett joined the Board as a Non-executive Director. 
Julian Barwick resigned as an Executive Director of the Company with 
effect from close of business on 28th February 2015. Julian continues 
to work with the Company as an employee. The Company announced 
on 24th February 2015 that Michael Marx would be stepping down as 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from the close of 
the AGM scheduled to be held on 14th July 2015. Michael will continue 
as a Director of the Company in a Non-executive capacity until he 
stands down from the Board on 29th February 2016. It was further 
announced on 24th February 2015 that Matthew Weiner would be 
appointed to the position of Chief Executive Officer to replace Michael, 
and that Richard Upton would be appointed Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer with effect from the close of the 2015 AGM. Biographical 
information for the Directors in office at the date of this Report is set 
out on pages 70 and 71.
The Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, 
who is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board and 
ensuring its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive, who is responsible 
for the running of the Company’s business and the successful planning 
and implementation of the business strategy. The Chairman and Chief 
Executive are in regular contact to discuss current material matters. 
The roles and remit of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are set 
out in writing and agreed by the Board. There were no significant 
changes to the Chairman’s other commitments during the year. 
The Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors bring external perspectives and insight 
to the deliberations of the Board and its Committees, providing a 
wide range of knowledge and business experience from other sectors 
and businesses. They play an important role in the formulation and 
progression of the Board’s agreed strategy, and review and monitor the 
performance of the executive management in the implementation of 
this strategy. The Non-executive Directors also perform a valued role 
by challenging aspects of executive decisions to produce a considered 
and independent outcome to Board deliberations, ensuring that no one 
individual has unfettered decision-making powers. 
The independence of each Non-executive Director has been assessed 
during the year, in line with the independence criteria contained within 
provision B.1.1 of the Code. The Company considers all the Non-
executive Directors to be independent with the exception of Barry 
Bennett who was the co-founder of the Cathedral Group. The 
Chairman was considered independent on appointment. The current 
ratio of Executive and Independent Non-executive Directors is 
permissible for a smaller company under Code provision B.1.2.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Board takes into account the size 
and complexity of the Group, and internal control measures employed, 
to determine those formal matters reserved to the Board and those 
delegated to its various Committees or the Executive Directors.
The Board met formally nine times during the year. One of these 
meetings was entirely focussed on the strategy of the business. 
An additional eight meetings were called at short notice for specific 
project approval, and did not necessarily require full attendance, 
although all Directors were given the opportunity to attend, or 
comment on each proposal. Where a Director is unable to participate 
in a meeting either in person or remotely, the Chairman will solicit 
their views on key items of business ahead of time, in order that 
these can be presented at the meeting and can influence the 
debate. The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met on one 
occasion during the year without Executive Directors in attendance. 
The Non-executive Directors also met on one occasion during the 
year without the Executive Directors or Chairman present. 
Key areas of focus during the year
The year ended 28th February 2015 was one of considerable change 
for the Company. The Board focussed a significant amount of time on 
the Cathedral acquisition and its subsequent smooth integration into 
the Group. This was assisted by Richard Upton and Barry Bennett 
joining the Board as detailed below. Other areas of focus included 
reviewing and approving property investment and development 
acquisitions and disposals, Board succession planning, an evaluation 
of the Board’s effectiveness, financial review and planning, reviewing 
analyst reports and shareholder feedback, as well as approving an 
interim and special dividend and recommending a final dividend to 
shareholders. An additional separate meeting devoted entirely to 
business strategy was also convened during the year.
Board composition 
Board composition as at 28th February 2015
3
1
4
2
1
2
3
4
Composition of the Board
1. Chairman 1
2. Executive Directors 4
3 .  In d ep en d en t 
Non-executive Directors 2
4 . No n - e x ec u t i v e D i r ec t o r s 
(not independent) 1
Period of Service on the Board
1. Under 3 years 3
2. 3-6 years 2
3. 6-9 years 1
4. 9 years+ 2
Details of gender diversity on the Board can be found on page 101. 74
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary 
and may seek independent professional advice as necessary, at the 
Company’s expense, and subject to the consent of the Chairman. 
Upon election, or re-election, Non-executive Directors are invited 
to serve for three-year fixed terms, subject to annual re-election 
by shareholders. All Non-executive Directors have confirmed that 
they have sufficient time to dedicate to their role. The terms of their 
appointment are available from the Company Secretary and details 
of the Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are detailed 
in the Remuneration Report on page 88.
Directors undergo a formal induction process on joining the Company and 
receive appropriate training whilst in office. The Chairman agrees with 
each Director their training and development needs as and when required.
Board Committees
The Board delegates responsibility for certain matters to Standing 
Committees, which report back to the Board. These Committees 
operate within defined terms of reference, as determined by the 
Board. Board Committee terms of reference are available upon 
request from the Company Secretary and are also published on the 
Company’s website, www.developmentsecurities.com. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to each of the Committees.
Board and Committee attendance
The following table sets out the attendance of the Directors at the 
scheduled meetings of the Board and the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees held during the financial year under review.
Number of meetings
Board
Audit  
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
D S Jenkins 9/9 3/3 2/2 4/5
M H Marx 9/9 – 1/2 –
M O Shepherd 9/9 – – –
C J Barwick 9/9 – – –
R Upton
1
7/7 – – –
M S Weiner 9/9 – – –
S C Bates 9/9 3/3 2/2 5/5
N H Thomlinson 9/9 3/3 – 5/5
B Bennett
1
6/7 – – –
1
R Upton and B Bennett joined the Board on 19th May 2014.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
The Senior Independent Director
Sarah Bates is currently, and has throughout the year been, the Senior 
Independent Director. Shareholders can bring matters to her attention 
if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal 
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or if 
these channels are not deemed appropriate. The Senior Independent 
Director is responsible for leading the Non-executive Directors in the 
annual performance evaluation of the Chairman as well as acting as a 
sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for 
other Directors where necessary.
The Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible, under direction from the 
Chairman, for ensuring the appropriate information flows to the 
Board and its Committees to facilitate their discussions and allow fully 
informed decisions to be made. The Company Secretary also ensures 
the Non-executive Directors have access to the senior management 
where required, as well as ensuring an appropriate induction process 
and ongoing training is in place for Executive and Non-executive 
Directors, and facilitating the Board evaluation process set out below. 
The Company Secretary advises the Board and its Committees on all 
governance matters. Helen Ratsey stood down from the position of 
Company Secretary on 1st September 2014. Marcus Shepherd took 
the position of interim Company Secretary from 1st September to 
1 1th November 2014. Chris Barton was appointed Company Secretary 
on 1 1th November 2014.
Board effectiveness
As in previous years, the Board has undertaken a formal performance 
evaluation of the Board as a whole and its Committees to ensure they 
continue to be effective, and that individual Directors demonstrate 
commitment to their respective roles and have sufficient time to meet 
their commitment to the Company. The Board believes that annual 
evaluations are helpful and provide a valuable opportunity for 
continuous improvement. Consideration was given to whether the 
evaluation should be externally facilitated. The Board maintained that 
the current arrangements were appropriate, but will keep this area 
under review. Sarah Bates chaired a meeting of the Non-executive 
Directors without the Chairman or Executive Directors present, at 
which the performance of the Chairman was reviewed. The outcome 
was then discussed by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director. 
The evaluation was carried out through a detailed questionnaire, 
the responses to which were collated by the Company Secretary. 
The evaluation focussed on the Board as a whole, its composition 
and working, as well as on the Committees and on individual Directors. 
The responses were considered by the Chairman, or the Senior 
Independent Director in relation to the Chairman’s performance. 
Suggestions for improvements were discussed by the Board and, 
where considered relevant, have been implemented as detailed below. 
The 2014 Board evaluation highlighted the potential benefit of 
adding an additional Non-executive Director to the Board. Barry 
Bennett was appointed to the Board as a new Non-executive Director 
on 19th May 2014 as part of the Cathedral acquisition. No major 
issues were identified in the 2015 evaluation which focussed on 
Company strategy, as well as highlighting that an additional Non-
executive Director may be beneficial. In addition to Michael Marx 
taking the position of Non-executive Director on 15th July 2015, the 
recruitment of an additional ‘independent’ Non-executive Director 
will be under consideration by the Board during the year.  75
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Annual activities of the Audit Committee
The Committee met three times during the year. One meeting was held 
to agree the external audit terms of engagement, the auditors’ scope 
and proposed approach, and the fees of the annual audit. As is standard 
each year, two of the meetings take place prior to the issue of the 
preliminary full-year and interim results in order to review audit 
recommendations and consider any significant issues arising from 
the audit and review processes. The Committee also reviews the 
performance of the internal and external auditors.
Significant judgements
Before recommending the interim and annual financial statements 
to the Board for approval, the Committee considered, amongst other 
things, the following matters and significant judgements:
 — Direct property investments, the development and trading portfolios 
and the valuation of the investment properties: The Committee 
challenged executive management in respect of both independent 
external valuations and Directors’ valuations across the entire 
property portfolio. In addition, the Committee challenged the 
external auditors in respect of the work they had conducted in 
connection with the internal and external valuations. The Committee 
was satisfied that there were no significant areas of contention and 
that the valuation procedures and methodologies used and the 
valuations themselves were appropriate. In respect of impairment 
charges recognised, the Committee was satisfied that, where 
applicable, the written down values reflected the assets’ net 
realisable value.
 — Indirect property investments, accounting for investments in property 
secured loans and recoverability of financial assets: The Committee 
again discussed with executive management the valuation and 
recoverability of these assets along with the external auditor’s as to 
the work they had conducted. As a result, the Committee concluded 
that the assets were appropriately recognised in the Group’s 
financial statements. 
 — Other reporting matters: Internal controls environment, management 
oversight of indirect property investments and accounting and 
regulatory developments.
One of the significant requirements of the Code is that the Board 
confirms that the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy. The task of assessing this has been delegated 
to the Audit Committee. With this in mind, the Committee considered 
management’s analysis and were content to confirm and recommend 
this to the Board. The Board’s statement to this effect is set out below 
in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility on page 79.
The Committee also met without Executive Directors present and  
Sarah Bates, as Chairman of the Committee, met separately with the  
external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and internal auditors, 
HW Fisher & Company. 
The non-audit services policy as adopted by the Committee during 
the last financial year was adhered to throughout the year, providing 
additional control measures around the instruction of the auditors to 
undertake non-audit work. The policy requires that all non-audit fee 
work be reported to the Audit Committee and that all non-audit fee 
work falling into certain categories and above certain thresholds be 
reported prior to the work being undertaken as detailed below:
 — Up to £25,000: Approval required by the Finance Director, or 
Chief Executive in his absence;
 — In excess of £25,000 and up to £100,000: Approval required by the 
Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee; and
 — In excess of £100,000: Approval required from the full 
Audit Committee. 
Audit Committee composition
The Audit Committee comprises the following Directors:
Director
Sarah Bates Chairman
David Jenkins
Nick Thomlinson
The Committee consists of the two independent Non-executive 
Directors, and the Company’s Chairman David Jenkins, who was 
considered independent on appointment. The Board has determined 
that David Jenkins, as a qualified accountant with considerable 
experience, has significant ‘recent and relevant financial experience’ 
for the purposes of the Code. The Company’s Chief Executive, Finance 
Director and Financial Controller attend the Audit Committee meetings 
by invitation, as does Barry Bennett, a Non-executive Director who is 
also a chartered accountant. To help the Committee review and 
challenge the integrity of the Company’s financial reporting, 
representatives from the external and internal auditors attend 
appropriate parts of the meetings.
The Audit Committee’s principal role as set out in its terms of reference 
includes:
 — monitoring the integrity of the Company’s financial statements; 
 — reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls;
 — reviewing the internal control and risk management systems;
 — assessing the performance and independence of the 
external auditors;
 — selecting the external auditor and making appropriate 
recommendations through the Board to permit shareholder 
consideration at the Annual General Meeting;
 — assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process;
 — acting as a conduit between the Board and the external and 
internal auditors;
 — reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities; 
 — monitoring the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
audit function; and
 — reviewing any incidents of whistleblowing occurring within the Group 
and ensuring adequate review, investigation and conclusion.
Audit Committee
Sarah Bates
Chairman of the Audit Committee
“ With the continued growth of the business during the year, 
the Committee’s role in advising the Board as to the integrity 
of the Group’s audit, assurance and risk processes is key to 
delivering long-term, sustainable value to shareholders.” 76
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Internal auditors
HW Fisher & Company was appointed as the Company’s internal 
auditors in 2010. The Committee reviews the internal auditor’s plan 
for the year and makes amendments as required. In this capacity, 
HW Fisher & Company report to the Audit Committee. They attend 
meetings of the Risk Committee, and from these meetings, and 
discussions with management, they identify areas of potential 
weakness or possible improvement in the Group’s financial controls. 
They propose an agenda of work to the Audit Committee, at least 
annually, and devise and implement appropriate work programmes, 
independently of management. During the year, internal audits were 
carried out on a number of business processes, including:
 — Subsidiary governance;
 — High level review of the existing bonus schemes;
 — Gifts and entertaining; and
 — Consumer Credit Licences
These reviews and the implementation of the recommendations arising 
from them are overseen by the Audit Committee.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control for the year ended 28th February 2015, and to the 
date of this Report, and considers that there is a sound system of 
internal control which accords with the Turnbull Report, ‘Internal 
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’. The Board is 
satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the Group’s significant risks including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and that it is regularly reviewed.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the current and projected financial 
position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future 
trading performance. As part of the review, the Directors considered 
the Group’s cash balances, its debt maturity profile and guarantees 
and indemnities given. After making enquiries, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
forseeable future. Accordingly they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Company’s going concern statement can be found in the Financial 
Review on page 65 and is incorporated here by reference.
Sarah Bates
Chairman of the Audit Committee
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
In addition, the policy prohibits the auditors from being considered for 
providing the following services: internal audit; bookkeeping services; 
and the design and implementation of financial information systems.
An analysis of the non-audit fees can be found in note 4 to the 
financial statements. The Committee scrutinises these payments, but 
recognises that due to the nature of the business and complexity of 
deals there are certain assurance and advisory services that may be 
best performed by the external auditors as a result of their unique 
knowledge of the Company, without compromising their independence 
or objectivity. The total value paid during the year for tax advice and 
planning services amounted to £228,000, and advice and services in 
relation to the acquisition of Cathedral amounted to £124,000 and 
other sundry services of £18,000. 
It is within the Committee’s remit to recommend the appointment 
of the external auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Additional 
scrutiny was placed on the independence and objectivity of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. In accordance with professional and 
regulatory standards, the lead audit partner is rotated at least every 
five years in order to protect audit independence and objectivity. Julian 
Jenkins was the lead audit partner for the financial year under review 
and has been lead audit partner for the Company for two years. The 
Audit Committee was satisfied as to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s 
independence and effectiveness and, following a review of their tenure, 
quality and fees, recommended their re-appointment as auditors. 
This was subsequently ratified by the Board and accordingly the 
re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has been the independent auditor 
of Development Securities PLC since 2008, which is the last time 
the audit went out to tender.
Internal control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control to safeguard 
shareholders’ investments and protect the Company’s assets. The 
Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for determining the 
nature and extent of the significant risks the Company is willing to 
take in achieving its strategic objectives. The operational, financial 
and compliance risk controls are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Board, through the Risk Committee, has 
conducted a thorough risk assessment of the business, identifying risks, 
their potential impact, likelihood of occurrence, controls and mitigating 
actions, together with early warning systems and further actions which 
need to be implemented. Detailed below is a description of the Group’s 
internal control and risk management used in the process of preparing 
the Consolidated financial statements. The key features of the system 
of internal control include:
 — a comprehensive system of financial reporting and business 
planning with appropriate sensitivity analysis;
 — a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no material 
commitments are entered into without competent and 
extensive approval;
 — a defined schedule of matters reserved for the Board and clear 
defined roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive;
 — an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority;
 — formal documentation procedures;
 — the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of 
the day to day operations, including regular meetings with senior 
management to review all operational aspects of the business and 
risk management systems;
 — a review of the Group strategy and progress on developments at 
each scheduled Board meeting;
 — a comprehensive insurance programme; and
 — a formal whistleblowing policy.  77
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Annual activities of the Risk Committee
The Committee meets quarterly during the year to ensure that 
the Group’s risk management procedures are comprehensive and 
appropriate for the current economic climate, regulatory requirements 
and business operations.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the risk register and agreed 
that cyber security should continue to have an increased focus. 
Consequently, the Company changed its IT provider to ensure that a 
service is provided that is in line with the Company’s security needs. 
The Company is also promoting staff awareness to further assist in 
mitigating this risk.
The Committee’s remit includes all of the Group’s subsidiaries and 
those joint ventures and associates which are administered by the 
Company. Risks arising from externally managed joint ventures are 
managed at the boards of the joint venture companies. The minutes 
of the Committee’s deliberations are reviewed by the Audit Committee. 
In addition to the activities of the Risk Committee, a risk evaluation 
on each significant prospective development, investment or joint 
venture opportunity is evaluated by the Board and, for development 
opportunities, the risks are evaluated by an internal independent 
Project Review Committee. The Executive Directors regularly evaluate 
the Group’s risk-weighted development exposure, which is then 
considered by the Board. All necessary actions have been or are being 
taken to remedy any weaknesses acknowledged from the quarterly 
reviews. No significant failings were identified over the year.
Risk Committee
Risk Committee composition
The regular process of identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
corporate risks has been delegated by the Board to a Risk Committee. 
The Committee comprises the following Directors and senior managers 
with one Non-executive Director in attendance at each meeting:
M H Marx Chair & Chief Executive Officer
M O Shepherd Finance Director
M S Weiner Executive Director
R Upton Executive Director
C J Barwick Executive Director (to 1st March 2015)
M A Wood Senior Manager 
R C McCubbine Senior Manager
D A K Trench Senior Manager
S Whittle In house Legal Counsel
Non-executive Director One Non-executive Director  
will attend each meeting
The Committee’s principal role as set out in its terms of reference 
includes:
 — advising the Board on the Company’s risk appetite, tolerance and 
strategy, taking into account the current and prospective macro-
economic and financial environment;
 — reviewing the Company’s risk register, including identification of new 
risks, continuous assessment, and identification of early warning 
factors and mitigating actions and controls;
 — reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls, internal controls and risk management systems; and
 — reviewing the Company’s procedures for detecting fraud and 
prevention of bribery.  78
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
 — devising descriptions of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment; and
 — providing recommendations on the composition of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees, in consultation with the Chairs of 
those Committees.
Activities of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary. The Committee 
met once during the year to discuss and recommend to the Board the 
appointment of Matthew Weiner and Richard Upton as Chief Executive 
and Deputy Chief Executive in the event that Michael Marx declared 
his intention to step down from the role of Chief Executive Officer. 
The services of an external search firm had been used previously to 
consider a range of potential external candidates, and an external 
facilitation company was used to discuss internal succession. The 
Committee met once after the end of the financial year under review 
to discuss the re-election of all Directors and recommend to the Board 
that each Director being eligible should opt for annual election. The 
Board approved this recommendation and each Director shall retire 
and seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in 
line with provision B.7.1 of the Code. The Company believes that 
sufficient biographical details and other relevant information about the 
Directors seeking annual re-election is provided in this Annual Report 
to enable shareholders to make an informed decision. During the year, 
Richard Upton and Barry Bennett were appointed to the Board as 
Executive and Non-executive Directors. Their appointments were 
approved by the full Board as part of the wider acquisition of the 
Cathedral Group. Neither an external search consultancy nor open 
advertising was used in the appointment of these Directors.
Directors standing for re-election
All Directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting. Following the annual Board performance reviews of individual 
Directors, the Chairman considers that each Director continues to 
operate as an effective member of the Board and has the skills, 
knowledge and experience that enable them to discharge their 
duties properly. On the advice of the Committee, the Board therefore 
recommends the re-election of each Director at the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting. The dates of appointment and length of service 
on the Board are set out in their biographies on pages 70 and 71.
The Committee regularly reviews the Company’s policy on diversity. 
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense 
and the value this brings to the organisation in terms of skills, 
knowledge and experience. The policy reflects the commitment to 
objectively assess, recruit and reward based on merit. Details of 
gender diversity of the Board and across the Company are set out 
on page 101.
As detailed above, the Committee gave consideration to succession 
planning for Executive Directors during the year. It will continue to 
review the requirement for an additional Independent Non-executive 
Director which had been discussed as part of the Board evaluation 
as being of potential benefit to the Board. 
Many of the matters within the Committee’s remit are addressed with all 
Board members present or taken as specific items at full Board meetings.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the size, structure and 
composition of the Board and concluded that it is appropriate.
David Jenkins
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee composition
The Nomination Committee comprises the following Directors:
Director
David Jenkins Chairman
Michael Marx
Sarah Bates
The Company acknowledges that the composition of the Committee 
does not comply with the requirements of the Code provision B.2.1 as 
the Committee does not have a majority of independent Non-executive 
Directors. The Company continues to believe that, particularly in light 
of the overall size of the Board, the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and Chief Executive are best placed to make decisions 
concerning nominations to the Board. The Board believes that the 
Committee has an appropriate composition to discharge its duties 
effectively. This will continue to be kept under review.
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the 
Board, within its agreed terms of reference, on appointments to the 
Board which are fulfilled through an effective search, interview and 
evaluation process based upon objective criteria.
The Committee’s role as set out in its terms of reference includes:
 — evaluating the structure, size and composition of the Board as a whole;
 — succession planning for Executive Directors, Non-executive 
Directors, and the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive;
 — considering the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, time 
commitment required and gender on the Board;
 — recommending suitable candidates for the role of Senior 
Independent Director;
Nomination Committee
David Jenkins
Chairman
“ The year to 28th February 2015 and the current year have been, 
and continue to be, ones of substantial change at Board level. The 
Nomination Committee continues to be focussed on the key issue  
of succession planning of the Board, ensuring the necessary skills, 
experience and leadership qualities are present, both now and in  
the future, to enable the business to be driven forward whilst at the 
same time focussing on delivering long-term, sustainable value to  
our shareholders.”
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 79
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to: 
 — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 — make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 — state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Group financial statements; and
 — prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors 
consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 
99 of the Directors’ Report, confirm that, to the best of each person’s 
knowledge and belief:
 — the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group, and 
Company; and
 — the Strategic Report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and Group, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website, www.developmentsecurities.com. Legislation in 
the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Chris Barton
Company Secretary
29th April 2015
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the following Directors:
Director
Nick Thomlinson Chairman
David Jenkins
Sarah Bates
The Committee seeks advice from remuneration consultants 
Deloitte LLP, and legal support from Linklaters LLP. Representatives 
of Deloitte LLP attended one meeting of the Committee by invitation. 
More information on their appointment can be found on page 95 of 
the Remuneration Report.
Role of the Remuneration Committee and remuneration policy
The Committee is authorised to determine remuneration policy, 
details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 
81 to 96, along with a detailed description of the work of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Approvals Committee
The Approvals Committee comprises any two Executive Directors and 
a minimum of two Non-executive Directors.
Its remit is to permit the approval of transactions between £2.0 million 
and £5.0 million, which are then reported to the Board. Transactions 
below £2.0 million are delegated to the relevant Executive Directors 
responsible, and those above £5.0 million fall under the remit of 
the Board.
Investment and Development Boards
The Investment Board and Development Board comprise of Executive 
Directors and senior managers, and are chaired by Michael Marx and 
Julian Barwick respectively. These Boards meet on a regular basis 
during the year to discuss, review and approve property transactions. 
These include any proposed sale and purchase transactions and 
proposed capital expenditure. The decisions are then ratified by the 
Board if expenditure is above a defined limit. The Non-executive 
Directors are invited to attend the Investment and Development 
Boards to enable them to meet with the broader management team.
Takeover Directive
Details of the required disclosure under the Takeover Directive 
can be found in the Directors’ Report on pages 98 to 102 and the 
Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97 and are incorporated 
herein by cross reference.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared the 
Group and Parent financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the Parent company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the  80
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
The transitional arrangements for the profit plans, which were 
approved by shareholders, are described in more detail in this Report. 
The Executive Directors who are focussed on development and trading 
activities have received payouts under the Development Profit Plan 
during the year. These relate to awards granted in previous years and 
reflect the successful realisation of profits for the Company (above a 
return on equity threshold) from these projects. There were no payouts 
under the Strategic Profit Plan or the Investment Growth Plan.
Annual bonus payments were made in respect of the financial year 
ended 28th February 2015 taking into account the Committee’s 
assessment of performance against the bonus criteria.
An assessment of the performance condition for the award made under the 
Performance Share Plan on 29th May 2012 resulted in 0 per cent vesting.
Board changes
As mentioned in the Chairman’s statement, a number of changes to 
the Board have been announced.
With effect from the close of our Annual General Meeting on 14th July 
2015, Matthew Weiner will succeed Michael Marx as Chief Executive. 
Richard Upton will be appointed as Deputy Chief Executive. To reflect 
the increased scope of their roles, from 14th July, the salaries for 
Matthew and Richard will be £375,000 and £350,000 respectively.
Following the Annual General Meeting, Michael will remain on the Board 
as a Non-executive Director until 29th February 2016.
On 1st March 2015, Julian Barwick stepped down from the Board. He 
will retain his position as a Director of Development Securities (Projects) 
Limited, the main development subsidiary of the Group and will be 
continuing his employment in that capacity on a reduced time basis.
I would like to add my thanks to Michael Marx for his outstanding 
contribution during his tenure as Chief Executive of Development 
Securities PLC. 
We are fully committed to an ongoing dialogue with our shareholders 
and I hope to receive your support for our Annual Report on 
Remuneration at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Nick Thomlinson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Development Securities PLC
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the year ended 
28th February 2015.
Following a comprehensive review of our remuneration framework, we put 
our Policy to a binding shareholder vote last year. This was effective from 
1st March 2015 to ensure alignment with the first award under our new 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The 2015/16 financial year is therefore the 
first year of operation. The approved Policy has been included for reference.
In line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, we are 
strengthening our recovery provisions by implementing clawback on all 
variable pay arrangements. As a Committee, we believe that this is a positive 
change which strengthens the link between remuneration and risk. 
Linking remuneration to strategy
Our Policy is well placed to maximise alignment between Executive 
Directors and shareholders, with an emphasis on the key strategic 
priorities of the Group as follows:
 — Simplicity: taking into account shareholder feedback, we are 
transitioning from operating a number of profit-based plans to one 
simplified long-term share plan that is directly linked to shareholder 
value creation.
 — Longer-term time horizons: the first awards under our new LTIP 
will be made during the 2015/16 financial year. This plan is structured 
such that the combined performance and holding period is up to 
five years. This ensures that our Executive Directors consider the 
longer-term impacts of their decisions on the business.
 — Net asset value per share (NAVps) performance: performance 
is assessed over the longer term by considering Group NAVps 
growth, a key measure of our success as we aim to deliver enhanced 
shareholder value through our diversified portfolio of projects.
Remuneration out-turns
Development Securities has achieved record levels of performance 
during the 2014/15 financial year, realising our highest ever profit 
before tax of £34.8m. Net assets per share ended the year at 
276 pence compared to 262 pence at 28th February 2014.
As noted in both the Chief Executive’s and Chairman’s statements at 
the beginning of the Annual Report, this outstanding performance is 
a result of the management team successfully executing the strategic 
objectives that were set a few years ago.
In terms of remuneration out-turns, we have only made increases to 
Executive Directors’ salaries where there has been a change in role.
ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
OUR REMUNERATION 
FRAMEWORK IS 
DESIGNED TO PROMOTE 
LONG- TERM GROWTH 
THROUGH SUSTAINABLE 
PERFORMANCE
Nick Thomlinson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
See page 71 for Nick Thomlinson’s biography 81
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
The key objectives of the Company’s Remuneration Policy are as follows:
 — To ensure that Executive Directors and senior managers are 
rewarded in a way that attracts, retains, motivates and rewards 
management of the highest quality;
 — To operate incentive plans designed to encourage Executive 
Directors and senior managers to align their long-term career 
aspirations with the long-term interests of the Company and 
shareholders’ expectations;
 — To promote the attainment of both individual and corporate 
achievements, measuring against performance criteria required to 
deliver the long-term growth and sustainability of the business; and
 — To encourage sustained performance over the medium and long 
term without taking undue risk.
The total pay framework is based on a mixture of fixed and variable 
elements considered on a meritocratic basis at individual and Group 
level, taking into account the remuneration awarded to employees in 
the Group. The balance between fixed and variable pay is considered 
appropriate given that the various incentive plans/schemes ensure a 
significant proportion of a key individual’s remuneration package is 
performance related, thereby aligning with the strategic aims of the 
business and the performance of the Company.
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Policy (the Policy) was approved by our 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in July 2014 and 
applies from 1st March 2015. Since no changes to the Policy are 
proposed for the year ahead, this part of the report will not be subject 
to a shareholder vote at our 2015 Annual General Meeting. As this is 
the first year of operation, we have included the full approved Policy 
below, except that the scenario charts have been updated, references 
to 2014 salaries and 2014/15 bonuses have been removed and details 
of service contracts have been updated.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Policy table for Executive Directors
PURPOSE OF COMPONENT 
AND LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Salary
Core element of remuneration 
set at a level to attract and retain 
individuals of the calibre required 
to shape and execute the 
Company’s strategy.
Contractual fixed cash amount 
paid monthly.
Typically, salary levels are 
reviewed on an annual basis. 
The Committee takes into account 
a number of factors when setting 
base salary, including:
 — Size and scope of the role;
 — Skills and experience of 
the individual;
 — Performance of the Company 
and individual;
 — Appropriate market data; and
 — Pay and conditions elsewhere 
in the Company.
Salary increases may be applied 
taking into account the factors 
outlined in this table. 
During review, consideration will 
also be given to increases applied 
to the wider employee population. 
In certain circumstances such as 
an increase in the size and scope 
of the role or increased experience 
where an individual has been hired 
on a lower salary initially, higher 
increases may be given.
There is no maximum salary 
opportunity.
None.
Benefits
To provide Executive Directors 
with market competitive benefits 
consistent with the role.
Executive Directors currently 
receive the following benefits:
 — Cash in lieu of company car;
 — Private medical insurance;
 — Income protection insurance; and
 — Life assurance.
Other benefits that are consistent 
with the role may be provided if the 
Committee considers it appropriate. 
Payments may be made to 
Executive Directors in lieu of any 
unutilised holiday allowance. The 
Committee may permit additional 
holiday in lieu of remuneration.
Relocation and expatriate benefits 
may also be provided, if an existing 
or new Executive Director is 
required to relocate.
The Executive Directors may 
participate in any all employee 
share plans adopted by the 
Company on the same basis 
as other employees.
The cost of benefits may vary 
from year to year depending on an 
individual’s circumstances and the 
varying cost of benefits premiums. 
There is no maximum benefits value.
None. 82
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
PURPOSE OF COMPONENT 
AND LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Retirement benefits
To provide Executive Directors 
with retirement benefits consistent 
with the role.
Defined contribution pension 
arrangements are provided.
Pension benefits are provided 
through a Group Personal Pension 
Plan, non-pensionable cash 
supplement or contribution to a 
Personal Pension arrangement.
17.5 per cent of salary per annum. None.
Annual bonus
Incentivises and rewards 
Executive Directors for the 
successful delivery of strategic 
objectives on an annual basis.
Payments are based on 
performance in the relevant 
financial year.
Payments up to 50 per cent of the 
maximum opportunity (‘Target’ 
performance) are made in cash.
Any bonus above 50 per cent of 
the maximum opportunity will be 
paid in shares which the Director 
is expected to hold for at least 
two years.
150 per cent of salary per annum.
Executive Directors, excluding 
the Chief Executive, will have a 
lower maximum opportunity than 
the percentage stated above. 
The annual bonus is 
determined principally with 
reference to the four main 
drivers of the creation of 
shareholder value in our 
business: 
 — Accurate reading of the 
economic and market cycles 
in which we operate;
 — Pipeline of future 
development projects;
 — Active management of the 
investment portfolio; and
 — Maintenance of the 
standards of excellence 
that are embedded within 
the Company’s culture.
The Committee reviews 
the basis of performance 
measurement under the annual 
bonus from time to time and 
may review and amend the 
measures as it considers 
appropriate.
50 per cent of the maximum 
bonus opportunity will be 
payable for ‘Target’ 
performance.
REMUNERATION REPORT continued 83
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
PURPOSE OF COMPONENT 
AND LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Incentivises and rewards 
Executive Directors for delivery of 
the Company’s strategic plan of 
building shareholder value.
Awards of nil-cost options or 
conditional shares.
The awards vest subject to the 
achievement of performance 
targets set by the Committee. 
50 per cent of the award is 
based on performance measured 
over three years, with the 
remaining 50 per cent based 
on performance measured 
over four years.
Following vesting, the awards 
will normally be subject to an 
additional holding period, for at 
least two-thirds of the award, of 
up to two years such that the 
combined performance and 
holding period will, for this portion, 
not be less than five years in total.
Dividend equivalents may be paid 
on awards. 
Awards may be subject to malus 
and therefore may be reduced or 
forfeited at the discretion of the 
Committee if an exceptional event 
occurs which has a material 
adverse impact on the Group 
including, but not limited to, 
reputational damage or a material 
failure of risk management. In 
addition, awards may be reduced or 
forfeited if results announced for 
any period have been restated or 
subsequently appeared materially 
financially inaccurate or misleading.
Three times base salary per 
annum.
The primary performance 
measure will be net asset value 
per share growth (including 
dividends). No less than 50 per 
cent of an award will be based 
on this measure. The Committee 
retains the flexibility to introduce 
additional measures.
For threshold levels of 
performance, no more than 
25 per cent of the award vests 
with 100 per cent of the award 
vesting for maximum 
performance.  84
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Legacy arrangements and transition
The Committee undertook a review of incentive arrangements in the financial year ended 28th February 2014. Following this review the new 
Long-Term Incentive Plan will replace a number of plans. The following table sets out plans under which no further awards will be made or where 
awards will be made for a short period as part of the transitional arrangements. Any subsisting awards for legacy plans will continue in accordance 
with the relevant plan rules.
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
PURPOSE OF COMPONENT 
AND LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Shareholding guidelines
To align Executive Directors with 
the shareholder experience.
The Company operates 
shareholding guidelines for 
Executive Directors.
Not applicable. Not applicable.
Development Profit Plan (DPP)
Incentivises and rewards 
Executive Directors for the 
performance of their portfolio 
of projects.
Awards are made in respect of 
each development project.
No awards will be made to 
Executive Directors for projects 
which commence following 
1st March 2015.
Awards may pay out once a 
project makes a realised profit. 
No payments will be made after 
1st March 2018.
50 per cent of the payment is made 
in cash or shares at the time profit 
is realised.
The remaining 50 per cent is 
deferred until the end of the 
financial year and paid in cash 
or shares at this point. 
The maximum aggregate pool 
available for distribution to 
Executive Directors and the wider 
team is 10 per cent of the realised 
profit above a hurdle for each 
development project.
Payments are only made under 
this plan once profit has been 
realised on a development above 
a threshold return (a notional 
cost of equity).
Losses attributable to other 
projects in which a Director has 
been made an award are also 
taken into account when 
calculating payments to ensure 
that participants are incentivised 
to mitigate losses while 
maximising project profits. This 
calculation is at the Committee’s 
discretion and will not apply in 
respect of certain legacy awards 
and projects. Where unrealised 
losses are deducted in the 
calculation but a profit is 
subsequently recognised a 
balancing payment may 
be made. 85
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
PURPOSE OF COMPONENT 
AND LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Additional profit plans
Designed to incentivise all 
Executive Directors in the 
principal activities of the Group, 
namely development and the 
investment portfolio.
There are no subsisting awards under either the Strategic Profit Plan or the Investment Growth Plan. 
No further awards will be made to Executive Directors under these two plans.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Incentivises and rewards 
Executive Directors for the 
sustainable creation of 
shareholder value over the 
longer term.
An award of nil-cost options or 
contingent shares made on an 
annual basis. No awards will be 
made to Executive Directors under 
the Performance Share Plan from 
1st March 2015.
The awards vest subject to the 
achievement of performance 
targets over a three year 
performance period.
Dividend equivalents may be paid 
on awards up to the point of vesting.
200 per cent of base salary as set 
out in the plan rules.
In practice, awards of 75 per cent 
of salary and 50 per cent of salary 
have been made to the Chief 
Executive and other Executive 
Directors respectively.
Awards vest based on relative 
TSR performance and NAV 
per share growth over the 
performance period. The 
performance measures are 
equally weighted for all 
outstanding awards.
The Committee may change or 
waive a performance condition 
in accordance with its terms or 
if anything happens which 
causes the Committee 
reasonably to consider it 
appropriate to do so.
For threshold levels of 
performance, 25 per cent of 
the award vests with 100 per 
cent of the award vesting for 
maximum performance.  86
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Alternatively, outstanding LTIP and PSP awards may be subject to 
rollover, with the agreement of the acquiring company.
Other corporate events may include (but are not limited to) a demerger, 
delisting, distribution (other than an ordinary dividend), reverse takeover 
and merger by way of dual listing.
Under the DPP, on a takeover, the Committee can bring forward award 
payments. The amount of the payments will not exceed the bonus pool 
and, subject to that, are determined by the Committee on the basis of 
estimated profits.
Minor changes
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out 
in this Report (for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or 
administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) 
without obtaining shareholder approval for the amendment.
Performance measures and target setting
Annual bonus
The Committee has always taken a somewhat different approach to 
the annual bonus compared to our competitors, in that the annual 
bonus has never been formulaically driven by the annual financial 
results but reflects a measure of annual performance in the context 
of the length of the property cycle. The annual bonus is designed to 
reward Executive Directors for the successful execution of the four 
main drivers of shareholder value creation.
Long-term incentive plan
The Company’s overarching objective is to build shareholder value 
over the long-term. Following a review of our incentive arrangements, 
for awards made in 2015, the Long-Term Incentive Plan will measure 
the Company’s NAV per share growth over three and four years. 
This will ensure that Directors are closely aligned to the shareholder 
experience as our NAV per share growth performance is a key 
indicator of the performance of the business and is closely related 
to share price performance.
Targets are positioned at a level which the Committee considers to be 
stretching but which do not incentivise a change in our risk approach.
Notes to the policy table
Application of Policy
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office (including exercising any discretions 
available to it in connection with such payments) that are not in line 
with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were 
(i) agreed before the Policy came into effect; or (ii) at a time when
the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the
opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for
the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these
purposes, ‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying awards of
variable remuneration and an award of shares or cash is ‘agreed’ at the
time the award is granted.
Discretion
The Committee will operate the LTIP, PSP and DPP in accordance with 
the relevant plan rules. In particular, the Committee retains discretion 
on the operation and administration of these plans as follows:
 — Dividend equivalents may be paid on awards up to the point of 
vesting including on a reinvested basis;
 — While LTIP and PSP awards will normally be delivered in shares, 
the Committee may settle an award in cash; and
 — In the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital, a 
demerger, special dividend or distribution or any other corporate 
event which, in the Committee’s opinion might affect the current or 
future value of awards, the Committee may adjust the number of 
shares, the exercise price and the performance condition.
Awards may be amended in accordance with the rules approved by 
shareholders.
Payment in shares
Where cumulative payments under the Development Profit Plan 
exceed £1.0m in one financial year, two-thirds of the payments above 
£1.0m will be made in shares which the Director is expected to hold for 
at least two years. This will apply if the Director’s shareholdings are 
less than two times salary.
The Committee may increase the level of share deferral for incentives 
at any time.
Takeover or other corporate event
For outstanding LTIP and PSP awards, on a takeover or other 
corporate event, generally the performance period will end on the date 
of the event. The Committee will determine vesting having regard to 
the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved at 
this point taking into account any other factors they consider relevant. 
Awards will generally vest on a time pro-rata basis taking into account 
the shortened performance period, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise. Awards subject to a holding period will be released as part 
of the transaction.
REMUNERATION REPORT continued 87
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
The assumptions used for these charts are as follows:
LEVELS OF PERFORMANCE ASSUMPTIONS
Fixed pay
All scenarios — Total fixed pay comprises base 
salary, benefits and pension.
 — Base salary – for the 2015/16 
financial year.
 — Benefits – amount received by 
each Executive Director for the 
financial year ended 28th 
February 2015 as per single 
figure table on page 91.
 — Pension – 17.5 per cent base 
salary pension contributions.
Variable pay
Minimum performance — No payout under the annual 
bonus.
 — No vesting under the Long-
Term Incentive Plan.
Mid performance — 50 per cent of the maximum 
payout under the annual bonus.
 — 20 per cent vesting under the 
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Maximum performance — 100 per cent of the maximum 
payout under the annual bonus.
 — 100 per cent vesting under the 
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
LTIP awards have been shown at face value with no dividend, share 
price growth or discount rate assumptions. Payments relating to legacy 
DPP and PSP awards made in respect of previous financial years are 
also excluded.
Award levels reflect a 300 per cent of salary award for M S Weiner and 
R Upton and a 75 per cent of salary award for M O Shepherd.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 
compared with other employees
As for our Executive Directors, a sizeable proportion of employee 
pay is dependent on Company, team and individual performance. 
All employees participate in the annual bonus, with the weighting of 
individual and corporate measures dependent on an individual’s role 
and their ability to directly influence the Company’s results.
Individuals below the Board who are involved in the organisation and 
management of our development and trading projects may be invited 
to participate in the DPP as appropriate. While this plan is to be 
discontinued for Executive Directors with effect from 1st March 2015, 
it is intended that it will continue to operate below the Board to ensure 
that individuals at this level are rewarded for profit realisation from 
development projects.
Illustrations of Remuneration Policy.
Illustrations of the Remuneration Policy applying from 1st March 2015 
are provided below. These reflect the intended operation of the new 
policy in the first year. 
M H Marx (period served as an Executive Director)
Total ﬁxed pay
£0 £200k £400k £600k £800k £1,000k
Minimum
performance
£196,250
£308,750
£421,250
Mid
performance
Maximum
performance
Annual bonus LTIP
100%
64% 36%
47% 53%
M O Shepherd
Total ﬁxed pay
£0 £200k £400k £600k £800k £1,000k
Minimum
performance
£399,875
£570,500
£887,375
Mid
performance
Maximum
performance
Annual bonus LTIP
100%
70% 21% 9%
45% 27.5% 27.5%
M S Weiner
Total ﬁxed pay
£0 £400k £800k £1,200k £1,600k £2,000k
Minimum
performance
£443,203
£796,031
£1,800,234
Mid
performance
Maximum
performance
Annual bonus LTIP
100%
56% 17% 27%
25% 15% 60%
R Upton
Total ﬁxed pay
£0 £400k £800k £1,200k £1,600k £2,000k
Minimum
performance
£424,844
£762,438
£1,723,281
Mid
performance
Maximum
performance
Annual bonus LTIP
100%
56% 17% 27%
25% 15% 60% 88
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Policy table for Non-executive Directors
COMPONENT THE COMPANY’S APPROACH
Chairman fees — Comprises an all-inclusive fee for all 
Board and Committee responsibilities.
 — Determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and approved by 
the Board.
Non-executive 
Director fees
 — Comprises a basic fee in respect 
of their Board duties.
 — Further fees may be paid in 
respect of additional Board or 
Committee duties.
 — Recommended by the Chairman 
and Chief Executive and approved 
by the Board.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-executive Directors’ 
duties may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including 
any tax due on those expenses.
No Director plays a role in determining their own remuneration. 
Fees for all Non-executive Directors are set at a level sufficient to 
attract and retain individuals with the required skills, experience and 
knowledge to allow the Board to carry out its duties. The fees set out 
above are the sole element of Non-executive Director remuneration. 
They are not eligible for participation in the Company’s incentive or 
pension plans.
The fees are set within the aggregate limits set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association and approved by shareholders.
Approach to remuneration on recruitment
The Committee will apply the following principles on the recruitment of 
a new Executive Director:
 — Although the Company operates in a highly competitive market for 
talent, the Committee is mindful of the need to avoid paying more 
than is necessary on recruitment;
 — The package of a new Executive Director would, so far as practical, 
be aligned with the Policy set out in the table on pages 81 to 85;
 — Salaries would reflect the skills and experience of the individual, and 
may be set at a level to allow future salary progression to reflect 
performance in the role. For interim positions a cash supplement 
may be paid rather than salary (for example a Non-executive 
Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis);
 — It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the variable 
pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy table on pages 
81 to 85. However, at recruitment, the Committee may flex the 
balance between annual and long-term incentives and the measures 
used to assess performance; and
 — Variable pay on recruitment (excluding buy-outs) would be subject to 
the maximums in line with the ongoing incentive policy maximums 
set out in the policy table on pages 81 to 85 being 150 per cent of 
salary for annual bonus and 300 per cent of salary for the LTIP.
In the event that an individual is internally promoted to the Board 
(including if an Executive Director is appointed following an acquisition 
or merger), the Company would normally honour all legacy 
arrangements in line with their original terms.
Buy-outs
To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make compensatory 
payments and/or awards for any remuneration arrangements subject 
to forfeit on leaving a previous employer. Any buy-out would take into 
consideration the terms of the arrangement being forfeited and would 
take into account all relevant factors such as the form, expected value, 
performance conditions, anticipated vesting and timing of the forfeited 
remuneration. There is no limit on the value of such awards, but the 
Committee’s intention is that the value awarded would be no more than 
the commercial value forfeited.
Recruitment of Non-executive Directors
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, 
remuneration arrangements will be consistent with the Policy set out in 
this Report.
Service contracts – Executive Directors
The dates of the current contracts in place for the Executive Directors 
are as follows:
Executive Director Date of contract
M H Marx 24th June 1994
M O Shepherd 8th October 2012
M S Weiner 17th March 2004
R Upton 19th May 2014
The Executive Directors’ service contracts do not specify an expiry 
date and may be terminated upon twelve months’ notice by either the 
Director or the Company. 
In the event of early termination, a payment in lieu of notice may be 
made which may include salary, pension and benefits.
The Company’s policy on termination payments is to consider the 
circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the 
relevant contractual provisions, the circumstances of termination and 
any applicable duty to mitigate.
An Executive Director may be hired on a contract that has a longer 
notice period (up to 18 months) during an initial pre-determined period.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors have letters of 
appointment rather than service contracts. Details of the dates of 
appointment are set out below:
Non-executive Director Date of appointment
D S Jenkins 1st February 2007
S C Bates 15th January 2010
N H Thomlinson 3rd January 2012
B Bennett 19th May 2014
The Non-executive Directors’ appointments are terminable at the will 
of the parties but are envisaged to establish an initial term of three 
years, after which they will be reviewed annually.
The notice periods are currently twelve months in the case of the 
Chairman and six months for other Non-executive Directors.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts and the Non-executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment are available at the Company’s 
registered office from the Company Secretary. 89
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Policy on payment for loss of office
Where an Executive Director leaves employment, the Committee’s 
approach to determining any payment for loss of office will normally be 
based on the following principles:
 — The Committee’s objective is to find an outcome which is in the best 
interests of both the Company and its shareholders while taking into 
account the specific circumstances of cessation of employment;
 — The Company may make a contribution towards an Executive 
Director’s legal fees in connection with advice on the terms of 
their departure;
 — The Committee may make an annual bonus payment for the year of 
cessation depending on the reason for leaving. Typically, the 
Committee will take into consideration the period served during the 
year and the individual and the Company’s performance up to 
cessation. Any such payment is at the discretion of the Committee;
 — The treatment of outstanding share awards will be governed by the 
relevant plan rules as set out in the table below. For the purposes of 
this table, good leaver reasons include (but are not limited to) 
cessation due to ill-health, redundancy, retirement, death and any 
other reason at the discretion of the Committee; and
 — If awards are made on recruitment (such as buy-outs) the treatment 
on leaving would be determined, at that time.
Ongoing plans
PLAN TREATMENT ON CESSATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Long-Term Incentive Plan — Unvested awards will normally lapse in full unless a participant is a good leaver.
 — If the Committee determines that a participant is a good leaver, it will determine the proportion of the 
award that vests to the extent that any performance condition is satisfied on the vesting date and it will 
take into account the time elapsed between the start of the performance period and cessation of 
employment unless it determines otherwise.
 — The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original vesting date, although the Committee has 
the flexibility to determine that awards can vest early upon cessation of employment or at a later date. In 
the event of death, awards vest on cessation.
 — Where options are granted, vested options will typically remain exercisable for twelve months from the 
date of vesting. In the event of death awards remain exercisable for 24 months.
 — Where an individual leaves during the holding period of an award, the award will usually be released at 
the normal time, except in the case of death or if the Committee dis-applies the holding period. In the 
event of an individual’s dismissal for misconduct during the holding period, all awards will lapse.
LEGACY PLANS
Development Profit Plan — Awards will normally lapse in full unless a participant is a good leaver.
 — If a participant is treated as a good leaver and ceases employment before the bonus is paid, the 
Committee may decide that some, or all, of the participant’s bonus is paid to him at the same time as 
they are paid to other participants.
Performance Share Plan — Awards will normally lapse in full unless a participant is a good leaver.
 — If the Committee determines that a participant is a good leaver, it will determine the proportion of the 
award that vests, normally taking into account the achievement of the relevant performance conditions 
at the vesting date and the time elapsed between the date of grant and cessation of employment.
 — The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original vesting date, although the Committee has 
the flexibility to determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment.
 — Where options are granted, vested options will typically remain exercisable for twelve months from the 
date of vesting.
 — On death, an award will vest in full on the date of death. 
HMRC approved all employee 
share plans
 — In line with the HMRC approved plan rules.
The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations agreed with 
the Executive Director. This is dependent on the contractual obligations 
from 1st March 2015 (i) not being in contradiction with the Policy set 
out in this Report, or (ii) if so, not having been entered into on a date 
later than 27th June 2012 , in accordance with the relevant legislation.
Consideration of pay and employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Company
The Committee considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Company when developing policies for Executive Directors. The 
Committee does not view formal comparison metrics when considering 
policy. However, the Committee is kept updated and has input into the 
remuneration decisions for the wider employee population. For example, 
the Committee will typically review the annual bonuses for all employees.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee takes an active interest in shareholder views on 
remuneration. The Remuneration Policy presented to shareholders 
has been shaped by dialogue with our shareholders who universally 
requested that we simplify arrangements and align them more closely 
with overall Company results. We consulted with many of our major 
shareholders during 2013, and in 2014 we undertook a significant 
consultation exercise prior to implementing our new Long-Term 
Incentive Plan. The proposed structure of our policy is a result of 
that process. 90
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT
The remainder of this report provides details of the remuneration for 
the financial year ended 28th February 2015 and how our Policy will 
be implemented for the financial year commencing 1st March 2015. 
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the financial year 
commencing 1st March 2015
The financial year beginning on 1st March 2015 is the first year for 
which our approved Policy applies. The table below provides an 
overview of the components of the remuneration framework for all 
Executive Directors:
Fixed pay + Annual bonus + LTIP
Transitional arrangements are in place for legacy plans: 
 — No further awards will be made under the Development Profit 
Plan. Payments in relation to legacy awards may be made until 
1st March 2018.
 — No further awards will be made under the Performance Share Plan. 
Outstanding PSP awards will vest in line with the original time 
frames, subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
Salary
The salaries which will apply for the financial year beginning 1st March 
2015 are set out below:
1st March 2015 1st March 2014*
£’000 £’000 % increase
M H Marx 400 400 0.0
M O Shepherd 325 325 0.0
M S Weiner 340 340 0.0
R Upton 340 340 0.0
*or appointment if later
Michael Marx will be stepping down as Chief Executive Officer at the 
AGM on 14th July, at which point he will become a Non-executive 
Director of the Company. The salary set out in the table above will 
therefore be pro-rated up to the close of the AGM. Further information 
is set out on page 93. 
Matthew Weiner will become CEO at the close of the AGM on 
14th July, his salary at this time will rise to £375,000.
Richard Upton will become Deputy CEO at the close of the AGM on 
14th July, his salary at this time will rise to £350,000.
Retirement benefits
The existing money purchase pension scheme is now closed to future 
contributions and new joiners. Pensions are provided via a Group 
Personal Pension Plan. The contribution structure for Executive 
Directors remains unchanged at 17.5 per cent of salary for the financial 
year commencing 1st March 2015.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus is based on the performance of the Company during 
the year, team achievements and the specific contribution of individuals 
concerned. Payouts are determined principally by the four main drivers 
for the creation of shareholder value in our business: namely, accurate 
reading of the economic and market cycles in which we operate; the 
pipeline of future development projects; active management of the 
investment portfolio; and the maintenance of the standards of 
excellence that are embedded within the Company’s culture.
The rationale for any bonus payments in respect of the 2015/16 
financial year will be explained in the 2016 Remuneration Report.
Annual bonus opportunities for the financial year beginning 1st March 
2015 are shown below. Bonus amounts above target are held as 
shares for a period of two years.
On-target bonus  
for year as 
percentage  
of salary
Maximum bonus  
for year as a 
percentage  
of salary
% %
M H Marx 75.0 150.0
M O Shepherd 37.5 75.0
M S Weiner 37.5 75.0
R Upton 37.5 75.0
Michael Marx’s bonus will be pro-rated to reflect his time served as an 
Executive Director during the financial year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The financial year commencing 1st March 2015 will be the first year 
that awards will be made under our new LTIP which was approved by 
shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
Awards of 300 per cent of salary will be made to Matthew Weiner and 
Richard Upton. Marcus Shepherd will receive an award of 75 per cent 
of salary in the year 2015/16, which is intended to increase to 100 per 
cent in 2016/17 to reflect an increased scope in responsibilities. 
Awards will be subject to Development Securities PLC’s NAVps growth 
(including dividends), 50 per cent measured over a three year period 
and 50 per cent measured over a four year period as outlined below:
Targets at year  
three and four
Three year  
cumulative targets
Four year  
cumulative targets
Threshold vesting 
(20% of maximum) 5.0% p.a. 15.8% 21.6%
Maximum vesting 
(100% of maximum) 12.0% p.a. 40.5% 57.4%
Pro-rated vesting will occur for performance between these points.
Two-thirds of the award will be subject to an additional holding period, 
increasing the total of the performance and holding period to five years.
Awards will be subject to a risk underpin. For awards to vest, the 
Committee must be satisfied that performance has not been achieved 
as a result of inappropriate financial risk (e.g. very high levels of 
gearing), and that the level of financial and business risk is in line 
with the Company’s stated strategy. 
Clawback and malus
In line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, incentive 
awards made in respect of 2015/16 onwards will be subject to both 
malus and clawback provisions.
Clawback and/or malus provisions may be applied at the discretion 
of the Committee if an exceptional event occurs, such as a material 
misstatement of results, serious misconduct or an error/material 
misstatement resulting in overpayment.  91
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Malus provisions may also be applied in the event of serious 
reputational damage to the Company or a material failure of 
risk management.
Clawback provisions will apply to the annual bonus for up to two years 
following the payment of cash/shares. For LTIP awards, malus and 
clawback provisions may be applied for up to five years post-grant.
Transitional arrangements
The new remuneration framework applying from 1st March 2015 
involved a significant departure from our historical approach which 
has been focussed on cash-based profit plans.
As reported last year, to balance fairness to participants and 
shareholders as well as reflect legacy contractual entitlements, 
transitional arrangements will apply as outlined below.
Development Profit Plan
While no new awards will be made under this plan, payments in respect 
of outstanding awards may be made up to 1st March 2018.
Awards become payable once profits have been realised on a 
development project. The maximum bonus pool available for 
distribution to Executive Directors and the wider team is 10.0 per cent 
of the realised profit for each development. This is calculated once a 
notional cost of equity of 12.5 per cent is deducted, so that the pool 
generated only relates to profits over and above a threshold return.
In 2013, the concept of netting off was introduced for all projects from 
August 2009 so that any realised and unrealised losses in respect of 
an Executive Directors’ portfolio will be taken into account when a 
profit is realised on a project. Projects prior to 2009 and certain other 
legacy projects are excluded.
Performance Share Plan
Historical awards made under the PSP will continue to run and will vest 
on their normal vesting date subject to the satisfaction of the required 
performance conditions.
No further awards will be made to Executive Directors under the PSP.
Savings-related option scheme
The renewal of our Save As You Earn Option Plan was approved by 
shareholders at our 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive Directors’ fees
Fees for the financial year commencing 1st March 2015 are set out in 
the table below:
1st March 2015 1st March 2014
£’000 £’000
Chairman 105.0 90.0
Basic fee 40.0 40.0
Chairman of Audit or 
Remuneration Committee 7.5 7.5
Membership of Audit or 
Remuneration Committee 5.0 2.5
Senior Independent Director 5.0 5.0
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Executive Directors Fees and salary Benefits* Pension** Annual bonus DPP PSP Total
M H Marx 2015 400 20 62 520 – – 1,002
2014 400 21 61 400 – – 882
M O Shepherd 2015 325 18 55 163 – – 561
2014 325 18 56 122 – – 521
C J Barwick 2015 325 19 57 – 51 – 452
2014 325 19 57 – 424 – 825
M S Weiner 2015 340 18 57 170 1,589 – 2,174
2014 340 18 58 128 1,328 – 1,872
R Upton*** 2015 268 14 47 135 – – 464
(appointed 19th May 2014) 2014 – – – – – – –
Non-executive Directors
D S Jenkins (Chairman) 2015 99 – – – – – 99
2014 90 – – – – – 90
S C Bates 2015 56 – – – – – 56
2014 55 – – – – – 55
N H Thomlinson 2015 51 – – – – – 51
2014 50 – – – – – 50
B Bennett**** 2015 32 2 – – – – 34
(appointed 19th May 2014) 2014 – – – – – – –
*  Benefits received during the year include motor vehicles, cash in lieu of motor vehicle, fuel and medical insurance.
**  Pension contributions received during the year include contributions to the Company’s approved scheme, cash supplements or waived for additional holiday entitlement.
***  Salary, benefits and pension pro-rated from 19th May 2014 – based on annual salary of £340,000 and 17.5% pension contribution.
**** Non-executive Director fee pro-rated from 19th May 2014 – based on an annual fee of £40,000. Benefit figure relates to the provision of private medical insurance in accordance  
with a legacy agreement with Cathedral. This benefit is no longer provided. 92
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Incentive out-turns
Annual bonus
The Committee has always taken a balanced and robust approach to 
the assessment of the annual bonus. The Executive Directors’ annual 
bonuses are determined principally by the four main drivers for the 
creation of shareholder value in our business namely; accurate reading 
of the economic and market cycles in which we operate; the pipeline of 
future development projects; active management of the investment 
portfolio; and the maintenance of the standards of excellence that are 
embedded within the Company’s culture. The table below provides 
details of the performance during the year with respect to the four 
drivers of shareholder value creation which were taken into account 
in determining bonus awards for 2014/15:
Accurate reading of economic and market cycles
 — This was an excellent year for the company, where the 
successful execution of strategic objectives produced a record 
level of performance.
 — Profit before tax of £34.8 million was achieved, a 78 per cent 
increase on the prior year and a record level for the Company.
 — Activity levels are now considered to be established at an 
enhanced level with terms of trade attractive in the geographic 
and operational sectors in which the Company operates. 
 — During the year, we continued to review the balance sheet to 
maintain a disciplined capital structure. The level of net debt 
remained low at 36.3 per cent (excluding share of debt with 
joint ventures).
Pipeline of future development projects
 — The acquisition of Cathedral was a strategic step change for  
the Company. 
 — Cathedral significantly expanded Development Securities PLC’s 
portfolio of projects as well as enhanced our activities and increased 
our delivery options (particularly in residential development and 
public private partnerships).
 — This acquisition expanded our capacity to strengthen our pipeline 
and market share.
 — Successful acquisition of six development and trading projects 
during the year.
 — This is in addition to the c.40 development and trading projects 
that are currently being developed.
Active management of the investment portfolio
 — Portfolio now re-established at the £200 million level.
 — During the year, we recycled in excess of £40 million out of assets 
where we had maximised added value and re-invested it into assets 
with robust long-term income streams, more resilient values and 
attractive income yields.
Maintenance of standards of excellence
 — Leadership following the acquisition of Cathedral to deliver  
a successful integration of the business.
 — Development of the culture and values of the reshaped organisation.
When determining annual bonuses and awards under the DPP there 
is no ‘double-counting’. The contribution of any team or individual 
performance which leads to awards under the DPP is disregarded 
for the purpose of the annual bonus.
The annual bonus payments made to Executive Directors in respect 
of the financial year ended 28th February 2015 are set out in the 
table below.
28th March  
2015
28th March  
2015
£’000 % of maximum
M H Marx 520.0 86.7
M O Shepherd 162.5 66.7
C J Barwick – –
M S Weiner 170.0 66.7
R Upton 134.5* 66.7
* A bonus award of £170,000 was made to Richard Upton pro-rated for the 9.5 months 
since appointment.
100 per cent of any annual bonus awarded which is above Target will 
be paid in shares which the recipient must hold for at least two years.
Development Profit Plan
Under the rules of the Development Profit Plan, the following projects 
realised a profit during the financial year and so payments were made 
as follows, after netting off as appropriate. Each project was subject to 
a 12.5 per cent notional cost of equity threshold.
C J Barwick M S Weiner
Project £’000 £’000
Awards granted in previous years 
that resulted in an award
Chrome Portfolio* – 1,099
Rock Portfolio* – 24
10 Hammersmith Grove* 51 –
Barnstaple – Phase 1** – 9
Romford (Tollgate House & Market Place)** – 159
North London office portfolio** – 199
Tubs Hill House, Sevenoaks*** – 99
* 50% of the award was paid during 2014/15, with the remaining 50% due in 2015/16 
following completion of the Group audit.
** Profits were realised towards the end of the 2014/15 financial year. 50% of the award was 
paid in March 2015. The remaining 50% will be paid in 2016/17 following completion of the 
Group audit.
*** Profits were realised towards the end of the 2014/15 financial year. 50% of the award was 
paid in April 2015. The remaining 50% will be paid in 2016/17 following completion of the 
Group audit.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Awards were made under the PSP in 2012 subject to the Company’s 
relative TSR performance and growth in NAV per share over the 
period 1st March 2012 to 28th February 2015. Development 
Securities PLC’s TSR performance was below the median of the 
comparator group, the Company’s NAVps growth was below the 
required threshold, therefore the 2012 PSP award lapsed in full. 93
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Awards granted during the year
Development Profit Plan (audited)
The table below sets out awards granted during the year. As explained above, as part of the transitional arrangements, payments may be made 
under this plan up to 1st March 2018.
M S Weiner
Project % Award
Axis Tower Manchester 6.0
Barnstaple – Phase 1 3.0
Barnstaple – Phase 2 2.0
Barwood – BDSL 7.0
Barwood – BLEL 7.0
Beyond Green – Norwich 6.0
Beyond Green – Pincents Hill 7.0
Burlington House 6.5
Charlemont Clinic 6.5
Colston Tower 5.0
Donnybrook House 6.5
Moreton Woods 3.0
Pembroke Road 5.0
Robswall 5.5
Cathedral Projects 5.0
Chill Factor
e
, Manchester 5.0
Rembrandt House, Watford 6.0
Wessex – Marsh Mills 5.0
Wessex – Launceston 2.0
Wind Farms 5.0
Woking 3.5
Performance Share Plan (audited)
On 22nd May 2014, awards were made under the Performance Share Plan as follows:
Type
Number of shares
(% of salary)*
Face value
(% of salary)*
 Performance 
conditions
End of  
performance period
% vesting 
at threshold
M H Marx
Conditional
share award
122,951 75.0
50% relative TSR 
50% NAVps growth
28th February 
2017
25.0
M O Shepherd 66,598 50.0
* The face value has been calculated based on the share price at 21st May 2014 of 244p pence per share.
Impact of directorate changes
On 24th November, we announced that Julian Barwick would be 
stepping down from the Board of Development Securities PLC with 
effect from 1st March 2015. He will retain his position as a Director 
of Development Securities (Projects) Ltd, the main development 
subsidiary of the Group, and will be continuing his employment in that 
capacity on a reduced time basis.
No payments for loss of office are being made. 
From 1st March 2015, Julian will work the equivalent of a three-day 
week for which he will receive a salary. He will not receive any benefits 
or pension payments and will not participate in the LTIP. Whilst 
employed by Development Securities, he may participate in cash 
incentives on the same basis as other employees.
The treatment of outstanding incentive awards reflects that he continues 
to be employed by Development Securities, details are set out below:
 — No bonus payment will be made in respect of the financial year 
ending 28th February 2015.
 — The existing PSP award granted in May 2013 will continue, subject 
to the rules of the plan, vesting at the normal vesting date.
 — Julian Barwick has some outstanding DPP awards which were made 
in respect of assets acquired by Development Securities in previous 
financial periods. Payments are only made under this plan once 
profits are realised on these assets to ensure alignment with the 
value delivered to shareholders. As such, payments for legacy 
DPP awards will be made at the same time as they are made to 
other participants. In line with our approved Policy, no payments will 
be made post 1st March 2018.
On 24th February, we announced that Michael Marx will stand down as 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from the close of 
the 2015 Annual General Meeting scheduled to take place on 
14th July 2015. Michael will continue in a role as a Non-executive 
Director of the Company until 29th February 2016, when he will retire 
as a Director of the Board. From 15th July 2015, Michael will be paid 
an annual fee of £40,000 pro-rated, which is equivalent to our other 
Non-executive Directors.
No payments for loss of office are being made.
On 24th February, the Company also announced that Matthew Weiner 
will replace Michael Marx as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, 
and Richard Upton will become Deputy Chief Executive of the 
Company with both changes taking effect from the close of the 2015 
Annual General Meeting. At this point, their salaries will rise to 
£375,000 and £350,000 respectively. No other changes are being 
made to their remuneration packages. 94
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Executive Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement of 
one half of basic salary within two years of appointment, rising to 
an amount equivalent to one-times basic salary after four years. 
All Directors had met the shareholding threshold under this 
requirement at the date this report was approved, with the exception 
of Marcus Shepherd who held 94 per cent of the required threshold. 
Marcus will be in excess of the required threshold upon completion 
of the Group audit for the year ended 28th February 2015, when a 
percentage of his outstanding bonus award will be paid in shares.
From 1st March 2012, the Company introduced an additional 
shareholding requirement, which operates where significant success 
is achieved and rewarded via the Company’s focussed profit plans. 
Where payments under the profit plans exceed £1.0 million in a 
financial year, two-thirds of the payment above £1.0 million will be 
made in shares. This will apply if the Director’s shareholding is less 
than two-times salary. The amount paid in shares will be subject to 
a two-year retention period. 
The interests of all the Directors (together with interests held by his 
or her connected persons), all of which are beneficial, in the share 
capital of the Company, are:
Executive Directors
Shares owned outright 
as at 28th February 2015*
% of shareholding
guideline achieved**
Interest in shares/options
subject to performance
Interest in shares/options
subject to continued 
employment only 
M H Marx 577,031 364 279,201 –
M O Shepherd 60,390 94 151,233 10,044
C J Barwick 272,399 211 84,635 –
M S Weiner 171,933 127 88,542 10,044 
R Upton 2,745,716 4,070 – –
Non-executive Directors
D S Jenkins 34,325 – – –
S C Bates 45,000 – – –
N H Thomlinson 20,000 – – –
B Bennett 15,000 – – –
* Including shares held by connected persons.
** Calculation derived from the market value of 252 pence per share as at 28th February 2015.
Historical Total Shareholder Return performance
The graphs below demonstrate the Company’s TSR performance over six financial periods as represented by share price growth plus reinvested 
dividends, against both the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trust Index and the FTSE Real Estate Investment Services Index. The Company is a 
constituent of the FTSE Real Estate Investment Services Index, but a number of constituents of the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trust Index 
are also considered as within the Company’s peer group.
Historical Total Shareholder Return Performance
Dec 08
0
50
100
150
200
250
Dec 09 Dec 10 Feb 12 Feb 13 Feb 14 Feb 15
Development Securities FTSE Real Estate Investment Trust Index
Historical Total Shareholder Return Performance
Dec 08
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Dec 09 Dec 10 Feb 12 Feb 13 Feb 14 Feb 15
Development Securities FTSE Real Estate Investment Services Index
REMUNERATION REPORT continued 95
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration for previous five years 
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief 
Executive Officer for the same six year period as the TSR charts on 
page 94. The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the payout for 
each year as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
2009 2010 2012* 2013 2014 2015
Single total figure of 
remuneration (£’000) 767 865 714 487 882 1,002
Annual bonus 
(% of maximum) 80 63 21 – 67 86.7
L TIP vesting (% of 
maximum) – – – – – –
* As a result of the change in the Company’s year-end, amounts shown for 2012 are in respect 
of a 14-month period ending 29th February 2012, whereas all the other amounts are in 
respect of a twelve month financial period.
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and 
annual bonus, the percentage change in remuneration of the Chief 
Executive Officer compared to the wider workforce.
Chief Executive Wider workforce
% change % change
Salary 0.0 7.4
Taxable benefits 3.1 (0.5)
Annual Bonus 25.0 35.5
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out the overall expenditure on pay and total 
dividends and share buybacks paid in the year. 
2015 2014 % change
Dividends
1
6,989 5,868 19.1
Special Dividend
1
9,995 – –
Overall expenditure on pay
2
11,926 8,465 40.89
1 These figures have been extracted from Note 8 to the Accounts on page 125.
2 These figures have been extracted from Note 5 to the Accounts on page 124.
Role and constitution of the Committee
The Committee’s full terms of reference are set out on the Company’s 
website www.developmentsecurities.com and are available on request 
from the Company Secretary. Its principal role is to determine the total 
remuneration of the Executive Directors and to ensure that senior 
management remuneration is consistent with corporate policy.
Advisors 
The Committee sought professional advice from external remuneration 
consultants Deloitte LLP (who are members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code 
of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting). 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and 
independent. Deloitte’s fees for providing advice to the Remuneration 
Committee amounted to £90,400. Representatives of Deloitte LLP 
attended one meeting of the Committee by invitation during the year. 
Deloitte LLP provided no other services to the Company during 
the year. In addition, legal support was provided by Linklaters LLP. 
Linklaters fees for providing advice to the Committee amounted to 
£21,780. Linklaters LLP are also the Group’s principal legal advisor.
Michael Marx, Chief Executive Officer provided advice in respect of the 
remuneration of the other Executive Directors but was not in attendance 
when his own remuneration was discussed. 
The Remuneration Committee as constituted by the Board
The Committee met five times in the year under review.
Committee members
Considered  
Independent
Non-executive Director 
Meetings  
attended
Nick Thomlinson – Chairman Yes 5/5 
David Jenkins* – 4/5
Sarah Bates Yes 5/5
* David Jenkins absented himself from a meeting in respect of the Chairman’s fees
Following the Board evaluation process, the effectiveness of the 
Committee was reviewed and the Committee was considered to be 
operating effectively. No member has any personal financial interest 
in the matters to be decided. 96
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Statement of voting at the last AGM
The Company remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. The following table sets out 
the actual voting in respect of the binding and advisory votes to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting on 16th July 2014:
Resolution Votes for % of Vote Votes against % of Vote Votes Withheld
Approve Remuneration Report 100,143,871 97.1 2,991,127 2.9 9,336,271
Approve Remuneration Policy 96,066,754 85.5 16,327,899 14.5 76,616
Incentive awards outstanding at year-end
Details of incentive awards outstanding at the year-end are shown in the tables below:
Performance Share Plan (audited)
Date of grant
Market price at 
date of grant
Pence per share
28th February 2014
Number of shares Granted Lapsed Exercised
28th February 2015
Number of shares Final vesting date
M H Marx 29.05.12 130.50 227,273 – (227,273) – – 28.02.15
29.05.13 201.00 156,250 – – – 156,250 29.02.16
22.05.14 244.00 – 122,951 – – 122,951 28.02.17
C J Barwick 29.05.12 130.50 123,106 – (123,106) – – 28.02.15
29.05.13 201.00 84,635 – – – 84,635 29.02.16
M S Weiner 29.05.12 130.50 128,788 – (128,788) – – 28.02.15
29.05.13 201.00 88,542 – – – 88,542 29.02.16
M O Shepherd 29.05.13 201.00 84,635 – – – 84,635 29.02.16
22.05.14 244.00 – 66,598 – – 66,598 28.02.17
Options (audited)
28th February 
2014
Number of 
options Granted Lapsed Exercised
28th February 
2015
Number of 
options
Exercise price 
Pence per 
share
Market price  
at exercise
Pence per 
share
Gain on 
exercise
Pence per 
share
Date  
from which 
exercisable Expiry date
M H Marx
Savings-related scheme* 5,921 – – (5,921) – 152.00 220.55 68.55 01.12.14 31.05.15
M S Weiner 
Executive option scheme 1995 69,382 – (69,382) – – 347.50 – – 19.04.07 18.04.14 
Savings-related scheme* 5,921 – – (5,921) – 152.00 220.55 68.55 01.12.14 31.05.15
Savings-related scheme* – 10,044 – – 10,044 179.20 – – 01.02.18 31.07.18
M O Shepherd
Savings-related scheme* – 10,044 – – 10,044 179.20 – – 01.02.18 31.07.18
* These options are not subject to performance conditions. The options may be exercised after three years at a price not less than 80.0 per cent of the market value of the shares at the time 
of invitation.
REMUNERATION REPORT continued 97
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Development Profit Plan (audited)
Awards granted in previous years
C J Barwick M S Weiner
Project % award % of award
10 Hammersmith Grove, London 3.5 –
328 Sandbanks Road, Dorset – 6.0
Airport House, Croydon – 6.5
Braehead – 6.5
Central London Property, London 2.0 4.0
Chorlton Cross Shopping Centre, Manchester – 6.0
Cross Quarter, Abbey Wood – 4.5
Deeley Freed – 6.0
Friarsgate Shopping Centre, Lichfield – 1.0
Kensington Church Street, London – 6.0
Luneside – 10.0
Market Place, Romford – 4.0
Morden Wharf – 6.0
North London Office Portfolio – 3.0
Percy Place, Dublin – 6.0
Romford (Tollgate House & Market Place) – 4.0
Shepherd’s Bush Market, London 1.0 5.5
South Woodham Ferrers, Essex – 4.5
Southampton 4.0 –
The Movement, Greenwich – 7.0
The Old Vinyl Factory, Hayes – 6.0
The Square, Hale Barns, Cheshire – 6.5
Tubs Hill House, Sevenoaks – 4.0
Valentines House, Ilford – 6.5
Wick Lane Wharf – 6.0
Awards granted during the year (audited)
M S Weiner
Project % Award
Axis Tower Manchester 6.0
Barnstaple – Phase 1 3.0
Barnstaple – Phase 2 2.0
Barwood – BDSL 7.0
Barwood – BLEL 7.0
Beyond Green – Norwich 6.0
Beyond Green – Pincents Hill 7.0
Burlington House 6.5
Charlemont Clinic 6.5
Colston Tower 5.0
Donnybrook House 6.5
Moreton Woods 3.0
Pembroke Road 5.0
Robswall 5.5
Cathedral Projects 5.0
Chill Factor
e
, Manchester 5.0
Rembrandt House, Watford 6.0
Wessex – Marsh Mills 5.0
Wessex – Launceston 2.0
Wind Farms 5.0
Woking 3.5
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
N H Thomlinson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
29th April 2015 98
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
The Company’s share capital represents a single class of shares, with 
all shares ranking equally and fully paid. Details of the share capital are 
set out in note 20 on pages 149 and 150.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are specified in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, or alternatively may be governed 
by statute. There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the 
Company other than those specified by law or regulation. There are 
no restrictions on voting rights other than as specified by the Articles 
of Association.
Three resolutions relating to share capital will be proposed as Special 
Business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The full text of 
the resolutions can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting. 
At a General Meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on 
a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held. The 
Notice of General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting 
rights, either by proxy or being present in person, in relation to the 
resolutions proposed at the General Meeting.
Purchase of the Company’s shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 16th July 2014, members 
authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 12,223,371 
of its own Ordinary shares of 50 pence each. That authority expires at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company in July 2015 
when a resolution will put to it to renew it so as to allow purchases of 
up to a maximum of no more than 10 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital. No shares in the Company have been purchased by the 
Company in the period from 16th July 2014 (the date the current 
authority was granted) to the date of this Report. The Company 
currently holds 1 18,792 shares in treasury. 
Change of control
The Company has entered into significant agreements with its 
commercial partners, which contain change of control clauses and 
which may give rise to termination or renegotiation in that event. 
If enforced, the Company may be deprived of potential future 
earning capacity from such schemes. The Company is party to a 
number of committed bank facilities which, upon a change of 
control, are terminable at the banks’ discretion. In addition, under 
such circumstances, the Company’s share option schemes would 
normally vest or become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of 
the performance conditions.
Corporate Governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found in 
the Corporate Governance Report on pages 69 to 79 of the Annual 
Report. The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this Report 
and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Share option schemes 
On 22nd December 2014, a grant was made under the Save As You 
Earn Option Plan 2005 for a total of 321,275 options over shares at 
179.2 pence per share to 57 members of staff. All employees of the 
Company are eligible to participate in the Save As You Earn Option 
Plan. Further details of the share option schemes are contained on 
pages 149 to 150 and in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97.
The Directors present their report and the audited 
consolidated financial statements for the financial year 
ended 28th February 2015.
This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements 
are not guarantees of future performance, rather they are based on 
current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, 
uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ 
from any future results or developments, expressed or implied from the 
forward-looking statements.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company. 
The principal activities of the Group during the year were property 
investment and development, investment and trading.
Incorporation
Development Securities PLC is incorporated in Great Britain and 
registered in England and Wales, registration number 1528784.
Business review and future developments
A review of the Group’s operations, the current state of the business 
and future prospects, including financial and non-financial key 
performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties, is 
contained within the Strategic Report, and should be read in 
conjunction with this report. Further details of the financial and 
non-financial key performance indicators, the principal risks, and 
the information which comprises the business review as required 
by Section 417(1) of the Companies Act 2006 may be found in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 68.
Results and dividends
The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders amounted 
to £33,276,000 (28th February 2014: £18,236,000). An interim 
Ordinary dividend of £2,995,000 representing 2.4 pence per Ordinary 
share was paid on 27th November 2014 (29th November 2013: 
£2,934,000 representing 2.4 pence per Ordinary share). A special 
dividend of £10.0 million representing 8.0 pence per share was paid on 
7th April 2015 to shareholders on the register on 6th March 2015. The 
Board recommends a final Ordinary dividend of 3.5 pence per Ordinary 
share amounting to £4,373,000 payable on 20 August 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at 24th July 2015 (22th August 2014: 
£3,91 1,000 representing 3.2 pence per Ordinary share). Subject to 
shareholder approval, this makes a total dividend payment of 13.9 
pence per Ordinary share for the financial year, increased from the 
previous year (2014: 5.6 pence per Ordinary share).
Group structure
Details of the Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are disclosed 
on page 138.
Operations outside the UK
The Group currently operates or has subsidiaries, associates or 
joint ventures which are located in The Netherlands, Luxembourg 
and Ireland.
Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital at 28th February 2015 consisted 
of 124,938,21 1 Ordinary shares of 50 pence each and 1 18,792 shares 
held in treasury which do not have a dividend or voting entitlement. 
During the period under review the Company allotted 129,383 shares 
to members of staff in connection with the exercise of options under 
the Company’s Save As You Earn Scheme. A further 14,208 shares 
were allotted under the Scheme post year-end. These shares were 
allotted from the block listing maintained in respect of these options. 
At the date of this Report, 125,071,21 1 Ordinary shares of 50 pence 
each have been issued (including 1 18,792 shares held in treasury) 
and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 99
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of 
the shareholders.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 14th July 2015 at 
12.00 noon on the 14th Floor, Portland House, Bressenden Place, 
London SW1E 5DS.
At the Annual General Meeting, the following resolutions will be proposed:
Ordinary Resolution 1 – Report and Accounts
The Directors will present the financial statements and Reports of the 
Directors and Auditors for the financial year ended 28th February 2015.
Ordinary Resolution 2 – To approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
In accordance with the directors’ remuneration reporting regime as set 
out in Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended), the 
Company’s 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report comprises the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Annual Statement, the Annual 
Report on Remuneration (the Annual Remuneration Report) and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the Policy).
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM and took effect from 1st March 2015. The Policy is 
subject to a shareholder vote at least once every three years and, 
subject to any proposed changes being required, will next be laid 
before shareholders for approval at the AGM in 2017. The Company is 
not able to make remuneration or loss of office payments to a current 
or past Director, unless the payment is consistent with the approved 
Policy or has been otherwise approved by shareholders.
Resolution 2 seeks shareholder approval for the Annual Remuneration 
Report. This is set out on pages 80 to 97 of the Directors’ Report and 
financial statements and sets out details on how our Directors were 
paid in the financial year ended 28th February 2015 and how their pay 
will be structured in the financial year ended 29th February 2016. The 
Annual Remuneration Report will be prepared on an annual basis and 
is subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
Ordinary Resolutions 3 to 10 – Re-election of Directors
The Directors seek to maintain the highest standards of corporate 
governance and, in accordance with the recommendations of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will voluntarily retire 
and those wishing to serve again shall submit themselves for re-
election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The 
Chairman is satisfied that, following individual formal performance 
evaluations, the performance of the Directors standing for re-election 
continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role. 
The Nomination Committee has considered each of the Non-executive 
Directors seeking re-election and concluded that their collective 
background, skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Company enables the Board and Committees to discharge their 
respective duties and responsibilities effectively. The workings of the 
Board and Committees are more particularly detailed in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 69 to 79. Biographical details of all 
the Directors appear on pages 70 and 71 of the Annual Report.
Ordinary Resolution 11 – Declaration of final dividend
A final dividend can only be paid after the shareholders at a general 
meeting have approved it. A final dividend of 3.5 pence per Ordinary 
share is recommended by the Directors for payment to shareholders 
who are on the register at the close of business on 24th July 2015.
Directors
The Directors serving during the year and up to the date of signing the 
Group financial statements were as follows:
D S Jenkins Chairman
M H Marx Chief Executive Officer
M O Shepherd Finance Director
C J Barwick Executive Director 
(resigned with effect from 1st March 2015)
M S Weiner Executive Director
R Upton Executive Director 
(appointed 19th May 2014)
S C Bates Independent Non-executive Director
N H Thomlinson Independent Non-executive Director
B J Bennett Non-executive Director 
(appointed 19th May 2014)
Brief biographical details of the Directors are shown on pages 
70 and 71.
All Directors will retire at the 2015 Annual General Meeting and, 
being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election. The Directors are 
voluntarily offering themselves for re-election as a matter of best 
practice in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Following the performance evaluation of the Board, all Directors 
were judged to have made a significant contribution to the Board’s 
deliberations, reflecting their commitment to the role. The rules that 
the Company has governing the appointment and replacement of 
Directors are contained in its Articles of Association.
Conflicts of interest
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation 
where he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that 
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Company’s interests. The 
Directors are required to submit any potential or actual conflicts of 
interest they may have with the Company to the Board for approval. 
No conflicts of this sort have arisen during the year under review. 
Directors’ service contracts and interests in the 
Company’s shares
The details of Directors’ service contracts and the interests in the 
shares of the Company of the Directors who were in office as at 
28th February 2015 are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 80 to 97.
None of the Directors had any material interest in any contract that 
was significant in relation to the Group’s business at any time during 
the year, other than a service contract, and as disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report.
Related party transactions
Related party transactions between the Directors and the Company 
are set out in note 27 on page 154. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
Article 153 of the Company’s Articles of Association provides, among 
other things, that, insofar as permitted by law, every Director shall be 
indemnified by the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, 
losses or liabilities incurred in the execution and discharge of the 
Directors’ duties, power or office. The Company maintains, at its 
expense, a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy at an 
adequate level which is reviewed annually. This insurance policy does 
not provide cover where a Director or Officer is proved to have acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly.
This third party indemnity insurance was in force during the financial 
year and also at the date of approval of the financial statements. 100
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
further shares in connection with a fully pre-emptive offer by way of 
a rights issue to shareholders up to a further aggregate nominal 
amount of £20,823,320, representing approximately one third (33.33 
per cent) of the Company’s issued Ordinary share capital (excluding 
shares held in treasury) and calculated as at 28th April 2015 (being 
the last practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting). As at 28th April 2015 (being the last practicable 
date prior to publication of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting), 
the Company held 1 18,792 shares in treasury which represent 
approximately 0.10 per cent of the total Ordinary share capital of 
the Company in issue (excluding shares held in treasury).
The Directors are currently giving consideration to the possible 
exercise of this authority. The Directors consider it desirable to have 
the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines 
to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take 
place to finance business opportunities as they arise. Accordingly, the 
Directors intend to renew this authority annually.
Special Resolution 16 – Disapplication of pre-emption rights
Under Section 561(1) of the Companies Act 2006, if the Directors 
wish to allot any shares and other relevant securities, grant rights over 
shares, or sell treasury shares for cash (other than in connection with 
an employee share scheme), they must in the first instance offer them 
to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings. The Directors 
seek authority to renew the disapplication of shareholders’ pre-emptive 
rights. The purpose of paragraph (i) of Resolution 16 is to authorise 
the Directors to allot any shares pursuant to the authority given by 
paragraph (a) of Resolution 15 for cash either (a) in connection with a 
pre-emptive offer or rights issue or (b) otherwise up to an aggregate 
nominal value of £3,126,780 (being equivalent to 5.0 per cent of the 
total issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at 28th April 
2015 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting)) and which includes the sale 
on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in treasury, in each 
case without the shares first being offered to existing members in 
proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of paragraph (ii) of Resolution 16 is to authorise the 
Directors to allot any shares pursuant to the authority given by 
paragraph (b) of Resolution 15 for cash in connection with a rights 
issue without the shares first being offered to existing members in 
proportion to their existing holdings. This is in line with corporate 
governance guidelines issued by the Pre-emption Group. The Board 
considers the authority sought to be appropriate in order to allow 
the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to 
conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply 
with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions. 
The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption 
Group’s Statement of Principles not to allot shares on a non pre-
emptive basis (other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive 
offer) in excess of an amount equal to 7.5 per cent of the total issued 
Ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling three-year 
period without prior consultation with shareholders.
Special Resolution 17 – Notice period for general meetings
The Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 increased 
the notice period for general meetings of a company to 21 clear days 
unless shareholders approve a shorter period, which cannot be less 
than 14 clear days.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 16th July 
2014, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings, other 
than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear days’ notice. 
Resolution 17 seeks the approval of shareholders to renew the 
authority to be able to call general meetings (other than an Annual 
General Meeting) on 14 clear days’ notice. The shorter notice period 
would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only 
Ordinary Resolutions 12 and 13 – Re-appointment 
and remuneration of auditor
Resolutions 12 and 13 propose the re-appointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditor of the Company and 
authorise the Directors to set their remuneration.
Special Resolution 14 – Authority to purchase own shares
The Company is seeking authority to purchase up to 10.0 per cent 
of the Company’s issued Ordinary share capital at, or between, the 
minimum and maximum prices specified in this Resolution. This power 
would only be used after careful consideration by the Directors, 
having taken into account market conditions prevailing at that time, the 
investment needs of the Company, its opportunity for expansion and 
its overall financial position. The Directors have no present intention 
of making any market purchases of the Company’s shares, but if they 
believed such action to be in the best interests of shareholders and 
would enhance net assets or earnings per share, they would consider 
exercising their authority. As at 28th April 2015 (being the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General 
Meeting), the Company has an unexpired authority to repurchase 
12,223,371 Ordinary shares of which 12,223,371 Ordinary shares 
remain outstanding.
As at 28th April 2015 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
publication of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting), the total 
number of options to subscribe for shares in the capital of the Company 
was 321,985 (approximately 0.26 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital and approximately 0.29 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital if the full authority proposed by Resolution 14 was used).
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its 
own shares in treasury following a buyback, instead of cancelling 
them. Such shares may be resold for cash or used for the purpose of 
employee share schemes, but all rights attaching to them, including 
voting rights and any right to receive dividends, are suspended whilst 
they are held in treasury. Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the 
authority conferred by Resolution 14, the Company will have the 
option of holding these shares in treasury, rather than cancelling them. 
The authority sought at the Annual General Meeting will expire at the 
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 
1st September 2016 (being the latest date by which the Company 
must hold an Annual General Meeting in 2016). The Company 
currently holds 1 18,792 shares in treasury.
Ordinary Resolution 15 – Allotment of shares
The Directors may only allot Ordinary shares or grant rights over 
Ordinary shares if authorised to do so by shareholders. The authority 
granted to the Directors at the Company’s previous Annual General 
Meeting in 2014 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or 
convert any securities into shares is due to expire at the conclusion of 
this year’s Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, the Directors will be 
seeking new authority under Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
to allot shares (including treasury shares) or grant rights to subscribe 
for, or to convert any security into shares, which will expire at the 
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 
on 1st September 2016 (being the latest date by which the Company 
must hold an Annual General Meeting in 2016).
If passed, paragraph (a) of Resolution 15 would give the Directors 
authority to allot Ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or 
convert any security into, Ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £20,823,320 representing approximately one third (33.33 
per cent) of the Company’s issued Ordinary share capital (excluding 
shares held in treasury) and calculated as at 28th April 2015 (being 
the last practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting). In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines 
issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), paragraph (b) of 
Resolution 15, if passed, would give the Directors authority to allot 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued 101
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
Shares %
Aberdeen Asset Management plc 21,643,339 17.34
FIL Limited 14,883,732 12.17
Blackrock, Inc. 13,384,761 10.72
Schroders plc 7,112,080 5.69
F&C Asset Management plc 5,875,946 4.71
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5,722,553 4.68
Human rights
This Report does not contain information about any policies of the 
Company in relation to human rights issues since it is not considered 
necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or 
position of the Group’s business activity due to the existing regulatory 
requirements in the UK. The Company does have policies which 
adhere to internationally proclaimed human rights principles.
In the year to 28th February 2015, the Group is not aware of any 
incident in which the Group’s activities have resulted in an abuse of 
human rights.
Employees
The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity in all forms and is 
committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment. Current 
and potential employees are offered the same opportunities regardless 
of gender, race, colour, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, sexual 
orientation, marital status or disability. It is the Group’s policy to apply 
best practice in the employment of disabled people, including, 
wherever possible, the retraining and retention of staff who become 
disabled during their employment.
As at 28th February 2015, gender diversity within the Company was 
as follows: 
Gender diversity
2
1 Board
1. Female 1 (12.5%)
2. Male 7 (87.5%)
2
1 Senior Management
1. Female 4 (18.2%)
2. Male 16 (81.8%)
2
1 Total Workforce
1. Female 76 (56.3%)
2. Male 59 (43.7%)
where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is 
thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole. If the 
proposals at a given meeting are not time sensitive, the Company 
will not normally use the shorter notice period. The approval will be 
effective until the Company’s next Annual General Meeting, when it is 
expected that a similar resolution will be proposed. It should also be 
noted that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in 
order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ 
notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available 
to all shareholders for that meeting.
Ordinary Resolution 18 – Political donations
Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, amongst other things, prohibits 
the Company and its subsidiaries from making political donations or 
from incurring political expenditure in respect of a political party or 
other political organisation or an independent election candidate 
unless authorised by the Company’s shareholders. Aggregate 
donations made by the Group of £5,000 or less in any twelve-month 
period will not be caught.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any intention of 
making any political donation or incurring any political expenditure. 
However, the Companies Act 2006 defines ‘political organisation’, 
‘political party’, ‘political donation’ and ‘political expenditure’ widely. 
Accordingly, the Company wishes to ensure that neither it nor its 
subsidiaries inadvertently commits any breaches of the Companies Act 
2006 through the undertaking of routine activities, which would not 
normally be considered to result in the making of political donations 
and political expenditure being incurred.
The Resolution authorises the Company and its subsidiaries to:
 — make political donations to political parties or independent election 
candidates, not exceeding £10,000 in total;
 — make political donations to political organisations, other than political 
parties, not exceeding £10,000 in total; and
 — incur political expenditure, not exceeding £10,000 in total, provided 
that the aggregate amount of any such donations and expenditure 
shall not exceed £10,000 during the period beginning with the date 
of the passing of the Resolution and ending on the date of the 
Company’s next Annual General Meeting.
Financial risk management
Disclosures in respect of financial risk management objectives and 
exposures are set out in note 18 d) to the financial statements on 
pages 145 to 148.
Financial instruments
Details of the financial instruments used by the Group and the 
Company are set out in note 18 to the accounts on pages 140 to 148.
Charitable and political donations
Charitable donations during the year were £46,41 1 (28th February 
2014: £38,210). The Group supported a number of charities serving 
the community in which the Group operates. These included national 
and local charitable organisations and covered a wide range of causes 
including education, public services, community support schemes and 
events organised on behalf of major charities.
Significant shareholdings
At the date of this Report, the Directors have been notified of the 
interests in 3.0 per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital 
shown in the following table. These interests were notified to the 
Company pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5. 102
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
An intensity ratio of GHG emissions per square foot of investment 
property managed and property occupied by the Company is reported.
Intensity Ratio  
(tCO
2
e/sq.ft)
Reporting year ended
28th February 2015
Reporting year ended
28th February 2014
GHG emissions per 
square foot 0.001 0.002
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
report confirms that:
1. So far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
2. He/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as
a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of
that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Chris Barton
Company Secretary
29th April 2015
Employee engagement
The Group recognises the importance of the involvement of its 
employees and keeps them regularly informed on matters affecting 
them through various media, including display of notices in communal 
areas, memoranda and emails, presentations, meetings and the 
Company’s website.
It is the Directors’ belief that employees are instrumental in the 
continued improvement in the Group’s performance and they are 
committed to encouraging and facilitating the continuing professional 
development of employees to ensure they are equipped to perform 
their particular roles. Training and development is provided and 
available to all employees.
The Company operates a number of share option schemes which seek 
to incentivise and reward employees for the sustainable creation of 
shareholder value over the longer term.
Independent auditors
Our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated their 
willingness to continue in office. The Board, on the advice of the Audit 
Committee, recommends their re-appointment, and a resolution that 
they be re-appointed will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events
Details of events which have occurred since 28th February 2015 and 
up to the date of this report are disclosed in note 29 to the financial 
statements on page 156.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Company has reported greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in line 
with the requirements set out in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. The Company’s GHG 
emissions are reported based on an operational control boundary for 
sources of emissions falling within the Group’s Consolidated financial 
statements. The reporting period for GHG emissions is 1st March 2014 
to 28th February 2015, which aligns with the financial reporting year 
covered by the Directors’ Report.
The Company has used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition), and Defra GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014, for the financial year ending 
28th February 2015 to calculate its GHG emissions.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions Scope (tCO
2
e)
Reporting year ended
28th February 2015
Reporting year ended
28th February 2014
Scope 1
a,b,d
46 193 
Scope 2
c,d
733 1,358
Total 779 1,551 
a  Scope 1 covers emissions from direct combustion of fuel from operation of properties and 
Company owned vehicles.
b  Fugitive emissions data from use of air conditioning was not available for this report. In the 
absence of data it was considered that a reasonable estimation could not be calculated 
based on the limited information available. 
c  Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity purchased for own use. There were no purchases 
of heat, steam and cooling for own use in the reporting period.
d  Where gas/electricity consumption data was not available to cover all months of the 
reporting period, an estimation of the emissions has been calculated using an average of 
gas/electricity consumption from the available data for properties within the reporting scope. 
This method of estimation was applied to approximately 50 per cent of properties in scope.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued 103
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC 103 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC 
Report on the Group financial statements 
Overview 
Materiality 
Scope 
Areas of focus 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Development Securities PLC’s Group financial statements (the “financial statements”): 
— give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 28th February 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
— have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and 
— have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
Development Securities PLC’s financial statements comprise: 
— the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 28th February 2015; 
— the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;  
— the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended;  
— the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended; and 
— the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union. 
Our audit approach 
— Overall Group materiality: £4.8 million which represents 0.75 per cent of total assets. 
— Specific materiality of £1.3 million has been calculated being 5.0 per cent of the profit before tax excluding 
investment property valuation movements and profits on disposal of investment properties. 
— The Group team carries out the work on all the components of the Group and the consolidation for the purposes of 
the Group audit. 
— Valuation of investment properties due to significance and subjectivity. 
— Valuation of development and trading properties due to significance and subjectivity. 
— Acquisition and fair value of Cathedral Group due to the complexity in accounting and fair value judgements. 
— Recoverability of financial assets due to the subjectivity around recoverability. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at 
where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management over ride of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due t o fraud.  
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 
“areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion 
on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Valuation of investment properties 
The Group’s investment properties were valued at £203.3 million as 
at 28th February 2015 and a revaluation gain of £7.6 million was 
accounted for under ‘Gain on revaluation of property portfolio’ in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The portfolio 
consists of a variety of assets located throughout the UK and Ireland, 
predominantly retail units and shopping centres. 
The majority of valuations are carried out by third party valuers in 
accordance with the RICS Valuation – Professional Standards and 
IAS 40. A small proportion of the portfolio (£18.4 million) is valued 
internally by the Directors. 
There are significant judgements and estimates inherent in the 
valuation of the Group’s investment properties. Where available, 
the valuations take into account evidence of market transactions 
The external valuers used by the Group are DTZ Debenham Tie Leung, 
Savills Commercial Limited, GVA Grimley Limited and Ryden LLP. We 
assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the firms and 
verified their qualifications by discussing the scope of their work and 
reviewing the terms of their engagements for unusual terms or fee 
arrangements. Based on this work, we are satisfied that the firms  
remain independent.  
We met with the valuers both with management and independently 
of management and obtained the valuation reports to discuss and 
challenge the valuation methodology and assumptions.  
We gained comfort over the property info rmation in the valuation by agreeing a 
sample of inputs to the underlying property records and accounts held by the 
Group. Our testing included agreeing rental income, acquisitions and capital 
expenditure, to supporting documentation. 
Audit scope
Areas of
focus
Materiality 104
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC continued 104 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC CONTINUED
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
for properties and locations comparable to those of the 
Group’s properties. 
The most significant judgements and estimates affecting all the 
valuations include yields and estimated rental value (“ERV”) growth 
(as described in note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
Yields and ERVs have moved favourably, with London and the South 
East seeing a significant improvement in the market during the year. 
The remainder of the UK has witnessed modest growth from the prior 
year. The revaluation gain was also impacted by new lettings at 
individual assets. 
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the 
fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property 
valuations when aggregated could result in material misstatement, is 
why we have given specific audit focus and attention to this area.  
(Refer also to note 10 to the financial statements.) 
We found that yield rates and ERVs were predominantly consistent with 
comparable benchmarking information for the locations of the assets 
and assumptions appropriately reflected available comparable market 
transactions. Where assumptions did not fall within our expected range, 
we assessed whether additional evidence presented in arriving at the 
final valuation was appropriate, and, whether this was robustly 
challenged by the external independent valuers. We were satisfied that 
variances were predominantly due to property specific factors such as 
new lettings at higher rents or capital improvements to the properties. 
We discussed the valuation and the related gain in the year with 
management regarding the movements that were outside of our initial 
independently formed expectations and found that they were able to 
provide explanations and refer to appropriate supporting evidence. 
Valuation of development and trading properties 
The Group’s development and trading properties were valued at 
£217.4 million as at 28th February 2015. These properties are held 
at the lower of cost and net realisable value, in accordance with IAS 2 
– Inventory. As qualifying costs are incurred on existing
developments, these are added to the asset balance.
The portfolio consists of a variety of assets located throughout the 
UK and Ireland, and includes certain assets acquired prior to the 
economic downturn of 2008, which could indicate a higher risk that 
the carrying value is lower than net realisable value.  
The UK property market has improved during the year, reducing the 
risk of impairment across the portfolio due to market conditions. 
However, a change in conditions for specific assets or a relatively 
small percentage change in the market could result in a material 
impact to the financial statements.  
(Refer also to note 15 to the financial statements.) 
Management performed an assessment of the net realisable value by 
producing and reviewing development appraisals for each individual 
property. We assessed the competence and capabilities of management 
and are satisfied that the individuals are sufficiently qualified.  
We met with management to understand the status and future 
plans for each asset and challenge the key assumptions inherent 
in the appraisals. 
We sensitised cost and revenue assumptions on significant 
developments, and compared assumptions to readily-available market 
data and recent comparable market transactions. Where applicable due 
to the advanced stage of the development, we also agreed third party 
documentation supporting the book value through a review of pre-letting 
agreements, forward sales, quantity surveyor cost to complete 
estimates, board minutes and planning consent forms.  
Based on the work performed, we were satisfied that development and 
trading properties were valued in accordance with the Group 
Accounting Policies. 
Acquisition and fair value of Cathedral 
In May 2014, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued shares 
in Cathedral Group (Holdings) Limited, Cathedral Special Projects 
(Holdings) Limited and Cathedral (ESCO) Limited and 95 per cent 
of the shares issued in Deadhare Limited.  
The Cathedral Group consists of nine ongoing development projects, 
including two pre-existing partnerships with Development 
Securities PLC.  
We focused on this area given the judgement surrounding the fair 
value acquisition accounting and complexity involving the pre-existing 
joint venture arrangements with certain Cathedral companies.  
(Refer also to note 26 to the financial statements.) 
We read the acquisition documents and checked that they were 
reflected in how the acquisition was accounted for. Specifically, we: 
— agreed the initial cash payments, and later payments of contingent 
consideration to bank statements; 
— tested acquisition costs to third party invoices; 
— traced the shares issued as consideration to the share register and 
confirmed the valuation of share price; and 
— checked the deferred consideration to the acquisition agreement. 
We also performed audit procedures on management’s fair value 
exercise and the quantification of the resulting goodwill.  
The significant fair value adjustments related to development 
and trading properties, deferred tax and the pre-existing joint 
venture relationship. 
The development and trading assets were externally valued on 
acquisition by external RICs approved valuers, CBRE Limited and we 
were able to agree their valuation to the acquisition accounting analysis. 
We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the firm 
and verified their qualifications by discussing the scope of their work 
and reviewing the terms of their engagements for unusual terms or 
fee arrangements. We are satisfied that the firm remains independent. 
We also tested management’s calculation of deferred tax relating to  105
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
105 
How we tailored the audit scope 
Materiality 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
this fair value adjustment and were satisfied that it was accounted 
for appropriately. 
We tested the fair values assigned to the pre-existing equity interest 
held by Development Securities in the Cathedral joint ventures and the 
financial asset.  
We considered the post-acquisition performance of the Cathedral 
properties and challenged management as to whether this provided 
more evidence of any circumstances or conditions in existence at the 
acquisition date, especially given the profit realised on Telegraph Works. 
We were satisfied that this profit was driven by post-acquisition events 
and decisions of the management team such as changing the business 
plan for the asset. 
Recoverability of financial assets 
The Group holds a number of loans with joint ventures, associates 
and other third parties that must be assessed for recoverability at 
each period end. Financial assets totalled £39.0 million at 28th 
February 2015, split between £37.3 million in non-current and 
£1.7 million within current assets.  
There continues to be risk associated with certain financial assets 
and in particular the future development of the Curzon Park site and 
how much of this will be subject to compulsory purchase order as 
part of HS2 and how much residual land will remain for development. 
There is also judgement involved as to the recoverability of 
the working capital and project-specific loans to Northpoint 
Developments, which rely on a number of property developments 
being completed over the next five year period. 
We focused on this area as recoverability is assessed through cash 
flow models, which can be complex with a number of different inputs 
and judgement involved.  
(Refer also to note 18 to the financial statements.) 
We reviewed the controls in place for issuing new loans and evidenced 
the Board approval obtained. We assessed management’s assessment 
of recoverability by reviewing cash flow projections over the next five 
years for each of the significant loans. We benchmarked and sensitised 
management’s assumptions and expectations for cash flow projections 
and challenged the underlying property appraisals, where relevant.  
Based on this work, we were satisfied that the financial assets 
are recoverable. 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates.  
The Group is structured across 275 statutory entities and joint ventures in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey, the Netherlands and 
Luxembourg. These statutory entities and joint ventures represent the reporting units, which are included in the Group financial statements. 
The preparation of the Group financial statements is managed on a consolidated basis, and the audit team carries out all the work on all the 
components of the Group and the consolidation for the purposes of the Group audit. In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we 
assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood or potential magnitude of any misstatement. Following this 
assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements. 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to 
evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.   106
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC continued 106 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC CONTINUED
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall Group materiality £4.8 million (2014: £4.4 million) 
How we determined it 0.75 per cent of total assets. 
Specific materiality £1.3 million (2014: £1.1 million) 
How we determined it 5.0 per cent of the profit before tax excluding investment property 
valuation movements and profits on disposal of investment properties. 
Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant of the Group’s value is 
direct property investments. Due to this, the key areas of focus in the 
audit are the valuation of investment properties and assessment of net 
realisable value for development and trading properties.  
In addition, a number of key performance indicators of the Group are 
driven by income statement items and we therefore also applied a lower 
specific materiality for income statement items other than revaluation 
gains and profits on disposal of investment properties. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £240,000 (2014: 
£220,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to 
report having performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 
Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that 
the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinions 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
— information in the Annual Report is: 
— materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
— apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
— otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
— the statement given by the Directors on page 79, in accordance 
with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the 
Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to 
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the group’s performance, business 
model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of 
the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
— the section of the Annual Report on page 75, as required by 
provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  107
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
107 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Other matter 
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with 
ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:  
— whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
— the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
— the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report. 
We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Development Securities PLC for the year ended 28th February 2015 and 
on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
29th April 2015  108
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
108 137
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
2015 
Headline 
 £’000 
Exceptional 
items 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
203,740 – 203,740
(150,769) – (150,769)
52,971 – 52,971
(17,868) – (17,868)
3,843 – 3,843
7,824 – 7,824
46,770 – 46,770
175 – 175
– (2,724) (2,724)
2,875 – 2,875
521 – 521
(86) – (86)
(20) – (20)
50,235 (2,724) 47,511
7,914 – 7,914
(12,751) – (12,751)
– (7,917) (7,917)
45,398 (10,641) 34,757
(2,410) 1,676 (734)
42,988 (8,965) 34,023
33,276
747
34,023
34,023
7,647
(2,263)
(2,459)
36,948
36,201
747
36,948
26.8p
26.8p
2014 
Notes 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 2 79,343
Direct costs 2 (51,544)
Gross profit  2 27,799
Operating costs 2 (14,029)
Gain on disposal of investment properties 2 539
Gain on revaluation of property portfolio 10/11 3,109
Operating profit 4 17,418
Other income 471
Exceptional item 
– Acquisition costs associated with business combination 26 –
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 14(b) 12,834
Profit on sale of joint venture –
Loss from sale of investment (250)
(Loss)/profit on sale of other plant and equipment 34
Profit/(loss) before interest and income tax 30,507
Finance income  6(a) 2,552
Finance costs  6(b) (13,532)
Exceptional item 
– Termination of cross currency interest rate swap 18(c) –
Profit/(loss) before income tax 19,527
Income tax  7 (1,288)
Profit for the year 18,239
Profit attributable to: 
Owners of the Parent 18,236
Non-controlling interest 3
18,239
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Profit for the year 18,239
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 
Gain on valuation of cross-currency interest rate swap 18(c) 1,798
Currency translation differences (104)
Deferred income tax charge 7/19 (415)
Total comprehensive income for the year 19,518
Attributable to: 
Owners of the Parent 19,515
Non-controlling interest 3
19,518
Basic earnings per share attributable to the Parent* 9 14.9p
Diluted earnings per share attributable to the Parent* 9 14.9p
* Adjusted earnings per share from continuing activities is given in note 9. 
All amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income relate to continuing operations. 
The notes on pages 112 to 156 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 109
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
109 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
2015 
£’000 £’000 
203,336 
820 
4,238 
208,394 
8,253 
40,544 
2,059 
37,261 
88,117 
2,402 
1,588 
3,990 
300,501 
217,474 
1,700 
44,834 
19,380 
59,949 
343,337 
– 
643,838 
(73,897)
(2,547)
(36,020)
(250)
(112,714) 
(9,857)
(169,012)
(21)
(3,442)
(2,412)
(184,744) 
(297,458) 
346,380 
62,529 
104,094 
48,677 
130,358 
345,658 
722 
346,380 
276p/276p 
M H Marx 
2014 
Notes £’000 £’000 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Direct real estate interests 
Investment properties 10 159,693 
Operating property 11 680 
Trade and other receivables 16(a) 7,652 
168,025 
Indirect real estate interests 
Investments in associates 14(a) 4,276 
Investments in joint ventures  14(b) 31,780 
Intangible assets – goodwill 12 238 
Loans to joint operations and other real estate businesses 18(a) 28,202 
64,496 
Other non-current assets 
Other plant and equipment 13 2,797 
Deferred income tax assets 19 362 
3,159 
Total non-current assets 235,680 
CURRENT ASSETS  
Inventory – development and trading properties  15 192,483 
Other financial assets 18(a) 1,700 
Trade and other receivables 16(b) 40,835 
Monies held in restricted accounts and deposits 27,263 
Cash and cash equivalents  40,051 
302,332 
Investment properties held for sale 10 42,410 
Total assets 580,422 
CURRENT LIABILITIES  
Trade and other payables  17(b) (31,920)
Current income tax liabilities (413)
Borrowings  18(b) (24,674)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 17(c) (193)
(57,200)
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES  
Trade and other payables  17(a) (1,500)
Borrowings  18(b) (196,404)
Derivative financial instruments 18(c) (2,195)
Deferred income tax liabilities  19 – 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 17(c) (2,843)
(202,942)
Total liabilities (260,142)
Net assets 320,280 
EQUITY 
Share capital  20 61,176 
Share premium  21 103,961 
Other reserves  21 41,021 
Retained earnings 21 114,087 
Equity attributable to the owners of the Parent 320,245 
Non-controlling interest 35 
Total equity 320,280 
Basic/diluted net assets per share attributable to the owners of 
the Parent 9 262p/262p 
The notes on pages 112 to 156 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. 
Approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29th April 2015 and signed on its behalf by 
Director 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 110
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
110 137 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
– – 2,925 33,276 36,201 747 36,948
62,529 104,094 48,677 130,358 345,658 722 346,380
Notes 
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
 premium 
 £’000 
Other 
reserves 
£’000 
Retained 
earnings 
£’000 
Total  
£’000 
Non- 
controlling 
 interest 
£’000 
Total 
 equity 
£’000 
At 1st March 2013 61,176 103,961 39,742 101,731 306,610 56 306,666
Profit for the year ended 
28th February 2014 – – – 18,236 18,236 3 18,239
Other comprehensive income: 
– Gain on valuation of cross-currency
interest rate swap 18(c) – – 73 – 73 – 73
– Exchange gain on valuation of cross-
currency interest rate swap 18(c) – – 1,725 – 1,725 – 1,725
– Currency translation differences – – (104) – (104) – (104)
– Deferred income tax charged directly
to equity 7/19 – – (415) – (415) – (415)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
ended 28th February 2014 – – 1,279 18,236 19,515 3 19,518
Share-based payments – – – (12) (12) – (12)
Final dividend relating to 2013 8 – – – (2,934) (2,934) – (2,934)
Interim dividend relating to 2014 8 – – – (2,934) (2,934) – (2,934)
Total contributions by and distributions 
to owners of the Company – – – (5,880) (5,880) – (5,880)
Transactions with non-controlling interest – – – – – (24) (24)
Balance at 28th February 2014 61,176 103,961 41,021 114,087 320,245 35 320,280
Profit for the year ended 
28th February 2015 – – – 33,276 33,276 747 34,023
Other comprehensive income: 
– Gain on valuation of cross-currency
interest rate swap 18(c) – – 7,647 – 7,647 – 7,647
– Currency translation differences – – (2,263) – (2,263) – (2,263)
– Deferred income tax charged directly
to equity 7/19 – – (2,459) – (2,459) – (2,459)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
ended 28th February 2015 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 20 1,288 – 4,725 – 6,013 – 6,013
Issue of Ordinary shares 20 65 133 6 – 204 – 204
Share-based payments 20 – – – (21) (21) – (21)
Final dividend relating to 2014 8 – – – (3,994) (3,994) – (3,994)
Interim dividend relating to 2015 8 – – – (2,995) (2,995) – (2,995)
Special dividend 2015 8 – – – (9,995) (9,995) – (9,995)
Total contributions by and distributions 
to owners of the Company 1,353 133 4,731 (17,005) (10,788) – (10,788)
Transactions with non-controlling interest – – – – – (60) (60)
Balance at 28th February 2015 
The notes on pages 112 to 156 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements.  111
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
111
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
2015 
£’000 
80,155
(12,558)
(2,376)
65,221
657
15
70,850
(449)
(50,056)
(12,177)
(17,163)
1,450
(13,512)
1,689
158
(18,538)
(6,989)
204
(101,431)
67,327
(57)
14,412
(26,534)
20,149
40,051
(251)
59,949
59,949
–
59,949
2015 
£’000 
19,380
59,949
(36,020)
(169,012)
(125,703)
Notes  
2014 
£’000 
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 
Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities 22 (32,527)
Interest paid (12,742)
Income tax paid (817)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (46,086)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
Interest received  405
Proceeds on disposal of other plant and equipment  53
Proceeds on disposal of investment properties 27,712
Purchase of other plant and equipment  (395)
Purchase of investment properties  (10,694)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and including acquisition costs –
Cash outflow to joint ventures and associates (8,377)
Cash inflow from joint ventures and associates 33,450
Investment in financial assets (3,032)
Cash inflow from financial assets 5,000
Dividends received –
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities 44,122
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
Dividends paid  (5,868)
Issue of new shares –
Repayments of borrowings (3,330)
New bank loans raised (net of transaction costs) 19,685
Equity repayment from non-controlling interest (24)
Decrease/(increase) in monies held in restricted accounts and deposits (15,736)
Net cash used in financing activities (5,273)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (7,237)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 47,683
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (395)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 40,051
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS COMPRISE: 
Cash at bank and in hand 40,051
Bank overdrafts 18(b) –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 40,051
Notes  
2014 
 £’000 
NET DEBT COMPRISES: 
Monies held in restricted accounts and deposits 27,263
Cash and cash equivalents 40,051
Financial liabilities: 
– Current borrowings 18(b) (24,674)
– Non-current borrowings 18(b) (196,404)
Net debt (153,764)
The notes on pages 112 to 156 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements.  112
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
112 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies 
(i) General information
(ii) Going concern
Judgements other than estimates 
1.1 Classification of directly owned property assets 
1.2 Classification of projects in partnership 
1.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 
a)  
The Consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended
28th February 2015 comprise the results of Development Securities
PLC and its subsidiaries and were authorised by the Board for issue
on 29th April 2015.
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK. 
The address of its registered office is Portland House, Bressenden 
Place, London SW1E 5DS. 
The Group adopts the going concern basis in preparing its
Consolidated financial statements as discussed in the Financial
Review on pages 60 to 68.
b) Basis of preparation
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC
interpretations as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 28th February
2015 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The accounting policies
which follow set out those policies which were applied consistently in
preparing the financial statements for the year ended 28th February
2015 and 28th February 2014.
The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by 
the revaluation of investment property, operating property, available-
for-sale financial assets and derivative instruments at fair value 
through profit and loss. 
c) Critical accounting judgements and estimates
When preparing the Group financial statements, management are
required to make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning
the future. These judgements and assumptions are made at the time
the financial statements are prepared and adopted based on the best
information available. Actual outcomes may be different from initial
estimates and are reflected in the financial statements as soon as
they become apparent.
The Group earns revenue from property development, trading and 
investment, and from operating serviced offices. 
Property development includes the entire development process 
from identification of an opportunity through to construction, letting 
and sale of a completed scheme. This activity is undertaken both on 
the Group’s own Balance Sheet and in partnership with institutional 
investors, usually via a pre-sale of the completed development. 
Property trading refers to participation in the development process, 
where the Group acquires an interest in land and enhances the 
potential development, for instance by procuring or changing 
planning permission, before selling on to a third party to complete 
the development. 
Property investment represents the acquisition of income-generating 
real estate which is held for the purposes of income and capital gain, 
through active asset management. 
In most cases the property interest is held directly by the Group and is 
classified either as investment property (refer note 10) or as inventory 
for development and trading properties (refer note 15). 
The varied nature of the Group’s properties is such that a number 
exhibit characteristics consistent with more than one classification; 
also, the Directors’ strategy for an asset may change during its 
ownership. The Directors determine the status of each asset 
according to their intention on acquisition. A change in classification 
is made only in exceptional circumstances, where the strategy has 
demonstrably changed for a period of over one year. One asset has 
been reclassified from trading to development assets during the year 
following the commencement of the development works. 
In addition to its directly owned and managed activities, the Group 
participates in similar activities in partnership with others, typically to 
access expertise in different locations or market sectors. The Group’s 
financial participation may be by way of equity investment or loan. In 
each case a judgement is required as to the status of the Group’s 
interest, as an associate, a joint venture, joint operation or a financial 
asset, typically focussing on the extent of control exercised by 
the Group. 
The Group’s share of control is governed and achieved by a mixture 
of rights set out in agreements and participation in the management 
of each business. The exercise of control in practice does not always 
follow the legal structure. The Directors have considered the position 
in respect of each venture, taking account of the operation in practice, 
and have determined the status of each accordingly. 
These investments are reported under the relevant balance sheet 
headings, with a summary in note 28. 
The Group sometimes acquires properties through the purchase of 
entities which own real estate. At the time of acquisition, the Group 
considers whether the transaction represents the acquisition of a 
business. In cases where the entity is capable of being operated as 
a business, or an integrated set of activities is acquired in addition to 
the property, the Group accounts for the acquisition, as a business 
combination. When the acquisition does not represent a business, it is 
accounted for as the purchase of a group of assets and liabilities. In 
making this distinction, the Group considers the number of items of 
land and buildings owned by the entity, the extent of ancillary services 
provided by the entity, and whether the entity has its own staff to 
manage the property (over and above the maintenance and security 
of the premises). 
On 19th May 2014, the Group acquired Cathedral Group (Holdings) 
Limited and certain other group entities (Cathedral Group), a property 
development group specialising in mixed-use regeneration schemes in 
the South East. This acquisition has been accounted for as a business 
combination (refer note 26).  113
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
113
1.4 Accounting for pre-sold development assets 
Estimates 
1.5 Valuation of property assets 
1.6 Impairment reviews 
1.7 Derivative financial instruments 
Where development is undertaken on the Group’s Balance Sheet 
under a contract for a pre-sale, a judgement is required as to whether 
this represents a sale of property or a contract for construction as 
described in note 1(h)(vi). As at 28th February 2015, the Group does 
not have any construction contracts (under IAS 11). Amounts relating 
to 28th February 2014 are set out in note 3. 
The key source of estimation uncertainty rests in the values of 
property assets, which affects several categories of asset in the 
Balance Sheet. 
The investment property portfolio (and the operating property) are 
stated at fair value, which requires a number of judgements and 
estimates in assessing the qualities of the Group’s assets relative to 
market transactions. Details of the judgements and assumptions made 
are set out in notes 1(i), 1(j), 10 and 11.  
The same uncertainties affect the determination of fair value of certain 
available-for-sale financial instruments, described in note 18, with the 
further complexity that the value of these assets requires estimates of 
future construction costs, tenant demand and market yields. 
The Group’s development and trading properties are carried at 
the lower of cost and net realisable value. The determination of 
net realisable value relies upon similar estimates, with the added 
challenge, in some cases, of judgements about uncertain planning 
outcomes. These amounts are disclosed in note 15. 
The Group’s Curzon Park Limited joint venture owns a development 
site in Birmingham known as Curzon Street. The current proposal for 
the High Speed Train Link between London and Birmingham (HS2) 
indicates that the planned route of HS2 passes through the site, 
including provision for part of the prospective station. In view of this, 
the ultimate value of the site is uncertain. The early indications are that 
the impact of HS2 may restrict future development on the 10.5-acre 
site by approximately two thirds of its original potential. The Group has 
(jointly) guaranteed the liabilities of the joint venture to the bank, and 
hence should the value of the site (together with any compensation 
received) be insufficient to repay the amortising bank loan, the Group 
may incur further charges in respect of its obligations to the joint 
venture and the bank. The loan is expected to be repaid in full in May 
2015. The Directors believe that the site will recover at least its 
carrying value in the books of the joint venture, although the interim 
and ultimate uses of the site and timing of its development remain 
unclear. The site is discussed in notes 18(a) and 24. 
In view of operating losses at Executive Communication Centres 
(ECC), the Group’s serviced office subsidiary, the Group has 
conducted an impairment review of its investment in the business. 
The review required significant judgements and estimates concerning 
future customer demand and competitor behaviour, as well as discount 
rates. The review determined that no further impairment arose during 
the year. 
The Group is party to a number of interest rate swap and foreign 
currency agreements which are accounted for as derivatives and 
measured at fair value. The estimation of this figure is based upon 
market assumptions about future movements in interest and exchange 
rates. The estimated fair values and the movements in the year are set 
out in note 18(c). 
d) New accounting standards
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first
time for the financial year beginning on 1st March 2014.
— IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, builds on the existing 
principles by identifying the concept of control to determine whether 
an entity should be included within the Consolidated financial 
statements of the Group. IFRS 10 provides guidance to assist 
management in the determination of control where it is difficult to 
assess. Adoption of IFRS 10 has not had any impact on these 
financial statements.  
— IFRS 11, ‘Joint Arrangements’, focusses on the rights and 
obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than the legal 
form. There are two types of joint arrangement: joint ventures and 
joint operations. Joint operations arise where the investors have 
rights to the assets and obligations of the joint arrangements and 
therefore the operator will account for its share of the assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses. Joint ventures arise when the 
investors have rights to the net assets of the arrangement and are 
accounted for under the equity method. Adoption of IFRS 11 has 
not had any impact on these financial statements.  
— IFRS 12, ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’, includes the 
disclosure requirements for an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, joint 
arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off 
Balance Sheet vehicles.  
A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are 
effective for annual periods beginning after 1st March 2014 and 
have not been applied in preparing these Consolidated financial 
statements. None of these are expected to have a significant 
impact on Group’s operations. 
— IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’, addresses the classification, 
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities and replaces parts of IAS 39. IFRS 9 requires financial 
assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those 
measured at fair value and those measured at amortised cost. 
The determination is made at initial recognition and will depend on 
characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the main 
change from IAS 39 is where the fair value option is taken for 
financial liabilities, the part of the fair value change due to an entity’s 
own credit risk is recorded in Other Comprehensive Income rather 
than the Income Statement, unless it creates an accounting 
mismatch. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 9. 
— IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, deals with 
revenue recognition and sets out principles for reporting the nature, 
amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising 
from contracts with customers. The standard replaces IAS 18, 
‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’. The standard is 
effective for the accounting period commencing 1st March 2017, 
subject to EU adoption. 
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to have a material impact on 
the Group.  114
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
114 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued 
Summary of significant accounting policies 
(i) Goodwill
e) Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated financial statements of the Group include the
financial statements of Development Securities PLC (‘the Company’),
its subsidiaries and share of results of joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over 
which the Group has control. The Group has control when it has rights 
to variable returns from its involvement in the entity and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The Group is 
deemed to have control where it does not have more than 50 per cent 
of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating 
policies by virtue of de-facto control, taking account of how the entity 
operates in practice. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included 
from the effective date of acquisition, being the date on which the 
Group obtains control. They are deconsolidated on the date that 
control ceases. 
Where property is acquired, via corporate acquisition or otherwise, 
management considers the substance of the assets and activities of 
the acquired entity in determining whether the acquisition represents 
the acquisition of a business. The basis of the judgement is set out in 
note 1(c), 1.3. 
Where such acquisitions are not judged to be an acquisition of a 
business, they are not treated as business combinations. Rather, 
the cost to acquire the corporate entity is allocated between the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity based on their relative 
fair values at the acquisition date. Accordingly, no goodwill or 
additional deferred taxation arises. Otherwise, acquisitions are 
accounted for as business combinations. 
Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition 
method. Any excess of the purchase price of the business combination 
over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and 
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date 
carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree 
is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses 
arising from re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss. 
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is 
the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and 
the equity interests issued by the Group. This fair value includes any 
contingent consideration at the acquisition date. Any subsequent 
changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is 
deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance 
with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other 
comprehensive income.  
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest on an acquisition-
by-acquisition basis either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the identifiable net assets acquired. 
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated 
financial statements. Where necessary, adjustments have been made 
to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures to bring the accounting policies used and accounting periods 
into line with those of the Group. 
f) Associates and joint ventures
An associated company is defined as an undertaking other than
a subsidiary or joint venture over which the Group has significant
influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding
of between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in
associates are accounted using the equity method of accounting.
The Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified
on acquisition.
The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements. Under IFRS 11, 
investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint 
operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and 
obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed all of its joint 
arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures, accounted 
for using the equity method.  
Under the equity method, the interest in associates or joint ventures 
is carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost adjusted 
thereafter for the Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses 
and movements in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s 
share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the 
Group’s interest, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does 
not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.  
g) Intangible assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the
fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the
acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions
of subsidiaries is included in Intangible assets. Goodwill is tested
annually, or more frequently if circumstances change, for impairment
and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any
impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not
subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) for the purpose 
of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs that are 
expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose, identified according to operating segment.  115
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
115
(ii) Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not
subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets
that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the
amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value
less costs to sell and value-in-use. For the purposes of assessing
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are
separately identifiable cash flows (CGUs). Prior impairment of non-
financial assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for possible reversal
at each reporting date.
h) Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or
receivable. The Group recognises revenue when the amount of the
revenue can be reliably measured; when it is probable that future
economic benefits will flow to the entity; and when the specific criteria
have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below.
(i) Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term
of the lease. Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements
are spread evenly over the lease term, even if payments are not
made on such a basis. The lease term is the non-cancellable
period of the lease together with any further term for which the
tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at inception of
the lease, the Directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will
exercise that option. Lease incentives are usually in the form of
rent-free periods or capital contributions. Assets held within both
the investment and development and trading segments earn
rental income.
(ii) Lease surrender payments from tenants are recognised in
income when they are contractually agreed.
(iii) Sales of property classified as Inventory are recognised when the
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the
purchaser, which is normally on unconditional exchange of
contracts. For conditional exchanges, sales are recognised only
when all of the significant conditions are satisfied.
(iv) Licence fee income from serviced offices is recognised on a
straight-line basis over the term of the licence. Other income from
serviced offices is recognised when the service is provided. The
income is classified within the operating segment.
(v) Project management fee income is recognised on a straight-line
basis over the contract term for which project management
services are provided.
(vi) Development revenue and profits are recognised in accordance
with IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’ or IAS 18, ‘Revenue’
depending on whether all development risks, apart from the
construction risk, have passed to the purchaser under the terms
of the development agreement. Where only the construction risk
remains, the revenue and profit on the development is recognised
under IAS 11 so as to match the proportion of development work
completed on a percentage completion basis as determined by
consultant monitoring surveyors or using a suitable method
particular to the contract concerned. Profits are only recognised
where the outcome can be determined with reasonable certainty.
Full provision is made for losses as soon as such losses are
foreseen. Where revenue and profit is recognised under IAS 18,
disposals are recognised where the risks and rewards of
ownership are considered to have been transferred to the
purchaser. Profits are recognised within the development and
trading segment.
(vii) Income from investment in property secured loans relates to
gains from recovery of the loan in excess of its acquisition
amount where, under the terms of the loan agreement, the Group
has the power to instruct the sale of the underlying property
assets, retaining the disposal proceeds to repay the loan. The
income is recognised as Other property income by reference to
the loan principal outstanding using the effective interest method.
(viii) Finance income is recognised by reference to the principal
outstanding using the effective interest method and is included in
Finance income in the income statement.
(ix) Dividend income from investments is recognised when the
Group’s right to receive income has been established.
i) Investment properties
(i) Investment properties are those properties, including land
holdings, that are held for long-term rental yields or for capital
appreciation or both. Investment properties may be freehold or
leasehold properties and must not be occupied by members of
the Group. For leasehold properties that are classified as
investment properties, the associated leasehold obligations are
accounted for as finance lease obligations if they qualify to be
treated as such.
(ii) Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including
directly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter are stated at
fair value. Surpluses and deficits arising from changes in the fair
value of investment properties are recognised in the income
statement in the year in which they arise. 116
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
116   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued 
i) Investment properties continued 
(i) Operating properties – serviced offices 
(ii) Other plant and equipment 
 
(iii) Completed investment properties are valued, at each reporting 
date, by professional valuers who hold recognised and relevant 
professional qualifications and have recent experience in the 
location and category of the investment property being valued. 
In determining the fair value, the capitalisation of net income 
method and the discounting of future cash flows to their present 
value have been used, which are based upon assumptions 
including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs 
and appropriate discount rate, and make reference to market 
evidence of transaction prices for similar properties. A deduction 
is made to reflect purchaser’s acquisition costs. 
(iv) Investment properties under construction are valued by the 
Directors on the basis of the expected value of the property when 
complete, less deductions for the costs required to complete the 
project and appropriate adjustments for risk and finance costs. In 
preparing these valuations, the Directors consult with agents and 
other advisors to derive appropriate assumptions specific to 
each asset. 
(v) Gains or losses on disposal of investment properties are 
calculated by reference to carrying value and recognised when 
the risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have 
passed to the purchaser, which is normally on unconditional 
exchange of contracts. For conditional exchanges, sales are 
recognised only when all of the significant conditions are 
satisfied. Gains and losses are recognised within Gains or losses 
on disposal of investment properties in the income statement. 
(vi) Investment properties held for sale are held at fair value and 
classified separately within current assets in the Balance Sheet. 
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell. 
j) Property, plant and equipment 
Operating properties are held for business purposes rather than for 
investment, generating revenue by way of licence fees and ancillary 
services. These properties are recognised initially at cost, which 
includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs 
attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use. Thereafter, the asset is carried at valuation less 
depreciation and impairment charged subsequent to the date of 
revaluation. A revaluation surplus is credited to Other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in equity under the heading of Property 
revaluation reserve, unless it reverses a revaluation decrease on the 
same asset previously recognised as an expense, where it is first 
credited to the income statement to that extent. 
Operating properties are valued at each reporting date by 
independent, professional valuers on the basis of Existing Use Value. 
Surpluses and deficits in the period are included in the Property 
revaluation reserve within equity, except where carrying value is below 
depreciated cost, in which case surpluses and deficits are included in 
the income statement. Depreciation is provided so as to write off the 
value of the properties, excluding land, over their expected useful lives, 
usually 25 years. 
Other plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets. 
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost less estimated 
residual value of the assets over their expected useful lives on a 
straight-line method. The principal annual rates used for this purpose 
are as follows: 
Fixtures and fittings and computer equipment – 10% to 33% 
Motor vehicles – 20% 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and 
adjusted if appropriate at the end of each reporting period. An 
asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount. 
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within Other 
gains and losses in the income statement. 
k)  Leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rents payable under operating leases, net of any incentives received 
from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease. 
l) Inventory – development and trading properties 
Property and development interests acquired or being constructed for 
sale in the ordinary course of business, rather than to be held for rental 
or capital appreciation, are held as inventory and are measured at the 
lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. 
Cost includes directly attributable expenditure and interest. No 
element of overhead is included in cost, since it is not practical to 
identify overhead amounts in respect of particular assets. Where the 
Directors consider that the costs are not recoverable from the sale or 
development of the asset, the project or site is written down to its net 
realisable value, with the write-down taken to the of income statement. 
Net realisable value is calculated as the estimated selling price of the 
project or site, based upon the current plans, less all further costs to 
be incurred in making the sale. 
m) Current and deferred income tax 
The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. 
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in Other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in Other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax 
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, 
together with any adjustment in respect of previous years, in the 
jurisdiction where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and 
generate taxable income. Appropriate provisions are made based 
on the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income tax is recognised using the liability method on all 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes 
at the reporting date, with the following exceptions: 
— Where the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. 
— In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the  117
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
117 
(i)  Financial assets 
(ii) Financial liabilities 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled 
by the parent, venture partner or investor respectively, and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised. 
n) Financial assets and financial liabilities 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
terms of the instrument. 
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial 
recognition. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
financial assets were acquired as follows: 
— Loans and other receivables with fixed or determinable payments 
that are not quoted on an active market. The Group’s loans and 
receivables are included within Trade and other receivables, 
Cash and cash equivalents, Monies held in restricted accounts 
and deposits and Other financial assets in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. 
— Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. This represents 
interest and currency swaps which are categorised as held for 
trading unless they are designated as hedges. 
— Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are 
designated as such or are not classified in any other category. After 
initial recognition at cost, available-for-sale assets are measured at 
fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate 
component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until 
the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in 
the income statement. Equity instrument financial assets are held 
at cost in the event that the fair value of the instruments is not 
reliably measurable. 
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their 
original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time value 
of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. 
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will 
not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when 
the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote. Subsequent 
recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the 
appropriate cost line in the income statement. 
Loans and receivables include bank loans acquired which are secured 
against underlying investment or development assets. The loans 
acquired are recognised and carried at the lower of cost or 
recoverable amount. Amounts receivable are reviewed for impairment 
and a provision is made where there is evidence that the Group will not 
be able to recover the loan in full. Any gains or losses are recognised 
in a separate component within the income statement. 
Amounts due from customers for contract work are included in Trade 
and other receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of 
payments on account received. 
Monies held in restricted accounts and deposits represent cash 
held by the Group in accounts with conditions that restrict the use of 
these monies by the Group and, as such, does not meet the definition 
of Cash and cash equivalents as defined in IAS 7, ‘Statement of 
Cash Flows’. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise deposits held at call with banks 
and other short-term highly liquid investments with no significant risk 
of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand 
and which form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are 
included as a financial liability. For the purposes of the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are stated net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts. 
Financial assets are included within current assets except for assets 
maturing after one year, which will be classified as non-current. 
Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each reporting date. 
Assets are impaired where there is evidence that as a result of events 
that occurred after initial recognition, the estimated future cash flows 
from the assets have been adversely affected. The carrying amount of 
the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 
income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the 
impairment decreases, the reversal of the previously recognised 
impairment is recognised in the income statement. 
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and 
losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation 
of liabilities are recognised respectively in Finance income and 
Finance costs. 
Other financial liabilities, including trade and other payables, are 
initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost 
and are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one 
year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Amounts due to customers for contract work is included within Trade 
and other payables and represents payments received in advance 
from customers.  118
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
118 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued 
(iii) Derivatives
(iv) Hedging
(i) Pensions
(ii) Profit-sharing and bonus plans
n) Financial assets and financial liabilities continued
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, including
interest rate swaps, caps and collars and cross-currency swaps, to
manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair 
value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in 
profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated as an 
effective hedging instrument, in which case the fair value is taken 
through Other comprehensive income. 
The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current
asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge
relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset or a
current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is
less than twelve months.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group documents the 
relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along 
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking 
various hedge transactions, the nature of the risk being hedged 
and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. 
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, 
the Group documents whether the hedging instruments that are 
used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes 
in fair value or cash flows of hedged items. The gain or loss of the 
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument 
is recognised in Other comprehensive income. The gain or loss 
relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Amounts taken to equity are recycled to the income 
statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit 
or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the 
hedging relationship or the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
The Group does not have any hedging instruments as at 
28th February 2015. 
o) Borrowing costs
Gross borrowing costs relating to direct expenditure on investment
properties and inventories under development are capitalised. The
interest capitalised is calculated using the rate of interest on the loan
to fund the expenditure, or the Group’s weighted average cost of
borrowings where appropriate, over the period from commencement of
the development work until substantially all the activities necessary to
prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are complete.
The capitalisation of finance costs is suspended if there are prolonged
periods when development activity is interrupted.
Capitalised interest is written off to direct costs on disposal of 
inventory or to operating profit on disposal of investment properties. 
Other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period 
in which they are incurred. 
Fees paid on establishment of loan facilities are capitalised as a 
prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the 
facility to which it relates. All other borrowing costs are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 
p) Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Onerous lease provisions are created for properties that are 
unoccupied, sublet at below the rent payable on the head lease 
or for operating sites where the projected future trading revenue 
is insufficient to cover the value in use. 
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure 
expected to be required to settle the obligation. The amortisation 
in the discount is recognised as an interest expense. 
q) Employee benefits
The Group operates a defined contribution scheme whereby the
Group pays fixed contributions into a pension fund. The Group has
no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the
fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees relating to
employee service in the current or prior periods. The charge to the
income statement in the year represents the actual amount payable
to the scheme in the year. Differences between contributions payable
in the year and contributions paid are shown as either accruals or
prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
The Group recognises a liability and expense for bonus and
profit-sharing in accordance with the bonus plans outlined in the
Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97. The Group recognises
a liability when contractually obliged.
r) Foreign currencies
The Consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented
in UK Sterling, the Company’s functional and presentation currency.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into
Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the
transactions or valuation when items are re-measured. 119
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
119 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at 
the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date. 
Exchange movements are dealt with in the income statement, with 
exchange differences on borrowings taken to Finance income or 
Finance costs, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
s) Segmental reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision-Maker 
(CODM). The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and 
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified 
as the Board. 
t) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new Ordinary 
shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from 
the proceeds. 
Where a Group company purchases its own share capital out of 
distributable reserves, the shares can be held as Treasury shares. 
The shares are carried at the consideration paid including any directly 
attributable costs of acquiring the shares. The value of the shares 
is deducted from the equity attributable to the Company’s equity 
holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued. If the shares are 
subsequently reissued, their value is reattributed to the Company’s 
equity holders. 
u) Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans, 
the majority of which are cash-settled, under which the entity receives 
services from employees as consideration for cash-settled instruments 
of the Group. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the 
grant of the option is recognised as an expense. The total amount to 
be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the 
options granted. 
The Group has used a Black-Scholes option valuation model 
to determine the fair value of share options granted. An equal 
probability model has been used to determine the fair value of 
share awards under the Performance Share Plan. The cost of cash-
settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by 
reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and 
is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on 
the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to 
the award. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market 
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether 
or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense 
is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or 
otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of cash-settled 
share-based instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an 
instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as 
described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the 
previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, 
with a corresponding entry in accruals. 
v) Dividend distribution 
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised 
as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
w) Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements 
where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the 
financial performance of the Group. They are material items of income 
or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of 
their nature or amount.  
x) Definitions 
Operating profit: stated after gain on disposal of investment properties 
and the revaluation of the Investment property portfolio and before the 
results of associates, jointly controlled entities and finance income 
and costs. 
IPD Index and Total Portfolio Return: total return from the completed 
investment property portfolio, comprising net rental income or 
expenditure, capital gains or losses from disposals and revaluation 
surpluses or deficits, divided by the average capital employed during 
the financial year, as defined and measured by Investment Property 
Databank Limited, a company that produces independent benchmarks 
of property returns. 
Total Shareholder Return: movement in share price over the year plus 
dividends paid as a percentage of the opening share price. 
Gearing: expressed as a percentage, is measured as net debt divided 
by total shareholders’ funds. 
Adjusted gearing: expressed as a percentage, is calculated by 
deducting from net debt the current fair value of the subordinated 
loan notes and adding back relevant restricted cash balances and 
transaction costs. 
Loan to value gearing: expressed as a percentage of net debt as a 
proportion of total property assets, including shares of properties and 
net debt in all projects in partnership. 
Net debt: total debt less cash and short-term deposits, including cash 
held in restricted accounts. 
   120
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
120   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
2 Segmental analysis 
2015 
Investment 
 £’000 
Development  
and trading 
 £’000  
Operating 
 £’000 
Total 
£’000 
12,891 186,523 4,326 203,740
(2,721) (142,762) (5,286) (150,769)
10,170 43,761 (960) 52,971
(7,770) (10,098) – (17,868)
3,843 – – 3,843
7,619 – 205 7,824
13,862 33,663 (755) 46,770
46 129 – 175
 
 (2,724)
3,225 (350) – 2,875
– 521 – 521
– (86) – (86)
 (20)
 47,511
3,043 4,871 – 7,914
(7,105) (5,646) – (12,751)
 
 (7,917)
 34,757
 (734)
 34,023
 
 
230,513 351,103 4,384 586,000
 57,838
 643,838
 
(125,106) (144,535) (3,298) (272,939)
 (24,519)
 (297,458)
 
The segmental information presented consistently follows the information provided to the Chief Operating Decision-Maker (CODM) and reflects 
the three sectors in which the Group operates. The CODM, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the 
operating segments, has been identified as the Board. The three operating divisions are: 
— Investment – management of the Group’s investment property portfolio, generating rental income and valuation surpluses from property 
management; 
— Development and trading – managing the Group’s development and trading projects. Revenue is received from project management fees, 
development profits and the disposal of inventory; and 
— Operating – serviced office operations. Revenue is principally received from short-term licence fee income. 
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise amounts that cannot be specifically allocated to operating segments; an analysis is provided below. 
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segmental information. All operations occur and all assets are located in 
the United Kingdom, except assets of £44,049,000 (2014: £3,238,000) which are located in the Republic of Ireland. All revenue arises from 
continuing operations. 
    
 
Segment revenue  
Direct costs 
Segment result  
Operating costs  
Gain on disposal of investment properties 
Gain on revaluation of property portfolio  
Operating profit/(loss) 
Other income 
Exceptional item 
– unallocated acquisition costs associated with business combination 
Share of post-tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associates 
Profit on sale of joint venture 
Loss on sale of investment 
Unallocated loss on sale of other plant and equipment 
Profit before interest and income tax 
Finance income  
Finance costs  
Exceptional item 
– unallocated termination of cross currency interest rate swap 
Profit before income tax  
Income tax  
Profit for the year 
 
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES  
Segment assets  
Unallocated assets  
Total assets  
 
Segment liabilities  
Unallocated liabilities  
Total liabilities  
A summary of unallocated assets and liabilities is shown on page 122.   121
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
121 
2015 
Investment 
 £’000 
Development 
 and trading 
 £’000  
Operating 
 £’000 
Total 
£’000 
49,317 269 103 49,689
78
– (1,194) – (1,194)
– (179) (443) (622)
(253)
12,721 4,827 – 17,548
– – 4,326 4,326
– 1,194 – 1,194
– 87,484 – 87,484
– 2,953 – 2,953
– 90,065 – 90,065
170 – – 170
12,891 186,523 4,326 203,740
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION 
Capital expenditure 
Unallocated capital expenditure 
Impairment of assets 
Depreciation 
Unallocated depreciation 
REVENUE  
Rental income  
Serviced office income  
Project management fees  
Trading property sales 
Other trading property income 
Development proceeds 
Other  
In the year ended 28th February 2015, three projects with turnover totalling £77,804,000 generated in excess of 10.0 per cent of total revenue 
and fell within the development and trading segment. 
2014 
Investment 
 £’000 
Development  
and trading  
£’000  
Operating 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Segment revenue 15,054 60,147 4,142 79,343
Direct costs (2,649) (43,723) (5,172) (51,544)
Segment result  12,405 16,424 (1,030) 27,799
Operating costs  (4,886) (9,143) – (14,029)
Gain on disposal of investment properties 539 – – 539
Gain on revaluation of property portfolio  3,104 – 5 3,109
Operating profit/(loss) 11,162 7,281 (1,025) 17,418
Other income 286 185 – 471
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 5,308 7,526 – 12,834
Loss on sale of investment – (250) – (250)
Unallocated profit on sale of other plant and equipment 34
Profit before interest and income tax 30,507
Finance income  1,205 1,347 – 2,552
Finance costs  (7,698) (5,834) – (13,532)
Profit before income tax 19,527
Income tax  (1,288)
Profit for the year 18,239
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
Segment assets  252,766 291,995 4,667 549,428
Unallocated assets  30,994
Total assets 580,422
Segment liabilities  (168,447) (81,454) (3,667) (253,568)
Unallocated liabilities (6,574)
Total liabilities (260,142) 122
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
122   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
2 Segmental analysis continued 
2015 
£’000 
206
1,588
10,507
45,537
57,838
(17)
(11,044)
(3,442)
(21)
(9,995)
(24,519)
 
 
 
    2014 
 
Investment 
£’000 
Development  
and trading  
£’000  
Operating 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION  
Capital expenditure 11,674 81 297 12,052
Unallocated capital expenditure  17
Impairment of assets – (232) – (232)
Depreciation – (123) (418) (541)
Unallocated depreciation  (227)
  
REVENUE   
Rental income  14,985 3,664 – 18,649
Serviced office income  – – 4,142 4,142
Project management fees  – 566 – 566
Trading property sales – 20,608 – 20,608
Other trading property income – 2,846 – 2,846
Construction contract revenue – 8,040 – 8,040
Development proceeds – 24,423 – 24,423
Other  69 – – 69
 15,054 60,147 4,142 79,343
In the year ended 28th February 2014, two projects with turnover totalling £20,688,000 generated in excess of 10.0 per cent of total revenue 
and fell within the development and trading segment. 
 
2014 
£’000 
UNALLOCATED ASSETS CAN BE ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: 
Other plant and equipment 411
Deferred income tax asset 362
Trade and other receivables 7,912
Cash and cash equivalents 22,309
 30,994
 
UNALLOCATED LIABILITIES CAN BE ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: 
Current borrowings (17)
Trade and other payables (4,362)
Deferred income tax liability –
Derivative financial instruments (2,195)
Special dividend 2015 –
 (6,574)
  123
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
123 
3 Construction contract revenue 
2015 
£’000 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
4 Operating profit 
2015 
 £’000 
(89)
79,619
238
1,194
65
810
433
217
373
43
228
142
1,003
–
–
–
  
 
There were no construction contracts as at 28th February 2015. As at 28th February 2014 revenue related to construction contracts 
amounted to £8,040,000 and was included within development and trading segment revenue (refer note 2) and represented 10.1 per cent 
of Group revenues.  
The amount shown in Trade and other receivables in the Balance Sheet represents the final amount due from the purchaser under the 
construction contract.  
 
2014 
 £’000 
Construction contract assets 605
Construction contract liabilities –
Construction contract net assets 605
This amount corresponds to: 
Aggregate costs incurred 7,452
Recognised profits 588
 8,040
Progress billings (7,435)
Construction contract net assets 605
 
2014 
£’000 
OPERATING PROFIT IS STATED AFTER CHARGING/(CREDITING):  
Share-based payments credit (144)
Cost of sales of development and trading properties recognised in direct costs  11,855
Goodwill realised on disposal of development asset –
Write-down of development and trading properties to net realisable value  232
Depreciation: – Operating property 65
 – Other plant and equipment 703
Impairment of trade receivables recognised in direct costs 183
 
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of Company and Group financial 
statements  181
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 305
– Half year review procedures 43
– Tax services 247
– All other services –
 776
Fees in respect of the Development Securities PLC pension scheme: 
– Audit 2
– All other services –
 2
  124
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
124   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
5 Employees 
2015 
£’000 
9,888
1,253
(89)
874
11,926
2015 
Number 
77
35
112
6 Finance income and costs 
2015 
 £’000 
2,771
66
429
4,648
7,914
2015 
£’000 
(10,779)
(2,200)
(1,413)
(94)
–
(14,486)
1,735
(12,751)
(4,837)
 
 
Employee benefit expense 
2014 
 £’000 
Wages and salaries  7,105
Social security costs 888
Cost of employee share option schemes  (144)
Other pension costs – defined contribution plans 616
 8,465
  
Average monthly number of employees, including Directors, employed 
2014 
Number 
Property development and investment  50
Operating property activities  29
 79
The Directors are considered to be the only key management personnel. Their remuneration is shown in the Remuneration Report  
on pages 80 to 97. 
 
a) Finance income 
2014 
£’000 
Interest receivable on loans and deposits 1,377
Other finance income 222
Fair value gains on financial instruments – interest rate swaps, caps and collars 953
Net foreign currency differences arising on retranslation of cash and cash equivalents –
Total finance income 2,552
 
b)  Finance costs 
2014 
£’000 
Interest on bank loans and other borrowings  (10,370)
Interest on debenture  (2,200)
Amortisation of transaction costs  (606)
Provision: unwinding of discount (116)
Net foreign currency differences arising on retranslation of cash and cash equivalents  (291)
 (13,583)
Capitalised interest on development and trading properties 51
Total finance costs (13,532)
 
Net finance costs (10,980)
Interest was capitalised at an average rate of 5.36 per cent. Capitalised interest of £1,359,000 (2014: £63,000) was written off in the year. 
The tax treatment of capitalised interest follows the accounting treatment. 
  125
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
125 
7 Taxation 
2015 
£’000 
4,562
(453)
4,109
(3,375)
734
2015 
£’000 
2,459
2,459
2015 
£’000 
34,757
7,358
195
(939)
(2,281)
–
(3,163)
40
10
(424)
(62)
734
8 Dividends 
2015 
£’000 
3,994
2,995
9,995
16,984
4,373
2014 
£’000 
Current tax 1,127
Adjustment in respect of prior years (76)
Total current tax charge 1,051
Deferred tax (credit)/charge 237
Income tax charge 1,288
2014 
£’000 
Tax on items credited to equity:  
Deferred tax charge on other revaluations 415
Total charge in the income statement 415
Tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits 
of the consolidated entities as follows: 
2014 
£’000 
Profit before tax 19,527
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at 21.2% (28th February 2014: 23.1%) 4,508
Tax effects of: 
Amounts not deductible for tax purposes  2,185
Differences between accounting and tax profit on disposal –
Non-taxable capital gains (1,941)
Notional gains recognised on property transactions in the year (1,057)
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (1,570)
Impact on change in UK tax rate 93
Income tax at lower rates 22
Recognition of tax losses –
Brought forward losses utilised (952)
Total tax charge 1,288
The UK corporation tax rate decreased on 1st April 2014 from 23.0 per cent to 21.0 per cent. Deferred income tax is calculated on the 
temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20.0 per cent (2014: 20.0 per cent). 
2014 
 £’000 
DECLARED AND PAID DURING THE YEAR 
Equity dividends on Ordinary shares:  
Final dividend for 2014: 3.20 pence per share (2013: 2.40 pence per share) 2,934
Interim dividend for 2015: 2.40 pence per share (2014: 2.40 pence per share) 2,934
Special dividend for 2015*: 8.00 pence per share (2014: nil pence per share) –
5,868
PROPOSED FOR APPROVAL BY SHAREHOLDERS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
Final dividend for 2015: 3.50 pence per share (2014: 3.20 pence per share)  3,911
* On 24th February 2015, the Board approved the payment of a special dividend of 8.00 pence per share to be paid on 7th April 2015 to
Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6th March 2015.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend was approved by the Board on 28th April 2015 and has not been included as a liability or 
deducted from retained earnings as at 28th February 2015. The final dividend is payable on 20th August 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 24th July 2015 and will be recognised in the year ending 29th February 2016.  126
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
126 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
9 Earnings per share and net assets per share 
2015 
£’000 
33,276
(11,200)
(3,843)
–
1,194
7,548
2,724
29,699
2015 
’000 
124,271
51
124,322
26.8p
26.8p
23.9p
23.9p
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding shares purchased by the Parent and held as treasury shares. 
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Parent by the weighted average number of 
Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all 
the dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares. 
Basic net assets per share amounts are calculated by dividing net assets by the number of Ordinary shares in issue at the balance sheet date 
excluding shares purchased by the Parent and held as treasury shares. 
Diluted net assets per share amounts are calculated by dividing net assets by the number of Ordinary shares in issue at the balance sheet date 
plus the number of Ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares. 
Management has chosen to disclose the European Public Real Estate (EPRA) adjusted net assets per share and earnings per share from 
continuing activities in order to provide an indication of the Group’s underlying business performance and to assist comparison between 
European property companies. 
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment property revaluations (including valuations of joint venture investment properties), 
impairment of development and trading properties and mark-to-market movements of derivative financial instruments (including those of joint 
ventures) and intangible asset movements and their related taxation. 
EPRA net assets (EPRA NAV) are the Balance Sheet net assets excluding mark-to-market adjustment on effective cash flow hedges and 
related debt adjustments and deferred taxation on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under employee 
share schemes. 
EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided by the number of Ordinary shares in issue at the balance sheet date. 
EPRA triple net assets is EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations. 
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share and EPRA profit per share is based on the following data: 
2014 
£’000 
PROFIT 
Profit for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 18,236
Revaluation surplus (including share of joint venture revaluation surplus) (4,824)
Gain on disposal of investment properties (539)
Gain on disposal of trading properties (see below) (2,502)
Impairment of development and trading properties 232
Mark-to-market adjustment on interest rate swaps (including share of joint venture mark-to-market adjustment) (1,059)
Acquisition costs in relation to business combination –
EPRA adjusted profit from continuing activities attributable to owners of the Company 9,544
2014 
’000 
NUMBER OF SHARES  
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of earnings per share 122,229
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary shares:  
Share options  42
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 122,271
Basic earnings per share (pence) 14.9p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 14.9p
EPRA adjusted earnings per share (pence) 7.8p
EPRA adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 7.8p
The Directors consider the acquisition and disposal of trading assets to be part of the core business of the Group and therefore have not 
adjusted profit for the gain on disposal when calculating EPRA adjusted earnings per share as at 28th February 2015. If the gain on disposal of 
trading assets is excluded from the calculation of EPRA earnings per share as at 28th February 2014, EPRA adjusted earnings and diluted 
EPRA adjusted earnings would both be 9.9 pence per share.  127
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
127 
2015 
Net assets 
 £’000 
No. of shares 
’000 
Net assets 
 per share 
 pence 
345,658 125,057 276
(68)
345,590 125,057 276
68
(14,714)
330,944 125,057 265
300 336 –
345,958 125,393 276
345,890 125,393 276
331,244 125,393 264
10 Investment properties 
163,147 40,189 203,336
2015 
£’000 
203,336
–
203,336
 
Net assets per share and diluted net assets per share have been calculated as follows: 
     2014 
 
Net assets 
 £’000  
No. of shares 
 ’000 
Net assets 
per share 
pence 
Basic net assets per share attributable 
to the owners 320,245 122,229 262
Cumulative mark-to-market adjustment on 
interest rate swaps 8,085
EPRA adjusted net assets per share 328,330 122,229 269
Cumulative mark-to-market adjustment on 
interest rate swaps (8,085)
Fair value of debt (4,204)
EPRA adjusted triple net assets per share 316,041 122,229 259
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary shares  486 222 –
Diluted net assets per share  320,731 122,451 262
EPRA diluted net assets per share  328,816 122,451 269
EPRA diluted triple net assets per share* 316,527 122,451 259
* In calculating EPRA triple net assets per share the Directors have not included an estimate of the fair value of the development and trading portfolio given the uncertainty of the timing and amount 
related to future sales.  
 
Freehold 
 £’000 
Long leasehold 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000 
At valuation 1st March 2013 211,847 8,227 220,074
Additions:  
– acquisitions 9,452 – 9,452
– capital expenditure 2,013 209 2,222
Disposals (32,749) – (32,749)
Surplus/(deficit) on revaluation 3,176 (72) 3,104
Transferred to investment properties held for sale (42,410) – (42,410)
At valuation 28th February 2014 151,329 8,364 159,693
Additions:  
– acquisitions 7,727 39,866 47,593
– capital expenditure 1,269 455 1,724
Disposals (5,300) (7,993) (13,293)
Surplus/(deficit) on revaluation 8,122 (503) 7,619
At valuation 28th February 2015 
Direct costs of £2,721,000 (2014: £2,649,000) arose as a result of ownership of investment properties. 
Analysis of investment properties 
2014 
£’000 
Non-current 159,693
Current – held for sale 42,410
 202,103
 
  128
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
128   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
10 Investment properties continued 
2015 
£’000 
207,877
(4,541)
203,336
–
 
Reconciliation of market value of investment properties to the net book amount 
The following table reconciles the market value of investment properties to their net book amount. The components of the reconciliation are 
included within their relevant balance sheet heading. 
 
2014 
 £’000 
Market value as assessed by the independent valuers or Directors  207,551
Amount included in prepayments and accrued income in respect of lease incentives  (5,448)
Net book amount of Investment properties – non-current assets 159,693
Net book amount of Investment properties – held for sale 42,410
At 28th February and 31st August each year, the Group engages independent professionally qualified valuers who hold a recognised 
professional qualification and who have recent experience in the locations and segments of the investment portfolio. As at 28th February 2015 
and 2014, completed Investment properties have been valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung, Chartered Surveyors, Savills Commercial Limited, 
Chartered Surveyors, GVA Grimley Limited, Commercial Property Advisers or Ryden LLP, Commercial Property Consultants at a value of 
£184,894,000 (2014: £132,969,000). Assets totalling £9,452,000 were acquired in February 2014 and were therefore carried at cost as at 
28th February 2014. The current value equates to the highest and best use of the asset. 
The valuers have consented to the use of their names in the financial statements.  
No assets are classified as held for sale as at 28th February 2015. As at 28th February 2014, £42,410,000 of assets had been contracted for 
sale and were therefore valued at their sales price less costs to sell at that date.  
Also included within Investment properties are freehold land and buildings representing investment properties under development, amounting to 
£18,442,000 (2014: £17,272,000), which have been valued by the Directors. These properties comprise buildings and landholdings for current 
or future development as investment properties. This approach has been taken because the value of these properties is dependent on a detailed 
knowledge of the planning status, the competitive position of these assets and a range of complex project development appraisals. 
Investment properties under development include £8,039,000 (2014: £7,190,000) of landholdings adjacent to retail properties within the 
Group’s portfolio, acquired for the purpose of extending the existing shopping centres. The fair value of these properties rests in the planned 
extensions, and is difficult to estimate pending confirmation of designs and planning permission, and hence has been estimated by the Directors 
at cost as an approximation to fair value. 
£190,487,000 (2014: £187,590,000) of total Investment properties are charged as security against the Group’s borrowings. 
Valuation methodology 
The key driver of our investment portfolio valuations is the terms of the leases in place at the date of valuation. At each valuation date the 
Investment Team provides the valuers with inputs for the valuation report following a review of all the tenant and lease movements from the 
previous valuation date. The team will also engage in discussions with the independent valuers about each asset. The external valuations of Level 
3 assets has been performed by reviewing lease information to determine the cash flow profile of the property in the future which will form the 
basis of the valuation. The valuation assumes adjustments from these rental streams to current market rent at the time of the next rent review, 
(leases generally allow for upward only rent reviews) and as leases expire and are replaced by new leases. The current market level of rent is 
based on evidence from recent, comparable leasing transactions and negotiations. This is based on evidence available at the date of the 
valuation and does not assume any future increases in market rent. 
The nominal equivalent yield is applied as a discount rate to the rental cash flows which, after taking into account other input assumptions such 
as voids and landlords costs, generates the market value of the property. The nominal equivalent yield applied is assessed by reference to similar 
market transactions and takes into account any risks associated with rent uplift assumptions. For multi-let property assets, different nominal 
yields will be applied to each tenant to arrive at an overall nominal yield and valuation for the asset. For example, a foodstore anchor tenant with a 
strong covenant may attract a yield of 4.8 per cent whereas a local sole trader will be valued off a yield of 9.0 per cent. Vacant units will also be 
allocated a yield based on the likelihood of re-letting the space. The average nominal yield applied to the investment portfolio was 7.4 per cent 
for the year ended 28th February 2015 (2014: 7.7 per cent). 
There were no changes to valuation techniques during the year. 
   129
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
129 
Market value  
28th February 
 2015 
 £’000 
133,479 
42,309 
9,106 
9,968 
8,474 
203,336 
 
The following table analyses the non-financial assets carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different hierarchy levels have been defined 
as follows: 
(i)  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. This may be the agreed sales price of an asset where 
exchange has occurred after the year end date (Level 1).  
(ii)  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2). 
(iii) Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs). These assets are valued by 
external valuers and Directors (Level 3). An analysis of Level 3 assets is provided below. 
It is the Group’s policy to recognise transfers into and out of hierarchy levels at the date of the change in circumstance.  
There are no Level 1 assets or transfers between Levels 1 and 3 during the year ended 28th February 2015. As at 28th February 2014, 
£42,410,000 of assets were transferred from Level 3 to Level 1. This was due to sales prices having been agreed prior to the year end and the 
sales subsequently exchanging after the year end. Independent valuations were not obtained for these assets.  
Analysis of Level 3 Investment properties 
     Sensitivity analysis – equivalent yield 
Class of property: Level 3 Valuation technique Key unobservable inputs 
Equivalent yield range  
28th February 2015 
50 basis 
point yield 
contraction 
£’000 
50 basis 
point yield 
expansion 
 £’000 
Shopping centres Income capitalisation Equivalent yields 4.75% – 33.00% 10,298 (8,717)
Retail/commercial space Income capitalisation Equivalent yields 4.87% – 8.25% 3,046 (2,430)
Office Income capitalisation Equivalent yields 7.25% – 11.25% 578 (527)
Land held for development 
Residual development 
method 
Price per acre 
/development margin 
£0.45m per acre 
/ 15.0% – 20.0% – –
Buildings held for development 
Residual development 
method 
Estimated profit 
margin 15.0% – 20.0% – –
   
Further information relating to the Group’s Investment portfolio is set out in the Portfolio Review on pages 42 to 59. 
The Group engages external, independent and qualified valuers to determine the fair value of Level 3 assets. The valuers liaise with the 
Investment Team every six months, reviewing tenant information relating to covenant strength, lease period and rental terms. Valuers will also 
review comparable transactions in the market. The fair value of Level 3 assets is also determined by reviewing local sales data or, where the 
assets are held for the purpose of extending an existing retail asset, by reviewing appraisals relating to the proposed scheme. 
  130
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
130 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
11 Operating property – serviced offices 
1,612
792
820
Long leasehold 
 £’000 
VALUATION 
At 1st March 2013 1,402
Surplus on revaluation 5
At 28th February 2014 1,407
Surplus on revaluation  205
At 28th February 2015 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 
At 1st March 2013 662
Charge for the year  65
At 28th February 2014 727
Charge for the year  65
At 28th February 2015 
Net book amount 28th February 2015 
Net book amount 28th February 2014 680
Net book amount 1st March 2013 740
Original cost of operating property at 28th February 2015 and 2014 1,583
The operating property is charged as security against the Group’s borrowings. 
Depreciation expense of £65,000 (2014: £65,000) is included within operating costs. 
The surplus on revaluation of long leasehold property for the year ended 28th February 2015 is £205,000 (2014: £5,000) and has been 
credited to the income statement. If the Operating property was measured using the cost model, the carrying value would be £791,000 
(2014: £856,000). 
The Group’s Operating property has been valued at market value as at 28th February 2015 by independent professional valuers DTZ 
Debenham Tie Leung, Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of Existing Use Value in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and without any special assumptions. The values disclosed above are as stated by the valuer in its 
valuation report to the Directors. 
The valuer has consented to the use of its name in the financial statements.  131
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
131 
12 Intangible assets 
2,059
13 Other plant and equipment 
10,450 200 10,650
8,102 146 8,248
2,348 54 2,402
 
 £’000 
GOODWILL  
At 1st March 2013 and 28th February 2014 238
Additions 2,059
Goodwill charged to profit and loss on disposal of development asset (238)
At 28th February 2015 
Goodwill of £238,000 as at 1st March 2014 related to the future profit of a development acquired in 2010. During the year the Group disposed 
of the development and as a result goodwill of £238,000 has been charged to profit and loss within the development and trading segment within 
direct costs.  
On 19th May 2014, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued shares in Cathedral Group (Holdings) Limited, Cathedral Special Projects 
(Holdings) Limited and Cathedral (ESCO) Limited and 95 percent of the shares issued in Deadhare Limited (Cathedral), a property development 
group specialising in mixed-use regeneration schemes in the South East. The goodwill of £2,059,000 represents the unrecognised asset of the 
highly skilled workforce and specialist development knowledge acquired with Cathedral (refer note 26). 
Goodwill has been tested for impairment at the reporting date.  
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to the operating segment. The recoverable amount of all 
CGUs has been determined based on value-in-use calculations. The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets 
approved by management covering a period up to the completion of each project (or less than five years). The pre-tax discount rate used 
was 11.0 per cent. No provision for impairment was considered necessary. No reasonable change in any assumption would give rise to a 
material impairment. 
 
Fixtures and 
 fittings and 
 computer 
 equipment 
 £’000  
Motor 
 vehicles 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
COST  
At 1st March 2013 9,737 313 10,050
Additions  365 30 395
Disposals  (22) (143) (165)
At 28th February 2014 10,080 200 10,280
Additions  417 33 450
Disposals  (47) (33) (80)
At 28th February 2015 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION  
At 1st March 2013 6,684 242 6,926
Charge for the year 669 34 703
Disposals (6) (140) (146)
At 28th February 2014 7,347 136 7,483
Charge for the year 779 31 810
Disposals (24) (21) (45)
At 28th February 2015 
Net book amount 28th February 2015 
Net book amount 28th February 2014 2,733 64 2,797
Net book amount 28th February 2013 3,053 71 3,124
Depreciation expense of £253,000 (2014: £227,000) is included within operating costs and £557,000 (2014: £476,000) is included within 
direct costs. 
  132
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
132   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
14 Investments 
8,253 40,544
 
 
Investments 
in associates 
£’000 
Investments 
in joint ventures 
 £’000 
At 1st March 2013 4,276 40,137
Additions – 12,038
Share of profit – 11,013
Share of revaluation surplus – 1,715
Share of mark-to-market adjustment on interest rate swaps – 106
Share of results – 12,834
Capital distributions – (33,229)
At 28th February 2014 4,276 31,780
Additions 3,977 13,186
Acquisition via business combination – 3,959
Share of loss – (443)
Share of revaluation surplus – 3,376
Share of mark-to-market adjustment on interest rate swaps – (58)
Share of results – 2,875
Disposal of joint venture – (9,823)
Capital distributions – (1,433)
At 28th February 2015 
A summary of the Group’s projects in partnership and the balance sheet classification of its interests is set out in note 28. 
a) Investment in associates 
The Group has the following interest in associates: 
 
% of 
holding  
Country of 
 incorporation Principal activity Reporting segment Acquisition date Note 
Atlantic Park (Bideford) Limited 40 United Kingdom Property development 
Development and 
trading September 2010 
Barwood Development Securities Limited 40 United Kingdom Property development 
Development and 
trading January 2012 
Barwood Land and Estates Limited 25 United Kingdom Property development 
Development and 
trading November 2009 
CDSR Burlington House Developments Limited 20 Ireland Property development 
Development and 
trading July 2014 
Northpoint Developments Limited 42 United Kingdom Property development 
Development and 
trading November 2007 i
Wessex Property Fund 47 Jersey Investment property Investment September 2007  i
i) The investment in the associate has been fully provided against. 
   133
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
133 
2015 
Atlantic Park 
 (Bideford)  
Limited  
£’000 
Barwood 
Development 
Securities 
Limited 
 £’000 
Barwood Land 
and Estates 
Limited 
 £’000 
CDSR 
 Burlington 
House 
Developments 
Limited 
£’000 
Northpoint  
Developments  
Limited  
£’000 
Wessex 
Property Fund 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000 
– 286 612 – 695 – 1,593
1,910 2,737 727 35,885 9,062 343 50,664
(719) (240) (93) (334) (2,709) (11,245) (15,340)
– – – (28,292) (22,996) – (51,288)
1,191 2,783 1,246 7,259 (15,948) (10,902) (14,371)
475 1,113 312 1,452 (6,698) (4,849) (8,195)
(199) – – – 6,698 4,849 11,348
– 1,387 1,188 2,525 – – 5,100
276 2,500 1,500 3,977 – – 8,253
– 646 169 – 4,771 – 5,586
(164) 755 99 – (2,219) (2,209) (3,738)
(65) 302 25 – (932) (983) (1,653)
65 (302) (25) – 932 983 1,653
–––––––
– 158 – – – – 158
SUMMARISED BALANCE 
SHEETS: 
Non-current assets 
Current assets  
Current liabilities 
Non-current liabilities 
Net assets/(liabilities) 
Share of net assets/(liabilities) 
Net assets/(liabilities) not 
recognised 
Goodwill 
Group’s share of net assets 
SUMMARISED INCOME 
STATEMENTS: 
Revenue 
Post-tax (losses)/profits of 
associates 
Share of (losses)/profits 
Share of losses/(profits) not 
recognised 
Share of (losses)/profits 
recognised 
Dividends received from 
associates 
Any contingent liabilities in relation to our associate investment partners are disclosed in note 24.  134
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
134   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
14 Investments continued 
 
a) Investment in associates continued 
       2014 
 
Atlantic Park 
 (Bideford) 
 Limited  
£’000 
Barwood 
Development 
Securities 
Limited 
£’000 
Barwood Land 
and Estates 
Limited 
 £’000 
CDSR 
Burlington 
House 
Developments 
Limited 
£’000 
Northpoint  
Developments  
Limited 
 £’000 
Wessex 
Property 
Fund 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
SUMMARISED BALANCE 
SHEETS:   
Non-current assets – 321 879 – 1,092 – 2,292 
Current assets  1,058 3,311 437 – 9,086 2,491 16,383 
Current liabilities (557) (794) (149) – (1,453) (11,242) (14,195) 
Non-current liabilities – – – – (21,219) – (21,219) 
Net assets/(liabilities) 501 2,838 1,167 – (12,494) (8,751) (16,739) 
Share of net 
assets/(liabilities) 200 1,136 292 – (5,247) (3,892) (7,511) 
Share of net liabilities not 
recognised – – – – 5,247 3,892 9,139 
Goodwill 76 1,364 1,208 – – – 2,648 
Group’s share of net assets 276 2,500 1,500 – – – 4,276 
       
SUMMARISED INCOME 
STATEMENTS:       
Revenue 24 1,954 1,008 – 5,243 575 8,804 
Post-tax (losses)/profits of 
associates (86) 845 196 – (58) (1,878) (981) 
Share of (losses)/profits (34) 338 49 – (24) (835) (506) 
Share of losses/(profits) not 
recognised 34 (338) (49) – 24 835 506 
Share of (losses)/profits 
recognised – – – – – – – 
Dividends received from 
associates – – – – – – – 
   135
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
135 
b) Investment in joint ventures 
As at 28th February 2015, the Group has the following interests in joint ventures: 
 
% of 
holding  
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity Reporting segment Acquisition date 
Accounting 
reference date 
Accrue Student Housing GP Limited 50 United Kingdom Property 
development  
Development  
and trading 
September 2011 31st August 
Becket House Unit Trust 15 Jersey Investment 
property 
Investment March 2014 31st December 
Cathedral (Brighton) Limited 50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development  
and trading 
May 2014 28th February 
Curzon Park Limited  50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development 
and trading 
November 2006 28th February 
Development Equity Partners Limited 50 Jersey Property 
development  
Development  
and trading 
December 2011 28th February 
DSP Tirol Limited 50 United Kingdom Investment 
property 
Investment January 2015 28th February 
DS Renewables LLP* 50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development  
and trading 
May 2012 28th February 
Harwell Oxford Developments Limited 50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development  
and trading 
December 2013 28th February 
Kensington & Edinburgh Estates (South 
Woodham Ferrers) Limited 
50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development  
and trading 
July 2013 28th February 
Manchester Arena Complex LP 30  United Kingdom Investment 
property 
Investment June 2010 28th February 
Notting Hill (Guernsey Holdco) Limited 24 Guernsey Investment 
property 
Development  
and trading 
June 2011 31st December 
Opportunities of Sittingbourne Limited 50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development  
and trading 
January 2015 28th February 
OSB (Holdco 1) Limited 50 United Kingdom Property 
development 
Development 
and trading 
February 2014 28th February 
Winnebago Holdings Sarl 35 Luxembourg Investment 
property 
Investment April 2012 31st December 
* The company is dormant and therefore no balance sheet or income statement is presented. 
On 19th May 2014, the Group acquired an additional 45.0 per cent of the shares in Purplexed LLP as part of the Cathedral acquisition (refer 
note 26). Accordingly, the company is now accounted for as a subsidiary with effect from that date.  
On 7th March 2014, the Group acquired a 15.0 per cent holding in Becket House Unit Trust with its partner Proprium Finance Cooperatief U.A 
holding the remaining 85.0 per cent. The company is registered and incorporated in Jersey.  
On 19th May 2014, the Group acquired a 50.0 per cent holding in Cathedral (Brighton) Limited with its partner McLaren Property Limited 
holding the remaining 50.0 per cent. The company is registered and incorporated in the United Kingdom.  
On 22nd December 2014, the Group acquired a 50.0 per cent holding in DSP Tirol Limited with its partner Pemberstone Investments Limited 
holding the remaining 50.0 per cent. The company is registered and incorporated in the United Kingdom.  
On 21st January 2015, the Group acquired a 50.0 per cent holding in Opportunities of Sittingbourne Limited with its partner Swale Borough 
Council holding the remaining 50.0 per cent. The company is registered and incorporated in the United Kingdom.  
The Esplanade Partnership Limited was wound up on 24th December 2014 following final distributions being made to the joint venture partners. 
Investments under joint arrangements are not always represented by an equal percentage holding by each partner. In a number of joint ventures, 
the Group holds a minority shareholding but has joint control and therefore the arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture. 136
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
136   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
14 Investments continued 
 
Accrue 
Student 
Housing GP 
 Limited 
 £’000 
Becket 
House Unit 
Trust 
£’000 
Cathedral 
 (Brighton) 
Limited 
 £’000 
Curzon Park 
Limited 
£’000 
Development  
Equity  
Partners  
Limited  
£’000 
DSP Tirol 
Limited 
£’000  
 
– 92,720 – – – 16,513
8,913 3,453 9,902 45,274 552 254
(386) (340) (856) – – (150)
(4,995) (56,527) – (21,010) – (10,313)
3,532 39,306 9,046 24,264 552 6,304
– – – (24,264) – –
1,766 5,897 4,523 – 276 5,043
 
844 4,200 – 202 – 34
(382) (733) – (358) – (49)
6 373 – – – –
(138) (1,327) – (234) – (4)
––––– –
330 2,513 – (390) – (19)
165 377 – (195) – (15)
 
b) Investment in joint ventures continued 
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint ventures, which includes amounts receivable from those joint 
ventures, is as follows: 
        
SUMMARISED BALANCE SHEETS: 
Non-current assets  
Current assets  
Current liabilities  
Non-current liabilities 
Net assets  
Net assets not recognised  
Share of net assets recognised 
SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENTS: 
Revenue 
Direct costs  
Interest income 
Interest costs 
Gain on revaluation 
Profit/(loss) before and after tax  
Share of profit/(loss) before and after tax 
 
 
        
 
 
Accrue 
Student 
Housing GP 
Limited 
£’000 
Becket 
House Unit 
Trust 
£’000 
Cathedral 
 (Brighton) 
Limited 
 £’000 
 
Curzon Park 
Limited 
£’000 
Development  
Equity  
Partners  
Limited  
£’000 
DSP Tirol 
Limited 
£’000  
SUMMARISED BALANCE SHEETS:  
Non-current assets  – – – – – –
Current assets  8,796 – – 44,658 552 –
Current liabilities  (450) – – (20) – –
Non-current liabilities (5,144) – – (21,010) – –
Net assets  3,202 – – 23,628 552 –
Net assets not recognised  – – – (23,628) – –
Share of net assets recognised 1,601 – – – 276 –
SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENTS:  
Revenue 1,022 – – 172 – –
Direct costs  (576) – – (2,530) (8) –
Interest income – – – – – –
Interest costs (292) – – (404) – –
Gain on revaluation – – – – – –
Profit/(loss) before and after tax  154 – – (2,762) (8) –
Share of profit/(loss) before and after tax 77 – – (1,381) (4) –
Any contingent liabilities in relation to our joint ventures are disclosed in note 24.   137
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
136 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
14 Investments continued
Accrue 
Student 
Housing GP
 Limited
£’000
Becket
House Unit 
Trust 
£’000
Cathedral 
 (Brighton) 
Limited
£’000
Curzon Park
Limited
£’000
Development
Equity
Partners
Limited
£’000
DSP Tirol
Limited
£’000
– 92,720 – – – 16,513
8,913 3,453 9,902 45,274 552 254
(386) (340) (856) – – (150)
(4,995) (56,527) – (21,010) – (10,313)
3,532 39,306 9,046 24,264 552 6,304
– – – (24,264) – –
1,766 5,897 4,523 – 276 5,043
844 4,200 – 202 – 34
(382) (733) – (358) – (49)
6 373 – – – –
(138) (1,327) – (234) – (4)
––––– –
330 2,513 – (390) – (19)
165 377 – (195) – (15)
b) Investment in joint ventures continued
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint ventures, which includes amounts receivable from those joint 
ventures, is as follows:
SUMMARISED BALANCE SHEETS:
Non-current assets 
Current assets 
Current liabilities 
Non-current liabilities
Net assets 
Net assets not recognised 
Share of net assets recognised
SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENTS:
Revenue
Direct costs 
Interest income
Interest costs
Gain on revaluation 
Profit/(loss) before and after tax 
Share of profit/(loss) before and after tax
Accrue 
Student
Housing GP 
Limited 
£’000
Becket 
House Unit
Trust 
£’000
Cathedral
(Brighton)
Limited
£’000
Curzon Park
Limited 
£’000
Development
Equity
Partners 
Limited 
£’000
DSP Tirol
Limited 
£’000
SUMMARISED BALANCE SHEETS:
Non-current assets – – – – – –
Current assets 8,796 – – 44,658 552 –
Current liabilities (450) – – (20) – –
Non-current liabilities (5,144) – – (21,010) – –
Net assets 3,202 – – 23,628 552 –
Net assets not recognised – – – (23,628) – –
Share of net assets recognised 1,601 – – – 276 –
SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENTS:
Revenue 1,022 – – 172 – –
Direct costs (576) – – (2,530) (8) –
Interest income – – – – – –
Interest costs (292) – – (404) – –
Gain on revaluation – – – – – –
Profit/(loss) before and after tax 154 – – (2,762) (8) –
Share of profit/(loss) before and after tax 77 – – (1,381) (4) –
Any contingent liabilities in relation to our joint ventures are disclosed in note 24.
137 
2015 
The  
Esplanade 
 Partnership 
 Limited 
 £’000 
Harwell  
Oxford  
Developments  
Limited 
 £’000 
Kensington 
and Edinburgh 
Estates (South 
Woodham 
Ferrers)  
Limited  
£’000 
 Manchester 
Arena 
Complex LP 
£’000 
Notting Hill 
(Guernsey 
Holdco) 
Limited 
£’000 
Opportunities 
of 
Sittingbourne 
Limited 
 £’000 
OSB 
(Holdco 1) 
Limited 
£’000 
Purplexed  
LLP 
 £’000 
Winnebago 
Holdings 
Sarl 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000 
– – – 13 – – – – 30,726 139,972
– 40,200 896 293 56,946 236 32,282 – 1,389 200,590
– (2,028) – (73) (1,700) – (834) – (2,540) (8,907)
– (9,904) – – (25,813) – (26,016) – (14,000) (168,578)
– 28,268 896 233 29,433 236 5,432 – 15,575 163,077
– – – – – – – – – (24,264)
– 7,067 448 175 7,064 118 2,716 – 5,451 40,544
1,656 3,080 – 85 1,521 – 1,350 232 1,486 14,690
(1,444) (2,612) – (11) (8) – (866) (32) (1,503) (7,998)
– 3,788 44 – – – – 278 – 4,489
– (3,896) – – (2,021) – (2,480) (66) (529) (10,695)
– 3,536 – – – – – – 7,117 10,653
212 3,896 44 74 (508) – (1,996) 412 6,571 11,139
106 974 22 56 (122) – (999) 206 2,300 2,875
2014 
The  
Esplanade  
Partnership  
Limited  
£’000 
Harwell  
Oxford  
Developments  
Limited 
 £’000 
Kensington  
and Edinburgh 
Estates (South 
Woodham 
Ferrers)  
Limited  
£’000 
 Manchester 
Arena 
Complex LP 
£’000 
Notting Hill 
(Guernsey 
Holdco) 
Limited
 £’000
Opportunities 
of 
Sittingbourne 
limited
 £’000
OSB 
(Holdco 1) 
Limited
 £’000
Purplexed  
LLP  
£’000 
Winnebago 
 Holdings 
Sarl 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000 
– – – 13 – – – 960 23,500 24,473
1,154 31,216 326 769 56,063 – 24,586 25,920 1,866 195,906
(108) (1,832) – (701) (2,754) – (650) (1,750) (1,746) (10,011)
– (4,828) – – (25,938) – (16,564) (6,466) (13,820) (93,770)
1,046 24,556 326 81 27,371 – 7,372 18,664 9,800 116,598
– – – – – – – – – (23,628)
523 6,139 163 61 6,569 – 3,686 9,332 3,430 31,780
21,138 140 – 6,101 1,600 – 70 3,684 2,400 36,327
(4,898) (1,564) – (1,079) (225) – (22) (766) (880) (12,548)
10 728 – 64 133 – – 1,528 346 2,809
(816) (412) – (672) (3,217) – – (886) (1,060) (7,759)
– – – 1,223 – – – – 2,280 3,503
15,434 (1,108) – 5,637 (1,709) – 48 3,560 3,086 22,332
7,717 (277) – 4,228 (410) – 24 1,780 1,080 12,834 138
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
138 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
14 Investments continued 
15 Inventory 
139,188 78,286 217,474
c) Principal subsidiaries
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under s410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation to related
undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the figures shown in the Company’s Annual
Report. The subsidiaries listed below are those undertakings with net assets in excess of 5.0 per cent of Group net assets. To comply with the
Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
The following were principal subsidiaries at 28th February 2015: 
% holding in Ordinary shares Country of incorporation Principal activity 
Development Securities Estates PLC  100 United Kingdom Management and Investment Company 
Development Securities (Investments) PLC 100 United Kingdom Property Investment  
DS Jersey (No. 1) Limited  100 Jersey Investment  
The total non-controlling interest for the year is £722,000 (2014: £35,000). 
Development  
properties  
£’000 
Trading 
properties 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
DEVELOPMENT AND TRADING PROPERTIES 
At 1st March 2013 86,255 67,161 153,416
Additions: 
– acquisitions 4,733 37,946 42,679
– development expenditure 17,822 8,840 26,662
– transfer from development to trading properties (7,722) 7,722 –
Disposals (14,299) (15,743) (30,042)
Write down of trading properties to net realisable value (182) (50) (232)
At 28th February 2014 86,607 105,876 192,483
Additions: 
– acquisition of subsidiaries (refer note 26) 64,969 – 64,969
– acquisitions 8,742 33,351 42,093
– development expenditure 47,713 4,783 52,496
– transfer from trading to development properties 2,300 (2,300) –
Disposals (69,120) (60,576) (129,696)
Foreign currency differences (1,037) (2,640) (3,677)
Write down of trading properties to net realisable value (986) (208) (1,194)
At 28th February 2015 
Included in the above amounts are projects stated at net realisable value of £18,720,000 (2014: £42,308,000). 
Net realisable value has been estimated by the Directors, taking account of the plans for each project, the planning status and competitive 
position of each asset, and the anticipated market for the scheme. For material developments, the Directors have consulted with third party 
chartered surveyors in setting their market assumptions. 
Interest of £1,735,000 (2014: £51,000) was capitalised on development and trading properties during the year. Capitalised interest included 
within the carrying value of such properties on the Balance Sheet is £2,029,000 (2014: £1,653,000).  139
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
139 
16 Trade and other receivables 
2015 
£’000 
4,238
2015 
£’000 
10,302
–
25,328
1,029
8,175
44,834
17 Trade and other payables 
2015 
£’000 
9,857
2015 
£’000 
13,711
16,256
5,536
28,399
9,995
73,897
2,648 14 2,662
a)  Non-current 
2014 
 £’000 
Prepayments and accrued income 7,652
 
b)  Current 
2014 
£’000 
Trade receivables  2,229
Amounts due from customers for contract work 605
Other receivables  34,227
Other tax and social security  1,596
Prepayments and accrued income  2,178
 40,835
The Group has provided £433,000 (2014: £183,000) for outstanding balances where recovery is considered doubtful. Apart from the 
receivables that have been provided for at the year-end, there are no other material receivables, past due but not impaired. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the receivable. 
Transactions and balances with related parties are disclosed in note 27. 
a) Non-current 
2014 
£’000 
Trade payables 1,500
 
b) Current 
2014 
 £’000 
Trade payables  1,042
Other payables  9,331
Other tax and social security  394
Accruals and deferred income  21,153
Special dividend 2015 –
 31,920
 
c) Provisions 
Onerous 
 leases  
£’000 
Other 
provisions 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
At 1st March 2014  2,948 88 3,036
Charged to the income statement  490 51 541
Credited to the income statement (188) (81) (269)
Utilised during the year (696) (44) (740)
Amortisation of discount  94 – 94
At 28th February 2015 
 
 
    140
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
140   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
17 Trade and other payables continued 
2015 
£’000 
2,412
250
2,662
18 Financial assets and financial liabilities 
2015 
 £’000 
28,448
8,813
37,261
1,700
41,707
19,380
59,949
122,736
159,997
(65,047)
(36,020)
(101,067)
(9,857)
(169,012)
–
(21)
(178,890)
(279,957)
2015 
£’000 
28,448
8,813
37,261
 
c) Provisions continued 
Analysis of total provisions 
2014 
£’000 
Non-current  2,843
Current 193
 3,036
Provisions of £14,000 (2014: £88,000) relate to properties and £2,648,000 (2014: £2,948,000) to onerous leases. 
£1,270,000 (2014: £1,270,000) has been provided to cover the onerous liability associated with leases at three of our serviced office centres. 
Four provisions of £53,000 (2014: £nil), £886,000 (2014: £948,000), £177,000 (2014: £104,000) and £257,000 (2014: £257,000) relate to 
onerous lease obligations entered into in 2014, 2009, 1989 and 1974 respectively. 
The Group has been called as guarantor in respect of three Stead and Simpson Limited leases. £5,000 (2014: £369,000) has been provided to 
cover the Group’s obligations. 
The following table is a summary of the financial assets and financial liabilities included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet: 
 
2014 
 £’000 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Available-for-sale financial assets 19,527
Loan notes at amortised cost less impairment  8,675
 28,202
CURRENT ASSETS  
Loans and receivables 1,700
Trade and other receivables at amortised cost less impairment  38,856
Monies held in restricted accounts and deposits 27,263
Cash and cash equivalents  40,051
 107,870
Total financial assets 136,072
 
CURRENT LIABILITIES  
Trade and other payables at amortised cost  (28,477)
Borrowings at amortised cost  (24,674)
 (53,151)
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES  
Trade and other payables at amortised cost (1,500)
Borrowings at amortised cost  (196,404)
Derivative financial instruments used for hedging at fair value (1,744)
Derivative financial instruments not used for hedging at fair value through profit or loss (451)
 (200,099)
Total financial liabilities  (253,250)
a) Other financial assets 
 
2014 
£’000 
NON-CURRENT 
Available-for-sale financial assets – development loans  19,527
Loan notes at amortised cost less impairment 8,675
 28,202
   141
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
141 
2015 
£’000 
200
1,500
1,700
 2015 
£’000 £’000 
 
– 
2,818 
14,054 
20,000 
(852) 
36,020 
36,020 
2015 
£’000 
–
171,231
(2,219)
169,012
Development loans include a number of working capital and project-specific loans of £9,182,000 (2014: £8,115,000) to Northpoint 
Developments Limited. The loans attract fixed coupon rates of between 5.0 and 13.0 per cent. Included in the above amount is an interest-free 
loan of £208,000 (2014: £208,000). As at 28th February 2015, the Group has made a provision of £228,000 against interest receivable in 
respect of these loans.  
In 2010, the Group provided a £5,000,000 loan to the Curzon Park Limited joint venture in order to repay a share of its bank debt. The joint 
venture partner provided the equivalent amount. In October 2012, the Group, along with our joint venture partner, agreed a three-year repayment 
schedule in respect of the loan facility secured against the 10.5 acre site in Birmingham. £11,500,000 of the loan has been repaid at the 
balance sheet date of which the Group’s share is 50.0 per cent. The balance of £4,110,000 is repayable in full in May 2015. Following further 
review, the Group considers that this amount will be recovered from Curzon Park Limited, either through the compulsory sale of land or on 
development of the residual land retained. As at 28th February 2015, the development loan to Curzon Park is £8,450,000 (2014: £6,150,000). 
The Directors will review the position at each debt repayment date to determine whether the instalments are recoverable from Curzon Park 
Limited in the future or whether they should be expensed in the period in which they are paid. 
The Group has two funding agreements totalling £10,816,000 (2014: £5,262,000), in respect of projects in partnership. The loans attract fixed 
coupon rates of 6.0 and 8.5 per cent. 
The Group holds loan notes with a carrying value of £8,813,000 (2014: £8,675,00), issued by Northpoint Developments Limited, with a fixed 
term of ten years and a fixed coupon rate of 4.25 per cent. As at 28th February 2015, the Group has made a provision of £191,000 (2014: £nil) 
against interest receivable in respect of these loan notes. 
 
2014 
 £’000 
CURRENT 
Loans and receivables: 
Northpoint Developments Limited 200
Property Alliance Group 1,500
 1,700
The Group has provided a short-term, non-interest-bearing loan of £200,000 to Northpoint Developments Limited and £1,500,000 to Property 
Alliance Group as a contribution to a prospective future project, this amount is repayable on demand. 
b) Borrowings 
  2014 
 £’000 £’000 
CURRENT 
Bank overdrafts  –
Current instalments due on bank loans  3,476
Current loans maturing 21,808
First mortgage debenture 11% due 2016 –
Unamortised transaction costs  (610)
 24,674
 24,674
 
 
2014 
 £’000 
NON-CURRENT 
First mortgage debenture 11% due 2016  20,000
Bank loans and loan notes 178,530
Unamortised transaction costs  (2,126)
 196,404
 
Bank loans and the debenture are secured by way of mortgages and legal charges on certain properties and cash deposits held by the Group. 
   142
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
142 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
18 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued 
2015 
£’000 
20,000
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
7,810
3,250
1,425
–
–
1,552
29,036
3,982
1,297
–
10,567
5,794
16,533
34,112
52,192
20,536
–
17
208,103
(2,818)
(14,054)
(20,000)
171,231
£20,000,000 first mortgage fixed rate debenture 
£9,000,000 variable rate loan 
£5,669,000 variable rate loan 
£1,531,000 variable rate loan 
£1,000,000 variable rate loan 
£2,500,000 variable rate loan 
£6,200,000 variable rate loan 
b) Borrowings continued
2014 
£’000 
BORROWINGS 
£20,000,000 first mortgage debenture 2016 20,000
£9,000,000 variable rate loan 2014 9,000
£5,669,000 variable rate loan 2014 5,110
£1,531,000 variable rate loan 2014 1,380
£1,000,000 variable rate loan 2015 934
£2,500,000 variable rate loan 2015 2,367
£6,200,000 variable rate loan 2015 5,320
£10,000,000 variable rate loan 2015 7,965
£7,810,000 variable rate loan 2015 –
£3,300,000 variable rate loan 2015 3,000
£1,550,000 variable rate loan 2015 1,475
£4,500,000 variable rate loan 2015 4,087
£1,500,000 variable rate loan 2015 1,500
£5,000,000 variable rate loan 2015 –
£38,000,000 variable rate loan 2016 37,713
£25,100,000 fixed rate loan 2016  –
€5,430,000 variable rate loan 2016 –
£10,500,000 variable rate loan 2017 10,500
£10,567,000 variable rate loan 2018 –
£5,794,000 variable rate loan 2018 –
€24,307,000 variable rate loan 2018 –
€47,000,000 variable rate loan notes 2021 –
£57,565,000 fixed rate loan 2025 53,586
£22,470,000 fixed rate loan 2025 21,113
€47,000,000 variable rate loan notes 2027 38,747
£16,500 variable rate loan notes 1999 17
223,814
Less: current instalments due on bank loans (3,476)
Current loans maturing (21,808)
First mortgage debenture 11% due 2016 –
198,530
This secured debenture is repayable in one instalment on 6th January 2016. 
This loan was repaid on 30th April 2014. 
This loan was repaid on 28th March 2014. 
This loan was repaid on 28th March 2014. 
This loan was repaid on 8th May 2014. 
This loan was repaid on 3rd March 2015. 
This loan was repaid on 14th April 2014.  143
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
143 
£10,000,000 variable rate loan 
£7,810,000 variable rate loan 
£3,300,000 variable rate loan 
£1,550,000 variable rate loan 
£4,500,000 variable rate loan 
£1,500,000 variable rate loan 
£5,000,000 variable rate loan 
£38,000,000 variable rate loan 
£25,100,000 fixed rate loan 
€5,430,000 variable rate loan 
£10,500,000 variable rate loan 
£10,567,000 variable rate loan 
£5,794,000 variable rate loan 
€24,307,000 variable rate loan 
€47,000,000 variable EURIBOR loan notes 
£57,565,000 fixed rate loan 
This loan was repaid on 10th October 2014. 
This secured loan was repayable in one instalment on 31st March 2015. This facility has since been refinanced and is repayable in 2018. 
This secured loan facility was increased from £3,000,000 to £3,300,000 and extended during the year. The loan is repayable in one instalment 
on 31st July 2015. The current balance outstanding on the facility is £3,250,000. 
£150,000 loan capital amortises over the term of the loan. The remaining £1,400,000 is repayable in one instalment on 9th August 2015. 
The current balance outstanding on the facility is £1,425,000. 
This loan was repaid on 21st November 2014. 
This loan was repaid on 21st November 2014. 
This secured loan is repayable in one instalment on 18th December 2015. This is a development facility where the loan is drawn down over the 
progress of the development. The current balance outstanding on the facility is £1,552,000. 
£2,700,000 loan capital amortises with effect from the second anniversary of the drawdown of the loan. The remaining balance is repayable in 
one instalment on 16th December 2016. £8,024,000 was repaid on 23rd April 2014, following the sale of a secured asset. The current balance 
outstanding on the facility is £29,036,000. 
This secured loan is repayable in one instalment on 19th June 2016. This is a development facility where the loan is drawn down over the 
progress of the development. The current balance outstanding on the facility is £3,982,000. 
This secured loan is repayable in one instalment on 30th June 2016. This is a development facility where the loan is drawn down over the 
progress of the development. The current Sterling balance outstanding on the facility is £1,297,000 at the balance sheet date. 
Instalments of £2,850,000 and £5,150,000 were repaid on 16th May and 18th August 2014 respectively with the balancing amount of 
£2,500,000 being repaid on 23rd October 2014. Instalments were paid as assets secured under the facility were disposed of. 
This is a £9,500,000 secured development facility on which interest can be rolled up. The loan is repayable in one instalment on 31st March 
2018. The current balance outstanding on the facility is £10,567,000 including £1,067,000 of rolled up interest. 
This is a £5,500,000 secured development facility on which interest can be rolled up. The loan is repayable in one instalment on 31st March 
2018. The current balance outstanding on the facility is £5,794,000 including £294,000 of rolled up interest. 
This secured loan is repayable on the earlier of individual units being disposed of or 1st August 2018. The current Sterling balance outstanding 
on the facility is £16,533,000 at the balance sheet date. 
These unsecured, Euro denominated loan notes were issued 27th March 2014 and replace the €47,000,000 variable EURIBOR loan notes 
2027. The loan notes are repayable on 24th April 2021. 
£25,665,000 loan capital amortises over the term of the loan. The remaining £31,900,000 is repayable in one instalment on 12th March 2025. 
The current balance outstanding on the facility is £52,192,000.  144
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
144 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
18 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued 
£22,470,000 fixed rate loan
€47,000,000 variable EURIBOR loan notes 
£16,500 loan notes 
2015 
£’000 
189
228
417
2015 
£’000 
–
(438)
(438)
(21)
Fair value estimation 
b) Borrowings continued
£9,980,000 loan capital amortises over the term of the loan. The remaining £12,490,000 is repayable in one instalment on 12th March 2025.
The current balance outstanding on the facility is £20,536,000.
The interest and repayment terms of these unsecured, Euro denominated loan notes were renegotiated resulting in the repayment of the loan 
notes on 31st March 2014. 
These unsecured loan notes were repayable in 1999. The balance of £16,500 represents the residual amount of unredeemed loan notes. 
A full explanation of the Group’s borrowings and any changes since the balance sheet date can be found in the Financial Review on 
pages 60 to 68. 
c) Derivative financial instruments
Assets 
2014 
£’000 
Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: 
Interest rate swaps, caps and collars 23
Foreign exchange contracts –
Derivative financial assets 23
Liabilities 
2014 
 £’000 
Cash flow hedge: cross-currency interest rate swap (1,744)
Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: 
Interest rate swaps, caps and collars (474)
Derivative financial liabilities (2,218)
Net derivative financial liabilities (2,195)
At 28th February 2015, the Group held interest rate swaps, caps and collars designated as economic hedges and not qualifying as effective 
hedges under IAS 39. The derivatives are used to mitigate the Group’s interest rate exposure to variable rate loans of £63,148,000 (2014: 
£59,230,000). The fair value of the derivatives amounting to £189,000 and £438,000 are recorded as financial assets and liabilities respectively 
at 28th February 2015 (2014: £23,000 asset and £474,000 liability) with the fair value loss taken to finance costs.  
At 28th February 2014, the Group held one cross-currency interest rate swap designated as a hedge of expected future cash flows arising from 
€47,000,000 variable rate loan notes issued in September 2007. This cash flow hedge was cancelled in March 2014 following the renegotiation 
of the loan notes. On cancellation of the hedging arrangements, the Group incurred a foreign currency translation loss of £6,012,000, and paid a 
termination fee of £1,035,000. The Group was also required to write off transaction costs of £870,000. The total of £7,917,000 is shown as an 
exceptional item in the Consolidated income statement. The unwinding of the hedging arrangements also generated a corresponding credit to 
Other comprehensive income of £7,647,000. 
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels are defined as follows: 
(i) Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1).
(ii) Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or
indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2).
(iii) Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3). Discounted cash flows
are used to determine fair values of these instruments. 145
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
145 
  2015 
Level 1  
£’000 
Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
  
– – 28,448 28,448
  
– 189 – 189
– 228 – 228
– 417 28,448 28,865
  
  
  
– – – –
– (438) – (438)
– (438) – (438)
Interest rate maturity profile of financial liabilities 
2015 
Within 
 one year  
£’000  
One to 
 two years 
 £’000 
Two to 
three years 
£’000 
Three to 
four years 
£’000 
Four to  
five years  
£’000 
More than 
 five years 
 £’000 
Total 
£’000 
20,000 – – – – 72,728 92,728
12,629 5,279 – 32,894 – – 50,802
1,425 29,036 – – – 34,112 64,573
34,054 34,315 – 32,894 – 106,840 208,103
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value: 
     2014 
 
Level 1 
£’000 
Level 2 
 £’000 
Level 3 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
ASSETS    
Available-for-sale financial assets – – 19,527 19,527 
Derivative financial instruments:    
Derivative financial instruments at 
fair value through profit or loss – 23 – 23 
Foreign exchange contracts 
through profit or loss – – – – 
Total assets – 23 19,527 19,550 
    
LIABILITIES    
Derivative financial instruments:    
Cross-currency interest rate swap – (1,744) – (1,744)
Derivative financial instruments at 
fair value through profit or loss – (474) – (474)
Total liabilities – (2,218) – (2,218)
d) Financial risk management 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and 
foreign currency risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and 
seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain risk exposures. 
The nature and extent of the Group’s financial risks, and the Directors’ approach to managing those risks, are described in the Financial Review 
on pages 60 to 68 and below. This note provides further detailed information on these risks. 
The Group defines capital as total equity and monitors this on the basis of gearing. 
The following table sets out the carrying amount by maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 
       
 
Fixed rate borrowings 
Variable rate borrowings 
Variable rate borrowings with 
interest rate caps or swaps 
 
 
       2014 
 
Within 
 one year 
£’000  
One to 
 two years 
 £’000 
Two to 
 three years 
£’000 
Three to 
four years 
 £’000 
Four to 
 five years  
£’000 
More than 
 five years 
 £’000 
Total 
£’000 
Fixed rate borrowings – 20,000 – – – 74,699 94,699
Variable rate borrowings 15,318 5,320 10,500 – – – 31,138
Variable rate borrowings with 
interest rate caps or swaps 6,490 15,027 37,713 – – 38,747 97,977
 21,808 40,347 48,213 – – 113,446 223,814
Interest on financial instruments classified as variable rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. The other financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group that are not 
included above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. 
   146
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
146   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
18 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued 
Foreign currency risk 
+8% 3,848
-8% (4,517)
Interest rate risk 
+50 (207)
–50 207
 
d) Financial risk management continued 
During the year the Group has continued to invest in the Republic of Ireland. This increased foreign currency exposure is monitored by the Board. 
Foreign currency risk arises from future commercial transaction, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. 
The Board has set up a policy to manage foreign currency risk against the Group’s functional currency. When the Group acquires property assets 
denominated in Euros, any associated borrowings will also be denominated in Euros to limit exposure. Where appropriate, the Board will also 
require the foreign exchange risk to be hedged.  
As at 28th February 2015, the Group was exposed to foreign currency risk from €47,000,000 (2014: €47,000,000) loan notes denominated in 
Euros and two Euro denominated loan facilities of €24,307,000 and €5,430,000 (2014: €nil). 
Following the renegotiation of the loan notes in March 2014, the Group purchased an option to acquire €25,000,000 during the period to 
31st March 2017 and entered into an interest rate cap arrangement for the loan term in order to manage risk. The Group is no longer required 
to hold Euro denominated cash collateral related to the loan notes and is therefore no longer sensitive to Euro movements in respect of large 
cash balances. 
During the year to 28th February 2015, the movement of Sterling against the Euro was approximately 14.3 per cent. Management consider this 
movement to be exceptional and that an 8.0 per cent movement to be a prudent measure of sensitivity on this basis. 
The following table demonstrates the possible effect of changes in Sterling and Euro exchange rates on loan balances with all other variables 
held constant: 
 
Increase/ 
Decrease 
 in rate 
Effect on loan 
balances 
£’000 
2015 
Sterling against Euro 
 
2014 
Sterling against Euro +8% 2,870
 –8% (3,369)
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates are partially offset by cash held at variable 
rates. The Board closely monitors interest rate risk and considers whether to fix or cap interest rates on a loan by loan basis. Longer term 
facilities tend to be structured with fixed rates whereas for shorter term loans, a cap may be preferred. Similar principles are also employed in 
respect of joint ventures. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity in respect of variable rate debt obligations to a change in interest rates, with other variables 
held constant, of the Group’s profit before income tax. 
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed-rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost as well as variable rate 
financial instruments. 
Fair value interest rate hedging instruments that are part of a hedging relationship have been excluded. Variable rate non-derivative financial 
instruments where the associated interest has been capitalised have also been excluded. 
As at 28th February 2015, a movement of 50 basis points higher or lower, with all other variables held constant, would have the following 
effect on profit before tax. Management consider a movement of 50 basis points to be a reasonable guide to sensitivity in the current 
interest rate environment. 
 
Increase/decrease 
in basis points 
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£’000 
2015 
Sterling borrowings 
 
2014 
Sterling borrowings +50 (144)
 –50 144 147
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
147 
Price risk 
Liquidity risk 
2015 
On demand  
£’000  
Less than 
 three months 
 £’000 
Three to 
twelve months 
 £’000 
One to  
five years  
£’000 
More than 
 five years 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
    
17 10,092 35,078 95,083 130,069 270,339
– 48,791 16,256 9,857 – 74,904
17 58,883 51,334 104,940 130,069 345,243
Market risk 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Fixed rate debt 
The Group is not exposed to commodity or security price risk. 
A review of the Group’s liquidity risk is set out in the Financial Review on page 61. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 28th February 2015 and 2014 on a contractual 
undiscounted payments basis: 
       
 
MATURITY PROFILE OF FINANCIAL 
LIABILITIES 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Trade and other payables 
 
 
       2014 
 
On demand 
 £’000  
Less than 
 three months 
£’000 
Three to 
 twelve months 
£’000 
One to 
five years  
£’000 
More than 
 five years 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
MATURITY PROFILE OF FINANCIAL 
LIABILITIES     
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 2,174 27,828 118,516 142,500 291,035
Trade and other payables – 19,146 9,331 1,500 – 29,977
Derivative financial instruments – 421 1,264 6,742 17,542 25,969
 17 21,741 38,423 126,758 160,042 346,981
A summary of market risk and its effect on the Group is set out in the Risk Review on page 35 and further discussed in the Chief Executive’s 
Report on page 16 and in the Portfolio Review on pages 42 to 59. 
Except as detailed below, in respect of fixed rate debenture and loan facilities, the Directors consider the carrying amount to be either fair value 
or a reasonable approximation of fair value apart from equity instruments classified as available-for-sale assets under IAS 39, where fair value 
cannot be reliably measured. 
A valuation was carried out as at 28th February 2015 by J C Rathbone Associates Limited, to calculate the market value of the Group’s fixed 
rate debt on a replacement basis, taking into account the difference between fixed interest rates for the Group’s borrowings and the market 
value and prevailing interest rate of appropriate debt instruments. Whilst the replacement basis provides a consistent method for valuation of 
fixed rate debt, such financing facilities are in place to provide continuing funding for the Group’s activities. The valuation is therefore only an 
indication of a notional effect on the net asset value of the Group as at 28th February 2015, and may be subject to daily fluctuations in line with 
money market movements. 
J C Rathbone Associates Limited have consented to the use of their name in the financial statements. 
   148
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
148 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
18 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued 
Book value 
2015 
£’000 
Fair value  
2015  
£’000 
20,000 21,485 
52,192 62,508 
20,536 23,449 
92,728 107,442 
19 Deferred income tax 
2015 
£’000 
(3,375)
2,459
(916)
2015 
£’000 
–
–
–
(110) (500) (974) 3,438 1,854
(1,854)
d) Financial risk management continued
The fair value compared to the carrying amounts of the Group’s fixed rate financial liabilities as at 28th February 2015 and 2014
is analysed below:
Book value 
2014 
 £’000 
Fair value 
2014 
£’000 
First mortgage debenture 11% due 2016 20,000 22,833
Fixed rate term loan due 2025  53,586 60,339
Fixed rate term loan due 2025  21,113 22,576
Total fixed rate financial liabilities 94,699 105,748
The fair value difference of £14,714,000 at 28th February 2015 (2014: £11,049,000) represents approximately 15.9 per cent of gross, fixed 
rate borrowings (2014: 11.7 per cent). The effect on net assets per share after tax of this adjustment would be a decrease of 9.3 pence after tax 
(2014: 6.9 pence decrease). 
The following are the deferred income tax liabilities and assets and movements thereon recognised by the Group during the current and previous 
financial year. The UK corporation tax rate decreased on 1st April 2014 from 23.0 per cent to 21.0 per cent. Deferred income tax is calculated 
on the temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20.0 per cent (2014: 20.0 per cent). 
2014 
 £’000 
(Credit)/charge for the year in the income statement (refer note 7) 237
Charged directly to equity  415
652
2014 
£’000 
DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES RECOGNISED: 
Revaluation of property 
At 1st March 2014/2013 743
Credited to the income statement (743)
–
Decelerated 
 capital allowances 
£’000 
Provisions 
£’000 
Tax losses  
£’000  
Net fair value 
 adjustments 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
DEFERRED INCOME TAX (ASSETS)/LIABILITIES 
RECOGNISED: 
At 1st March 2013 (265) (449) (1,043) – (1,757)
Charged to the income statement 41 59 880 – 980
Charged directly to equity  – – 415 – 415
At 28th February 2014 (224) (390) 252 – (362)
Acquired – – (682) 3,814 3,132
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 114 (110) (544) (2,835) (3,375)
Charged directly to equity  – – – 2,459 2,459
At 28th February 2015 
£’000 
Deferred income tax assets 1,588
Deferred income tax liabilities (3,442)
NET DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES  149
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
149 
20 Share capital 
2015 
£’000 
62,529
125,071,211
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle 
the balances net. Deferred income tax assets arising from the Group’s trading and capital losses are recognised on the basis that there will be 
sufficient profits in the foreseeable future to utilise such losses. The Group has not recognised deferred income tax assets of £7,165,000 
(2014: £5,047,000) in respect of losses amounting to £35,823,000 (2014: £25,223,000) that can be carried forward against future 
taxable income. 
Movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances) are shown above. 
2014 
£’000 
Issued, called up and fully paid 
125,057,003 Ordinary shares of 50 pence (2014: 122,352,504 Ordinary shares of 50 pence) 61,176
Number of shares 
Shares in issue at the date of this report 
The Company has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
The Group issued 2,575,116 shares on 14th May 2014, 2.10 per cent of the total Ordinary share capital issued, to the majority shareholder of 
Cathedral Group as part of the purchase consideration for 100 per cent of its Ordinary share capital. The Ordinary shares issued have the same 
rights as the other shares in issue. The fair value of the shares issued amounted to £6,013,000 (£2.335 per share).  
The Company acquired 123,397 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange in 2012. The total amount paid to 
acquire the shares, net of income tax, was £171,000 and has been deducted from shareholder equity. The shares are held as ‘Treasury shares’. 
The Company has the right to re-issue these shares at a later date. All shares were fully paid. During the year, 4,605 shares were sold out of 
treasury shares to satisfy a good leaver under the save as you earn scheme. The number of treasury shares held as at 28th February 2015 is 
118,792 shares. 
Share option schemes 
As at 28th February 2015, and at the date of this report, the options outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes were exercisable 
as set out below (price stated in pence per share). The share options are more fully described in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97. 
On 27th February 2015, 14,208 of the 14,918 options over shares from the Save As You Earn option scheme, granted on 24 October 2011, 
were exercised, however these shares were not allotted until 2nd March 2015, leaving 710 options over shares unexercised at the date of 
this report. 
Save as you earn option plan 2005: 
Date of grant  
28.02.15 
 Number 
29.04.15 
Number Exercise dates Price 
24th October 2011 14,918 710 1st December 2014 to 31st May 2015 152.0
22nd December 2014 321,275 – 1st February 2018 to 31st July 2018 179.2
336,193 710 150
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
150   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
20 Share capital continued 
2015 
Number 
Weighted 
 average  
exercise  
price  
(pence) 
221,972 213.1 
321,275 179.2 
(129,383) 152.0 
(69,382) 347.5 
(8,289) 152.0 
336,193 174.2 
2015 
570,592 
22nd May 2014 
244.0 
51.00% 
32 
 
Share-based payments 
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices of, and movements in, share options during the year: 
   2014 
 Number 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price 
(pence)
At 1st March 2014/2013 557,203 270.9
Options granted  ––
Options exercised ––
Options lapsed (306,457) 323.9
Options cancelled (28,774) 152.0
 221,972 213.1
321,275 Save As You Earn options were granted during the year. The average share price during the year was 222.0 pence (2014: 204.8 
pence). Of the 336,193 (2014: 221,972) outstanding options at 28th February 2015, 14,918 were exercisable (2014: 69,382). 
The options outstanding at 28th February 2015 were exercisable at 152.0 pence and 179.2 pence per share and have a weighted average 
remaining contractual life of 1.8 years (2014: 0.7 years). 
The fair value of grants is measured at the grant date using a Black-Scholes pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the instruments were granted. The services received and a liability to pay for those services are recognised over the expected vesting 
period. The main assumptions of the Black-Scholes pricing model are as follows: 
Grant date  22.12.14 24.10.11 
Exercise price (pence)  179.2 152.0
Term (years)  33
Expected volatility  24% 41%
Expected dividend yield p.a.  2.3% 3.2%
Risk-free rate  0.9% 0.9%
Expected forfeiture p.a.  Nil Nil
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Development Securities PLC share price over multiple time 
periods. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the 
actual outcome. 
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. 
Conditional awards under the Performance Share Plan 
The terms of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97. 
Ordinary shares conditionally awarded under the Performance Share Plan are valued at their fair value on the date of the award, using an Equal 
Probability Model, which takes into account the probability of the Ordinary shares vesting based on an equal probability of achieving appropriate 
total shareholder return ranking as determined under the performance condition. 
The principal assumptions for calculating the fair value of the Ordinary shares conditionally awarded are: 
 2014 
Ordinary shares conditionally awarded (no. of shares) 870,143
Date of award 29th May 2013
Share price (pence) 192.0
Percentage probability applied for fair value 51.00%
Vesting period (months) 32
The expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the year is £21,000 charge 
(2014: £12,000 credit). 
The charge recognised for cash-settled share-based payments during the year is £nil (2014: £nil).  151
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
151 
21 Reserves and movements in equity 
62,529 104,094 (1,702) 1,631 44,188 4,725 (165)
130,358
 
 
 
Share capital  
£’000  
Share premium 
£’000 
Net unrealised 
gain/(loss)
 reserve 
£’000 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000 
Capital reserve  
£’000  
Merger reserve 
£’000 
Treasury shares 
£’000 
At 1st March 2013 61,176 103,961 (5,906) 1,631 44,188 – (171)
Fair value of cross-currency 
interest rate swap  – – 1,798 – – – –
Deferred income tax charged 
directly to equity – – (415) – – – –
Currency translation differences 
– Group – – (104) – – – –
At 28th February 2014 61,176 103,961 (4,627) 1,631 44,188 – (171)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,288 – – – – 4,725 –
Employee share option scheme 65 133 – – – – 6
Termination of cross-currency 
interest rate swap – – 7,647 – – – –
Deferred income tax charged 
directly to equity – – (2,459) – – – –
Currency translation differences 
– Group – – (2,263) – – – –
At 28th February 2015 
The Capital redemption reserve arose from business combinations in prior financial years. This reserve is not distributable.  
The merger reserve comprises the premium on shares following the share issue to acquire the Cathedral Group. No share premium is recorded 
in the Company’s financial statements through the operation of the Merger Relief provisions of the Companies Act 2006.  
Retained earnings 
 £’000 
At 1st March 2013 101,731
Profit for the year 18,236
Share based payments (12)
Final dividend 2013  (2,934)
Interim dividend 2014  (2,934)
At 28th February 2014 114,087
Profit for the year 33,276
Share based payments (21)
Final dividend 2014  (3,994)
Interim dividend 2015  (2,995)
Special dividend 2015 (9,995)
At 28th February 2015 
  152
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
152   137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
22 Note to the cash flow statement 
2015 
£’000 
34,757
(3,843)
(7,824)
(175)
(2,875)
86
(521)
20
(7,914)
12,751
2,724
7,917
875
238
36,216
37,951
(10,137)
16,575
(450)
80,155
23 Financial commitments and operating lease arrangements 
2015 
 £’000 
3,679
2015 
£’000 
3,124
8,253
7,127
18,504
 
Reconciliation of profit before income tax to net cash outflow from operating activities: 
 
2014 
 £’000 
Profit before income tax  19,527
Adjustments for:  
Gain on disposal of investment properties  (539)
Gain on revaluation of property portfolio  (3,109)
Other income (471)
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates (12,834)
Loss from sale of investment 250
Profit from sale of joint venture –
Loss/(profit) on sale of other plant and equipment  (34)
Finance income (2,552)
Finance cost 13,532
Exceptional item: acquisition costs associated with business combination –
Exceptional item: termination of cross currency interest rate swap –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  768
Amortisation of goodwill –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 14,538
Decrease/(increase) in development and trading properties (38,930)
Increase in receivables  (16,018)
Increase in payables 7,911
Decrease in provisions  (28)
Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities  (32,527)
Capital commitments 
At 28th February 2015, the Group had contracted capital expenditure of £nil (2014: £nil). In addition, the Group has commitments for loans to 
its associates amounting to £nil (2014: £2,100,000). 
Operating lease arrangements: 
Operating lease arrangements in respect of land and buildings where the Group is lessee: 
 
2014 
£’000 
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised for the year 3,679
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows: 
 
2014 
£’000 
Within one year  3,679
In the second to fifth years inclusive  9,548
After five years  8,955
 22,182
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its leasehold properties. Leases were negotiated for an average 
term of 15.3 years (2014: 15.3 years). 
   153
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
153 
2015 
£’000 
20,384
69,006
127,080
216,470
24 Contingent liabilities 
25 Pension scheme 
26 Business combinations 
38,014
In respect of operating lease arrangements where the Group is lessor, at the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for the 
following future minimum payments: 
2014 
 £’000 
Within one year  17,125
In the second to fifth years inclusive 56,281
After five years  118,659
192,065
Property investment income earned during the year was £12,891,000 (2014: £15,054,000). 
In the normal course of its development activity, the Group is required to guarantee performance bonds provided by banks in respect of certain 
obligations of Group companies. At 28th February 2015, such guarantees amounted to £10,129,000 (2014: £4,708,000). 
The Group has provided guarantees for rent liabilities in respect of properties previously occupied by Group companies. In the event that the 
current tenants ceased to pay rent, the Group would be liable to cover any shortfall until the building could be re-let. The Group has made 
provision against crystallised liabilities in this regard. In respect of potential liabilities where no provision has been made, the annual rent-roll 
of the buildings benefitting from such guarantees is £279,000 (2014: £279,000) with an average unexpired lease period of 3.1 years 
(2014: 4.1 years). 
The Group has guaranteed its 50.0 per cent share of the capital and interest payable by Curzon Park Limited, a joint venture, in respect of the 
company’s borrowings of £4,110,000 (refer note 18(a)). 
The Group has guaranteed its share of interest up to a maximum of £575,000 in respect of the £26,000,000 loan in Notting Hill (Guernsey 
Holdco) Limited. 
The Company operates a defined contribution scheme for Directors and employees. Monthly premia are invested in an independent insured fund. 
The amounts charged to the income statement during the year are set out in note 5. 
On 19th May 2014, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued shares in Cathedral Group (Holdings) Limited, Cathedral Special Projects 
(Holdings) Limited and Cathedral (ESCO) Limited and 95.0 percent of the shares issued in Deadhare Limited (Cathedral Group), a property 
development group specialising in mixed-use regeneration schemes in the South East. 
As at 28th February 2014, the balance sheet value of the Group’s interest in the Cathedral Group was £13,765,000, analysed as Investment in 
joint venture £9,332,000 and Available-for-sale financial assets of £4,433,000. 
Details of the purchase consideration, the identifiable net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: 
£’000 
Purchase consideration 
– Cash paid 11,005
– Shares 6,013
– Contingent consideration 2,500
– Deferred consideration 3,373
Total consideration transferred 22,891
Fair value of equity interest in joint venture 10,345
Fair value of interest in financial asset 4,778
Total consideration  154
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
154 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
26 Business combinations continued 
38,014
27 Related parties 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: 
Provisional 
fair value 
£’000 
Cash and cash equivalents 4,080
Monies held in restricted accounts and deposits 6,529
Inventory – development and trading properties 64,969
Interest in joint ventures 3,959
Trade and other receivables 1,585
Trade and other payables (21,323)
Borrowings (20,687)
Net deferred tax liabilities (3,131)
Total identifiable assets acquired 35,981
Non-controlling interest (26)
Goodwill 2,059
Total consideration 
The goodwill of £2,059,000 is attributable to Cathedral Group Holdings Limited’s expertise and reputation and expected future profits 
of development projects that were acquired. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
Acquisition-related costs of £2,724,000 have been charged to exceptional items in the Consolidated income statement for the year ended 
28th February 2015. 
The fair value adjustments in respect of inventory relate to specific projects that have been independently valued at the date of acquisition. The 
fair value has been adjusted for project specific risks and uncertainties that may impact the profit level. These adjustments are provisional and 
are based on management’s best estimates. 
The contingent consideration requirement requires the Group to pay the former owners of Cathedral Group Holdings Limited £2,500,000 on 
securing a named development scheme. The contingent consideration was paid in full in July 2014.  
A further £4,000,000 deferred consideration is payable on completion of the Morden Wharf and Preston Barracks developments should the 
performance of these schemes significantly exceed the Board’s expectations and overall returns from Cathedral schemes surpass pre- 
determined levels. No provision has currently been made for this consideration. The Board will continue to monitor the Cathedral schemes. 
£1,187,000 of consideration has been deferred for one year and £2,186,000 for two years. No performance conditions are associated with 
payment of this consideration 
The acquired business contributed revenues of £31,032,000 and a net profit of £3,551,000 to the Group for the period from 19th May 2014 to 
28th February 2015. If the acquisition had occurred on 1st March 2014, consolidated revenue and consolidated loss for the year ended 28th 
February 2015 would have been £33,667,000 and £1,205,000 respectively. 
During the year, the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. 
Transactions entered into and balances outstanding at 28th February 2015 and 2014 with related parties are set out below. Only Directors are 
considered to be key management personnel.  
Richard Upton, an Executive Director of the Group, received rental income in respect of the Cathedral premises of £180,000 during the period 
from 19th May 2014 to 28th February 2015. £15,000 was outstanding at the balance sheet date.  
Barry Bennett, a Non-executive Director of the Group, is a Director and holds six B shares in Deadhare Limited. Development Securities PLC 
owns 100 A shares in Deadhare Limited. Prior to the period under review, Barry made a loan of £1,500,000 to Deadhare Limited which remains 
outstanding at the balance sheet date. The loan has a nominal annual interest chargeable at 4.0 per cent. The total return is based on an IRR of 
20.0 per cent or two-times principal whichever is the higher at the time of repayment plus a share of super profits. A charge is held over the 
assets of the borrower and over the share capital of Deadhare Limited. This related party transaction is reportable as a result of Development 
Securities acquisition of the Cathedral Group in May 2014.   155
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
155 
28 Projects in partnership 
2015 
£’000 
276
2,500
1,500
3,977
–
6,923
4,752
4,267
–
1,329
18,195
–
8,450
9,487
1,500
1,766
5,897
4,523
276
5,043
–
–
7,067
448
175
7,064
118
2,716
–
5,451
103,700
There were no further transactions with Directors other than remuneration set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97. 
Finance income 
from related 
parties 
£’000 
Amounts owed by 
related parties 
(before provision) 
£’000 
JOINT VENTURES 
2015  1,567 30,905
2014  2,358 32,695
ASSOCIATES 
2015 619 22,624
2014 821 20,566
The following is a summary of the Group’s projects in partnership and the Balance Sheet classification of its financial interests: 
Project/partner Project activity Accounting classification 
2014 
£’000 
Atlantic Park (Bideford) Limited Strategic land investment Investment in associates 276
Barwood Development Securities Limited Strategic land investment Investment in associates 2,500
Barwood Land and Estates Limited Strategic land investment Investment in associates 1,500
CDSR Burlington House Developments Limited Property development Investment in associates –
Wessex Property Fund Property investment Investment in associates –
Beyond Green Developments Limited Property development Development properties 6,437
Wessex Investors Property development Development properties 3,818
Grantham Associates Limited Hotel operator Trading property 4,267
Cathedral (Greenwich Beach) Limited Property development Financial assets 4,433
Cathedral (Movement, Greenwich) LLP Property development Financial assets 829
Northpoint Developments Limited Property development Financial assets 16,990
Curzon Park Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures –
Curzon Park Limited Property development Financial assets 6,150
Deeley Freed Limited Property development Financial assets –
Property Alliance Group Property development Financial assets 1,500
Accrue Student Housing GP Limited  Student accommodation Investment in joint ventures 1,601
Becket House Unit Trust  Investment property Investment in joint ventures –
Cathedral (Brighton) Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures –
Development Equity Partners Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures 276
DSP Tirol Limited Investment property Investment in joint ventures –
DS Renewables LLP Property development Investment in joint ventures –
The Esplanade Partnership Limited Property trading Investment in joint ventures 522
Harwell Oxford Developments Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures 6,140
Kensington & Edinburgh Estates 
(South Woodham Ferrers) Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures 163
Manchester Arena Complex LP Investment property Investment in joint ventures 61
Notting Hill (Guernsey Holdco) Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures 6,569
Opportunities of Sittingbourne Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures –
Orion Land & Leisure Limited Property development Investment in joint ventures 3,686
Purplexed LLP Property development Investment in joint ventures 9,332
Winnebago Holdings Sarl Investment property Investment in joint ventures 3,430
80,480 156
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015
156 137 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
28 Projects in partnership continued 
2015 
 £’000 
8,253
40,544
1,700
37,261
11,675
4,267
103,700
29 Post balance sheet events 
The aggregate amounts included within each relevant Balance Sheet account are as follows: 
2014 
£’000 
Investment in associates 4,276
Investment in joint ventures 31,780
Financial assets – current 1,700
Financial assets – non-current 28,202
Development properties 10,255
Trading properties 4,267
80,480
As at 28th February 2015, the Group had exchanged contracts for the sale of a trading asset. This sale has since successfully completed. 
As part of the acquisition of Cathedral, the Group acquired a 50 per cent holding of Cathedral (Brighton) Limited with McLaren Property Limited 
holding the remaining 50 per cent. Since the year end the Group has acquired McLaren’s 50 per cent holding and therefore now holds 100 per 
cent of Cathedral (Brighton) Limited.   157
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
157 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC 
Report on the Company financial statements 
Other required reporting 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Other matter 
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Development Securities PLC’s Company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”): 
— give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 
28th February 2015; 
— have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
— have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
What we have audited 
Development Securities PLC’s Company financial statements 
comprise: 
— the Company Balance Sheet as at 28th February 2015; and 
— the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
Consistency of other information 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK 
& Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is: 
— materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
— apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
— otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
— we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
— adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
— the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.  
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An 
audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:  
— whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed;  
— the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
— the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Development Securities PLC for the year ended 28th February 2015. 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
29th April 2015 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVELOPMENT SECURITIES PLC 158
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
158 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
2015 
£’000 £’000 
206
18,669
122,880
141,755 
720
1,700
398,951
45,518
446,889
(175,626)
271,263 
413,018 
(102,871)
(944)
(103,815) 
309,203 
62,529 
104,094 
6,191 
136,389 
309,203 
M H Marx 
2014 
Notes £’000 £’000 
FIXED ASSETS  
Tangible assets  33 410
Debtors – loans and receivables 37 8,115
Investments  34 93,610
102,135
CURRENT ASSETS  
Trading properties 35 307
Debtors – loans and receivables 37 1,700
Debtors  36 416,938
Cash at bank and in hand 22,278
441,223
CREDITORS  
Amounts falling due within one year 38(a) (149,686)
Net current assets 291,537
Total assets less current liabilities 393,672
CREDITORS  
Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
Bank loans 38(b) (71,887)
Provisions for liabilities  38(c) (1,317)
(73,204)
Net assets 320,468
CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Called up share capital  39 61,176
Share premium account 40 103,961
Other reserves  40 1,460
Profit and loss account  40 153,871
Total shareholders’ funds 320,468
The notes on pages 159 to 164 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
Approved by the Board of Directors on 29th April 2015 and signed on its behalf by 
Director 
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 159
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
159 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
30 Accounting policies 
a) Basis of accounting
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with applicable laws, United Kingdom accounting
standards, on a going concern basis and under the historical cost
convention. The accounting policies adopted are consistent with the
previous year and are set out below.
The Company has not presented its own Profit and Loss account, as 
permitted by s408 of the Companies Act 2006. The loss after tax for 
the year was £477,000 (2014: £19,927,000 profit). 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing 
a Cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1. 
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption in 
paragraph 2D of FRS 29, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and has 
not disclosed information required by that standard, as the Group’s 
Consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, 
provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7, ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’. 
Following the publication of FRS 100, ‘Application of financial 
reporting requirements’, by the Financial Reporting Council, 
Development Securities PLC is required to change its accounting 
framework for its entity financial statements, which is currently UK 
GAAP, for its financial year commencing 1st March 2015. The Board 
considers that it is in the best interests of the group for the Company 
to adopt FRS 102, ‘Reduced disclosure framework’. No disclosures in 
the current UK GAAP financial statements would be omitted on 
adoption of FRS 101. A shareholder or shareholders holding in 
aggregate 5.0 per cent or more of the total allotted shares in 
Development Securities PLC can serve objections to the use of the 
disclosure exemptions on Development Securities PLC, in writing, to 
its registered office Portland House, Bressenden Place, London 
SW1E 5DS not later than 31st August 2015. 
The financial statements were approved by the Directors for issue on 
29th April 2015. 
b) Investments
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures are accounted for in the financial statements at cost less any
provision for impairment.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
c) Operating leases
Rental payments under operating leases are charged on a straight-line
basis to the profit and loss account over the lease term even if the
payments are not made on such a basis.
d) Tangible assets
Tangible assets are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and
any provision for impairment. Cost includes the original purchase price
of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its
working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is provided so as
to write off the cost less estimated residual value of such assets over
their expected useful lives on a straight-line basis. The principal annual
rates used for this purpose are as follows:
Fixtures and fittings and computer equipment – 10% to 33%
Motor vehicles – 20%
e) Trading properties
Trading properties are carried as inventory and stated at the lower of
cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost also includes directly
attributable expenditure. No element of overhead is included in cost,
since it is not practical to identify overhead amounts in respect of
particular assets. Where Directors consider that the costs are not
recoverable from the proposed scheme, the project or site is written
down to its net realisable value, with the write-down taken to the profit
and loss account. Net realisable value is calculated as the estimated
realisable value of the project or site, based upon our current plans,
less all further costs to be incurred in making the sale.
f) Provisions for liabilities
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the
amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure 
expected to be required to settle the obligation. The accretion in the 
discount is recognised as an interest expense. 
g) Taxation
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the
year, using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date, together
with any adjustment in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in 
the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the 
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences or unutilised 
tax losses can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Income 
tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in 
equity and not in the profit and loss account. Deferred tax is measured 
on a non-discounted basis. 
h) Pension schemes
The Company operates a defined contribution scheme on behalf of
the Development Securities PLC Group. The charge to the profit and
loss in the year represents the actual amount payable to the scheme in
the year. Differences between contributions payable in the year and
contributions paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the
Balance Sheet.
i) Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into UK
Sterling at the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance
sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date. Exchange
movements are dealt with in the Profit and Loss account.
j) Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of share-based compensation plans,
the majority of which are cash-settled, under which the entity receives
services from employees as consideration for cash-settled instruments
of the Company. The fair value of the employee services received in
exchange for the grant of the option is recognised as an expense.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 160
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
160 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
30 Accounting policies continued 
31 Auditors’ remuneration 
32 Operating lease arrangements 
2015 
 £’000 
1,168
2015 
£’000 
–
831
763
1,594
33 Tangible assets 
1,167 110 1,277
1,000 71 1,071
167 39 206
j) Share-based payments continued
The Company has used a Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of share options granted. An equal probability
model has been used to determine the fair value of share awards under the Performance Share Plan. The cost of cash-settled transactions
with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense
over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. In valuing cash-settled
transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company
(market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition which 
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of cash-settled share-based 
instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The 
movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the Profit and Loss account, with a corresponding entry 
in accruals. 
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of the audit for the Company was £15,000 (2014: £15,000). 
2014 
£’000 
The Company as lessee: 
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised for the year 1,168
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows 
2014 
£’000 
Operating leases which expire: 
Within one year  –
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1,168
After five years  763
1,931
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Company for its office property. The lease payments were negotiated for an average 
term of 11.5 years (2014: 11.5 years). 
Fixtures and 
fittings and 
computer 
equipment 
 £’000  
Motor vehicles 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
COST 
At 1st March 2014 1,164 110 1,274
Additions  45 33 78
Disposals  (42) (33) (75)
At 28th February 2015 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 
At 1st March 2014 790 74 864
Charge for the year 234 19 253
Disposals  (24) (22) (46)
At 28th February 2015 
Net book amount 28th February 2015 
Net book amount 28th February 2014 374 36 410
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 161
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
161 
34 Investments 
Net book amount 28th February 2015 114,067 – 8,813 122,880
35 Trading properties 
At 28th February 2015 720
36 Debtors 
2015 
£’000 
10
385,979
1,388
8,634
2,504
436
398,951
37 Debtors – loans receivable 
2015 
£’000 
18,669
2015 
£’000 
1,700
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£’000 
Interest in 
associated 
undertakings 
£’000  
Interest 
in loan notes 
 £’000 
Total 
£’000 
COST: 
At 1st March 2014 133,465 997 8,675 143,137
Additions 29,132 – 138 29,270
At 28th February 2015 162,597 997 8,813 172,407
AMOUNTS PROVIDED:  
At 1st March 2014 and 28th February 2015 (48,530) (997) – (49,527)
Net book amount 28th February 2014 84,935 – 8,675 93,610
The Company holds £8,813,000 (2014: £8,675,000) of loan notes in Northpoint Developments Limited, a company incorporated and registered 
in the United Kingdom. £8,425,000 (2014: £8,425,000) of the loan notes earn interest at a fixed rate of 4.25 per cent per annum 
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are set out in note 14(c) of the Group financial statements. 
Freehold 
£’000 
NET REALISABLE VALUE: 
At 1st March 2014 307
Additions 413
2014 
£’000 
Trade debtors  15
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  408,055
Amounts owed by associated undertakings 535
Other debtors  6,970
Other taxation recoverable  1,088
Prepayments  275
416,938
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand. 
2014 
£’000 
FIXED ASSETS 
Loans to joint operations 8,115
2014 
 £’000 
CURRENT ASSETS 
Loans and receivables 1,700
Development loans to joint operations include a number of working capital and project-specific loans of £9,182,000 (2014: £8,115,000) to 
Northpoint Developments Limited. The loans attract fixed coupon rates of between 5.0 and 13.0 per cent. Included in the above amount is an 
interest-free loan of £208,000 (2014: £208,000). As at 28th February 2015, the Group has made a provision of £228,000 against interest 
receivable in respect of these loans. 
The Group has a funding agreement of £9,487,000 (2014: £nil) in respect of a project in partnership. The loan attracts a fixed coupon rate 
of 6.0 per cent. 
The Company also provided a short-term, non-interest bearing loan of £200,000 to Northpoint Developments Limited and £1,500,000 to 
Property Alliance Group, repayable on demand, as a contribution to a prospective future project.  162
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
162 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
38 Creditors 
2015 
£’000 
17
3,038
187
150,787
1,932
4,678
4,992
9,995
175,626
2015 
£’000 
102,871
2015 
£’000 
944
39 Called up share capital 
2015 
£’000 
62,529
125,071,211
a) Amounts falling due within one year
2014 
£’000 
Bank loans and overdrafts – unsecured 17
Bank loans – secured  1,886
Trade creditors  179
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  135,730
Amounts owed to associated undertakings 1,932
Other creditors  1,654
Accruals and deferred income 8,288
Special dividend 2015 –
149,686
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand. 
b) Amounts falling due after more than one year
2014 
 £’000 
Bank loans 71,887
c) Amounts falling due after more than one year
2014 
£’000 
Provisions for liabilities 1,317
Provision of £939,000 (2014: £948,000) relate to two onerous lease obligations entered into in 2009 and 2014. Development Securities PLC 
has been called upon as guarantor to take over three leases in respect of Stead and Simpson Limited. £5,000 (2014: £369,000) has been 
provided to cover obligations in respect of those leases. 
2014 
£’000 
Issued, called up and fully paid 
125,057,003 Ordinary shares of 50 pence (2014: 122,352,504 Ordinary shares of 50 pence) 61,176
Number of shares 
Shares in issue at the date of this report 
The Company has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
The Group issued 2,575,116 shares on 14th May 2014, 2.10 per cent of the total ordinary share capital issued, to the majority shareholder of 
Cathedral Group as part of the purchase consideration for 100 per cent of its ordinary share capital. The Ordinary shares issued have the same 
rights as the other shares in issue. The fair value of the shares issued amounted to £6,013,000 (£2.335 per share).  
The Company acquired 123,397 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange in 2012. The total amount paid to 
acquire the shares, net of income tax, was £171,000 and has been deducted from shareholder equity. The shares are held as ‘Treasury shares’. 
The Company has the right to re-issue these shares at a later date. All shares were fully paid. During the year, 4,605 shares were sold out of 
treasury shares to satisfy a good leaver under the save as you earn scheme. The number of treasury shares held as at 28th February 2015 are 
118,792 shares. 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 163
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
163 
2015 
Number 
Weighted 
 average  
exercise  
price  
(pence) 
221,972 213.1 
321,275 179.2 
(129,383) 152.0 
(69,382) 347.5 
(8,289) 152.0 
336,193 174.2 
Share option schemes 
As at 28th February 2015, and at the date of this report, the options outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes were exercisable 
as set out below (price stated in pence per share). The share options are more fully described in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97. 
On 27th February 2015, 14,208 of the 14,918 options over shares from the Save As You Earn option scheme granted on 24 October 2011 
were exercised, however these shares were not allotted until 2nd March 2015, leaving 710 options over shares unexercised at the date of 
this report. 
Save as you earn option plan 2005: 
Date of grant  
28.02.15 
 Number 
29.04.15 
Number Exercise dates Price 
24th October 2011 14,918 710 1st December 2014 to 31st May 2015 152.0
22nd December 2014 321,275 – 1st February 2018 to 31st July 2018 179.2
336,193 710
Share-based payments 
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices of, and movements in, share options during the year: 
2014 
Number 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price 
(pence)
At 1st March 2014/2013 557,203 270.9
Options granted  ––
Options exercised ––
Options lapsed (306,457) 323.9
Options cancelled (28,774) 152.0
221,972 213.1
321,275 Save As You Earn options were granted during the year. The average share price during the year was 222.0 pence (2014: 204.8 
pence). Of the 336,193 (2014: 221,972) outstanding options at 28th February 2015, 14,918 were exercisable (2014: 69,382). 
The options outstanding at 28th February 2015 were exercisable at 152.0 pence and 179.2 pence per share and have a weighted average 
remaining contractual life of 1.8 years (2014: 0.7 years). 
The fair value of grants is measured at the grant date using a Black-Scholes pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the instruments were granted. The services received and a liability to pay for those services are recognised over the expected vesting 
period. The main assumptions of the Black-Scholes pricing model are as follows: 
Grant date  22.12.14 24.10.11 
Exercise price (pence)  179.2 152.0
Term (years)  33
Expected volatility  24% 41%
Expected dividend yield p.a. 2.3% 3.2%
Risk-free rate  0.9% 0.9%
Expected forfeiture p.a.  Nil Nil
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Development Securities PLC share price over multiple time 
periods. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the 
actual outcome. 
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. 
Conditional awards under the Performance Share Plan 
The terms of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 97. 
Ordinary shares conditionally awarded under the Performance Share Plan are valued at their fair value on the date of the award, using an Equal 
Probability Model, which takes into account the probability of the Ordinary shares vesting based on an equal probability of achieving appropriate 
total shareholder return ranking as determined under the performance condition.  164
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
164 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 
39 Called up share capital continued 
2015 
570,592 
22nd May 2014 
244.0 
51.00% 
32 
40 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
At 28th February 2015 62,529 104,094 1,631 4,725 (165) 
At 28th February 2015 136,389 
41 Contingent liabilities 
42 Related parties 
The principal assumptions for calculating the fair value of the Ordinary shares conditionally awarded are: 
2014 
Ordinary shares conditionally awarded (no. of shares) 870,143
Date of award 29th May 2013
Share price (pence) 192.0
Percentage probability applied for fair value 51.00%
Vesting period (months) 32
The expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the year is £21,000 charge 
(2014: £12,000 credit). 
The charge recognised for cash-settled share-based payments during the year is £nil (2014: £nil). 
Called up share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium account 
£’000 
Capital 
 redemption 
 reserve  
£’000  
Merger reserve 
£,000 
Treasury 
shares 
£’000 
At 1st March 2014 61,176 103,961 1,631 – (171)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,288 – – 4,725 – 
Employee share option scheme 65 133 – – 6 
£’000 
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 
At 1st March 2013 139,824 
Profit for the financial year  19,927 
Share-based payments (12) 
Final dividend 2013 (2,934) 
Interim dividend 2014 (2,934) 
At 28th February 2014 153,871 
Loss for the financial year (477) 
Share-based payments (21) 
Final dividend 2014 (3,994) 
Interim dividend 2015 (2,995) 
Special dividend 2015 (9,995) 
The loss after tax of the Company was £477,000 (2014: £19,927,000 profit). 
The contingent liabilities of the Group are set out in note 24. The Company has provided guarantees in respect of loans and overdrafts of its 
subsidiary entities totalling £136,258,000 (2014: £149,098,000). In addition, the Company has guaranteed the performance of subsidiary 
entities under a range of operating obligations, none of which is expected to give rise to a liability in the Company. 
Related party transactions are the same for the Company as for the Group. Details can be found in note 27 of the Group financial statements. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption within FRS 8, not to disclose transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries. 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2015 165 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 
Annual General Meeting 14th July 2015
Payment of Ordinary dividend 20th August 2015
Announcement of Interim Results to 31st August 2015 October 2015
Company Secretary 
Registered office 
Website address 
Registered number 
Incorporation 
Auditors 
Principal bankers 
Corporate solicitors 
Financial advisors 
Corporate stockbrokers 
Registrars and transfer office 
C Barton ACIS 
Portland House 
Bressenden Place 
London SW1E 5DS 
Telephone: 020 7828 4777 
Facsimile: 020 7828 4999 
www.developmentsecurities.com 
1528784 
Development Securities PLC is incorporated in Great Britain 
and registered in England and Wales 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Aviva Commercial Finance Limited 
Barclays Bank PLC 
Lloyds Banking Group 
Santander Group 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Linklaters LLP 
Rothschild 
Peel Hunt LLP 
Barclays Bank PLC 
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 
UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras 
Lines are open 9.00am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday 
excluding public holidays 
Overseas telephone: +44 20 8639 3399 
Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk 
FINANCIAL CALENDAR AND ADVISORS 
Designed and produced by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk
This Report has been printed on Heaven 42, a paper produced using wood fibre from 
fully sustainable forests with FSC
®
 certification. All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine 
Free and the manufacturing mill holds the ISO14001 and the EMAS accreditations for 
environmental management.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using vegetable inks and their Alcofree and Pureprint 
environmental printing technology. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both 
manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management 
System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
