 2015
 On when it counts
 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts Dialight delivers the most energy 
efficient, reliable LED lighting 
solutions available.
Leading the way in the energy efficient LED lighting 
revolution for industrial and hazardous applications. 
Continuing development of LED lighting solutions that 
enable our customers to lower their energy usage and 
carbon dioxide emissions, reduce maintenance 
requirements and improve safety while integrating as 
a key information node within their operations.
Strategic report
01 Highlights
02 Overview
04 Dialight at a glance
05 Chairman’s statement 
06 Our markets
08 Our business model
10 Group Chief Executive’s statement
12 Strategic framework
13 Our strategy
16 Key performance indicators
18 Financial review 
22 Principal risks and uncertainties
25 Case study: City of Tulsa water plant
26 Our people
Corporate governance
28  Chairman’s overview and 
Board of Directors
30  Corporate governance 
and Directors’ report
35  Report of the Nominations Committee
37  Report of the Audit Committee
41  Other statutory disclosures
44  Responsibility statement
45  Remuneration Committee report
Financial statements
65  Independent auditors’ report
68  Consolidated income statement
69  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
70  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
71  Consolidated statement 
of total financial position
72  Consolidated statement of cash flows
73  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
102  Company balance sheet
103  Notes to the Company 
financial statements
112  Five -year summar y
IBC  Directory and shareholder information
Contents
On when it counts
  
For more information visit us online at 
www.dialight.com Financial headlines
• Lighting revenue up 3%; Signals and Components 
revenue 5% lower.
• Underlying operating profit fell to £6.1m. 
• Non-underlying costs of £9.5m.
• Revised operating segments with a focus on growth 
opportunities within Lighting and Obstruction.
• The Group remains cash generative and improved 
its working capital position in the year.
• The Board is not proposing a final dividend for 2015.
Strategic and operational headlines
• A new strategy set out to deliver sustainable, profitable 
growth with a three-year plan to:
• Build scalable and efficient operations.
• Develop common production platforms.
• Lead the market in products and technology.
• Advance our sales approach through strategic 
global accounts.
• Grow into new sectors and geographies.
• Further plans in place to reduce costs including operational 
restructuring and a move to platform product design.
 
For more information see the Finance review on page 18
*  Results for 2011 and 2012 exclude the results of operations classified 
as discontinued. Underlying gross profit and underlying operating profit are 
defined on page 16 and can be found on the Income statement on page 68.
Revenue* £’m
£161.4m
19.6
15.5
Underlying gross profit* £’m
£56.2m
Underlying operating profit* £’m
£6.1m
6.1
18.1
14.5
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
Financial highlights
47.7
40.3
56.2
60.6
49.6
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
115.1
102.5
161.4
159.8
131.2
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 01 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 02
Strategic report
Overview
Leadership in LED 
lighting technology
Dialight’s strategy
Rebuild 
1
  
Rebuild scalable and 
efficient operations
Focus on growth business, improving 
operational efficiency to provide a solid 
foundation for future growth.
2  
Develop common 
production platforms
Clearly defined product roadmap to 
maintain technology lead and support 
new sectors and geographic expansion.
Lead
3  
Lead the market in 
products and technology
Market-leading LED lighting for industrial 
applications in demanding operating 
environments where robust lighting 
systems are mission critical.
4  
Advance our sales 
approach through strategic 
global accounts and 
automation partnerships
Enhance the sophistication of our sales 
approach, moving beyond the factory sell 
into the corporate sell, leveraging ten years 
of proven value and expertise.
Grow
5  
Grow into new sectors 
and geographies
Grow market share in current sectors and 
expand into sectors where Dialight can 
deliver differentiated solutions. Maintain 
a strong focus on North America while 
diversifying into regions where our sector 
advantage is strong.
 
For more information on our strategy see page 12 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 03
Dialight remains 
highly differentiated
Energy 
efficient
Highest lumen/watt 
• Saves electrical cost
• Increased light 
output to improve 
safety
Most 
reliable
Ten-year warranty 
• Proven in the 
toughest conditions
• Virtually eliminates 
maintenance cost
Connected 
sensors
Controls and sensors 
• Maximise lifetime 
and savings
• Integrated with 
independent 
building 
management 
systems
LED by 
design
Pure LED focus 
• Design and sales 
channels wholly 
focused on industrial 
markets that rely 
on robust and cost 
efficient lighting
Proven model
Ten years’ 
market experience
• Our products and 
their benefits 
are proven
• More resilient and 
more efficient
Vigilant
®
 LED High Bay 
(60,000 lumens)
Vigilant
®
 H2 LED High Bay 
(25,250 lumens)
Differentiated technology
Key new products
Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
 
For more information on our business model see page 8 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 04
Strategic report
Dialight at a glance
Our segments
Lighting is the growth  
driver for our business
Revenue £’m Gross profit £’m Segmental operating profit £’m
  L i gh t in g  
£120.6m
  Signals and 
Components  
£40.8m
  L i gh t in g  
£6.8m
  Signals and 
Components  
£2.7m
  L i gh t in g  
£48.3m
  Signals and 
Components  
£7.9m
Lighting 
The Lighting segment, which is comprised 
of Dialight’s Lighting and Obstruction 
businesses, is focused on providing energy 
efficient lighting solutions through the use 
of high-brightness LEDs and connected 
technologies. It represented 75% of the 
Group’s revenue in 2015 and 71% of the 
Group’s segmental operating profit.
The Lighting business provides lighting 
products to customers operating in 
industrial sectors, which include steel 
foundries, pulp and paper mills, automotive 
manufacturers, utility and waste water plants 
and food and beverage processing plants. 
The business also provides specialist 
lighting products for hazardous industrial 
sites, including those in the oil and gas and 
mining sectors.
A high proportion of Lighting sales, 
particularly in the US, are through major 
distribution networks. The business 
also sells directly to major international 
customers and has strategic links with 
key automation partners.
The Obstruction business provides  
LED lighting used for aircraft collision 
avoidance in the onshore telecom and 
broadcast tower market and offshore wind 
turbine markets. Revenue is project based 
and the timing of orders in this business 
can be uneven and difficult to predict.
Overall 71% of the Lighting division’s 
revenue was generated in North America 
in 2015, with 19% in Europe and the 
Middle East, and 10% in Asia and Australia.
Signals and Components
The Signals and Components division 
consists of Dialight’s Traffic, Transportation 
and Components businesses. In Traffic 
and Transportation, Dialight provides LED 
lighting for signals, while the Components 
businesses include sales primarily to 
electronics original equipment manufacturers 
("OEMs") for status indication and components 
for automotive and niche industrial application.
In 2015, the division represented 25%  
of the Group’s revenue in 2015 and 29%  
of the Group’s segmental operating profit. 
These businesses all operate in high 
volume and competitive markets where 
products are less differentiated. As a result, 
revenues across these businesses are 
declining and the Group manages these 
businesses for value.
 
For more information see the Finance review on page 18 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 05
Chairman’s statement
Wayne Edmunds
Dialight has developed market-leading 
products with a brand that benefits from 
a strong reputation for innovation, 
advanced technology and long-term 
customer relationships. 
2015 has been a challenging year for Dialight with difficult market 
conditions and over-reliance on the upstream oil and gas sector which 
led to a significant slowdown in revenue growth.
There have been a number of operational issues identified and good 
progress has been made to resolve them. We have a strong new 
management team in place to lead Dialight through its next stage of 
development, led by Michael Sutsko, who was appointed Group Chief 
Executive in June 2015, and Fariyal Khanbabi, our Group Finance 
Director. Together they have put in place a new strategy focused on 
rebuilding the Group’s operations, product development, sales strategy 
and delivering sustainable profitable growth. 
Board composition
In order to support our Executive team in running the day-to-day 
business operations of the Group, we have brought together an 
international Board of Directors with extensive experience of running 
public companies in a global environment. We believe that by using 
our wealth of experience to help monitor and guide the path of the 
management, Dialight will grow profitably for the foreseeable future.
Governance
We believe that good corporate governance is the key to long-term 
business success.
The Board is mindful of the need to protect and promote the interests 
of the Company’s shareholders. We believe that the Board and its 
Committees provide the appropriate corporate governance balance.
 
For more information on corporate governance see page 28
Outlook
We continue to pursue our overall growth strategy of designing 
market-leading products. The Group remains focused on executing 
our strategy without compromising our brand, despite the more 
challenging macroeconomic environment and will deliver long-term 
value to our shareholders. 
Wayne Edmunds, Chairman
8 March 2016
Focused on the long term
“ We continue to pursue our 
overall growth strategy of 
focusing on the design of 
market‑leading products.” Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 06
Our markets
Diversification expands 
our growth potential
Market review
Total addressable lighting market
The total global lighting market is estimated to be worth £50 billion 
revenue per annum (source: Freedonia global estimate). Within this, 
heavy industrial lighting, where Dialight is focused, accounts for 7% 
or £3.5 billion revenue per annum. Assuming a 20-year retro-fit cycle, 
the Group estimates that the total available market for industrial and 
hazardous LED lighting products is around £70 billion – £100 billion. 
(This excludes markets that Dialight does not currently sell into such 
as China, Russia, India and Africa.) 
 f Dialight estimates that its share  
of the industrial LED market is 34%, 
significantly ahead of its nearest 
competitor, which has a 13% share.
 f Dialight has delivered compound annual 
Lighting revenue growth of 29% over 
five years.
Market growth
The global lighting market is undergoing rapid transformation driven by 
growing adoption of LED technology and the increasing popularity of 
connected lighting systems. Historically growth in the total lighting market 
has tracked global GDP growth, running at about 3% CAGR from 2010 to 
2014 (source: BCG). In the developed world, this growth can be attributed to 
economic expansion and the number of households. Rapidly developing 
economies such as China and Latin America accounted for 70% 
lighting industry growth over the last five years.
Penetration of LED lighting is in the low single digits thus enabling 
strong potential for growth for some years to come, far above the growth 
of the total lighting market. 
LED technology
The clear advantages of LED technology are driving its market share 
gains, especially with an increasing focus on total cost of ownership:
• Low energy consumption: LED lighting is four to five times more 
energy efficient than conventional technologies. In July 2015, the 
US Department of Energy published a report that stated that  if all 
US lighting installations in 2014 were replaced overnight with the 
best LED technologies available, the US would save 4,896 trillion Btu 
of energy. 
• Long lifetime: LED lighting lasts up to 15 years, which is four times 
the lifespan of CFL lighting and ten times the lifespan of 
incandescent lighting. 
• Enhanced versatility: LED lighting is smaller and more durable and 
comes in more colours than traditional lighting. Connected lighting 
systems are also growing in popularity. 
 f Dialight’s products have the most energy 
efficient power supply technology on the 
market and come with a market-leading 
ten-year warranty.
Regulation
The push for energy efficiency has led to regulations aimed at phasing 
out older, less efficient lighting technologies. Incandescent lights have 
been banned in most countries, with China and Brazil to come, and the 
EU has recently passed regulations to phase out halogen by 2018 
with the US and China expected to follow suit.
US regulation stipulates that lighting in most buildings must be 
controlled automatically to adjust light usage according to the time of 
day and occupancy.
 f Dialight is investing in developing  
its system controls and connectivity, 
working alongside strategic partners  
in automation. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 07
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Mining
Dialight’s products are built to 
withstand extensive shock and 
vibration and their reliability is of 
paramount importance to customers 
focused on safety in this market.
6%
Heavy 
industrial
Dialight’s fixtures are 
completely sealed against 
moisture, resist damage from 
extreme vibration, contain all 
stainless steel hardware, and 
come with some of the 
highest ambient temperature 
ratings in the industry. They are 
therefore well suited for use 
across heavy industrial 
producers including steel 
foundries, pulp and paper 
mills and automotive 
manufacturers operating 
around the clock.
41%
Oil and gas
Dialight makes ultra-rugged, 
corrosion-resistant lighting designed 
to stand up to high vibration and high 
temperatures in the heavily regulated 
oil and gas industry.
22%
Power 
generation
The heavily regulated 
nuclear, fossil and 
renewables power industry 
requires strong and low 
maintenance products with 
demanding certifications. 
Dialight’s durable lighting 
eliminates constant 
maintenance burdens  
while drastically reducing 
energy consumption.
11%
Obstruction
Dialight has been the pioneer and 
worldwide leader in designing and 
manufacturing reliable and efficient 
LED obstruction lights. Our 
maintenance-free systems drastically 
reduce cost of ownership on towers, 
stacks, turbines, cranes and buildings.
12%
Food and beverage
Dialight makes high performance and energy 
efficient lighting solutions for use in the food 
processing, agricultural, cold storage and food 
grain industry, where lighting is required 24 hours 
a day. Dialight’s products are built to withstand 
daily washdowns to keep bacteria and contaminants 
at bay, as well as the extreme temperatures required 
for sub-zero food processing. 
8%
Global 
markets
2015 Lighting revenue by market sector Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 08
Unique DNA 
for delivering 
long-term value
Dialight has maintained a leading share of its 
markets through differentiated technology 
and using the most efficient power supplies 
available, which underpin the ten-year 
warranty of its products. All Dialight products 
also benefit from temperature compensation 
technology, maximising their lifespan, and 
an optical design with custom reflectors 
to direct light where it is needed.
Our business model
Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 09
Flexible supply chain
Dialight is exploring manufacturing partnerships to outsource 
the assembly part of the supply chain to gain flexibility and speed 
when bringing products to market. Dialight’s internal strengths lie 
in the products’ technology and design and not in their assembly. 
Those elements which protect the brand are owned and managed 
by Dialight, including quality, vendor liaison and product 
development. Materials research and sourcing, product 
development, engineering, production planning and control, 
quality assurance and customer service and after sales are 
all controlled in house.
Multichannel distribution model
The Group has multiple routes to market through established 
distribution networks and sells directly to the end customers. 
Sales are focused on the employees and plant managers who will 
be using and installing Dialight’s products and benefiting from 
the enhanced quality of light, ease of installation and improved 
safety. In addition, Dialight has extended its sales approach to 
target the corporate decision makers at a more senior level by 
highlighting the sustainability of our products through increased 
energy efficiency and lower total cost of ownership.
Sustainable, reliable and efficient 
products
Dialight continually develops its products to reduce maintenance, 
improve safety, ease disposal and be more environmentally friendly. 
The Group uses its technological expertise in thermal management, 
optics and electronic circuitry to improve its existing products, 
bringing further efficiencies, cost improvements and improved 
product design.
 
Read more about sustainability on page 42
Large niche markets
The Group addresses the needs of customers in heavy industry 
and hazardous locations where lighting is seen as mission 
critical. Dialight is focused on niche markets where the Group 
is differentiated through its bespoke products that are designed 
to meet the certifications and specific requirements of each 
individual customer. These are markets with significant barriers 
to entry as their environments demand round the clock, all year 
long, reliable and efficient lighting solutions. Dialight is engaging 
in a focused plan of geographical growth in established and 
developing markets to ensure its long-term business sustainability.
Dedicated and experienced management
The Group is run by a passionate and experienced senior 
management team with a focus on execution which we believe 
can only be achieved by a pure play LED lighting company. The 
highly dedicated management team comprises established 
Dialight incumbents together with new management who have a 
long and successful history of working in the industrial sector. 
The management team is led by Michael Sutsko, who joined 
in June 2015 with more than 25 years of experience and a 
deep understanding of global markets.
Leading technology team
Dialight’s technology team has a proven track record of 
developing conceptual visions into market-leading products. 
The technology team is at the forefront of the industry in terms 
of its ability to interpret market trends. This provides customers 
with a broad range that addresses key market verticals. Customers 
increasingly demand more intelligent controls and connected 
lighting systems that are integrated into their broader operations. 
Dialight delivers the most reliable LED lighting solutions in our 
markets. Our products are the most energy efficient available and 
are supported by our ten-year warranty, reducing the total cost 
of ownership for our customers.
Bespoke technology
Expert people
Efficient operations Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 10
Group Chief Executive’s statement
Michael Sutsko
This has been a difficult year for the Group 
from a financial, strategic and operational 
perspective. In a challenging time for the 
industry, Dialight has been able to maintain 
its market share.
I joined Dialight in June 2015 believing the Company to have 
differentiated technology and a strong commercial capability to 
deliver value in a market with sizeable potential. These beliefs were 
confirmed as I engaged with the talented people of Dialight around 
the globe.
Revenue grew by 1% to £161.4m (2014: £159.8m), with 3% growth 
in Lighting offset by a 5% decline in the Signals and Components 
segment. On a constant currency basis Lighting revenue was flat year 
on year. The pace of Lighting revenue growth in the year slowed 
compared to the prior year. This was partly as a result of weakness in 
the upstream oil and gas sector. The automotive sector also declined 
from 20% of revenue in 2014 to 6% in 2015, as a result of delays in 
placing orders from some of our strategic accounts. This highlighted 
the need for Dialight to diversify its sector exposure. The sales force 
was refocused in the second half of the year to other market sectors 
and achieved strong growth in downstream oil and gas, power 
generation and pulp and paper.
Underlying EBIT decreased 66% to £6.1m (2014: £18.1m). This was 
primarily the result of the business decision to employ additional 
headcount in advance of expected growth that did not materialise. 
There were also manufacturing inefficiencies relating to material 
sourcing, shop floor planning and tooling which were compounded 
by too many product variations. These issues were addressed in the 
second half of 2015 with a 12% headcount reduction (excluding direct 
labour) undertaken in August and a number of initiatives on the 
factory floor to address the inefficiencies.
There were significant non-underlying items of £9.5m, mainly 
in relation to projects triggered by the strategic review, which are 
detailed in the Financial Review on page 18.
In October we outlined a new strategy to secure sustainable profitable 
growth and maintain our leadership in LED technology. With this 
strategy in mind we have taken a number of steps to address the key 
issues within the business:
Strategic priority 1: build scalable and efficient operations
Over the last few months we have taken action to begin to rebuild 
the business and address the operational inefficiencies that led to 
the poor financial performance in 2015. 
As a first step, we simplified the Group’s segments to focus on LED 
lighting, which includes general industrial illumination and obstruction 
products (lights attached to tall structures and used as collision 
Focus on growth opportunities
“ We are a differentiated 
technology company, well 
positioned in a market with 
sizeable potential.” Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 11
Strategic priority 4: advance our sales approach through 
strategic global accounts
As we develop and improve our products, we are also focusing on 
developing our sales channels and increasing our routes to market. In 
North America, which accounted for 71% of our Lighting revenue in 2015, 
we have established distribution networks. However, in the majority of the 
other regions where we operate, we sell directly to the end customer and 
we feel there is more value to be captured by improving our sales approach.
Currently our sales are focused on the employees and plant managers 
who will be using and installing Dialight’s products and benefiting from 
the enhanced quality of light, ease of installation and improved safety. 
However, we are extending our sales approach to target the corporate 
decision makers at a more senior level. By highlighting the sustainability 
of our products, through increased energy efficiency and lower total 
cost of ownership, we hope to expand our reach and increase the rate 
of uptake of LED lighting in our markets. 
Strategic priority 5: grow into new sectors and geographies
We are actively working to diversify our revenue streams to make the 
business less susceptible to individual market swings, such as the 
downturn in the oil and gas sector we saw this year. We remain 
focused on niche markets where we can differentiate ourselves 
through bespoke products that are designed to meet the certifications 
and specific requirements of each individual customer. However, within 
the existing sectors we serve, almost 50% of our revenue comes from 
heavy industrial and oil and gas customers. We are looking to reduce 
this exposure by growing revenue across our existing market sectors.
We are also looking to diversify our revenues geographically and 
expand into new territories. We have a development programme in 
place for sustainable expansion in our existing markets across Europe, 
the Middle East, Asia and Australia. Supporting this expansion, we are 
looking to establish technology centres internationally which will 
manage product development and certifications in each local market. 
As a result of our strategic initiative we expect restructuring costs to 
be in the region of £12m in 2016 with cumulative savings of 
approximately £12m over the next three years. 
Confident in delivering sustainable, profitable growth
We set out a new strategy to return the business to sustainable profitable 
growth. We are making progress in 2016, having refocused our sales 
strategy, established our first manufacturing partnership as well as 
securing our first automation partnership. Although the economic outlook 
remains uncertain, there are a number of initiatives underway and we are 
targeting revenue and EBIT growth in 2016. We are confident in the 
Group’s outlook over the medium to long-term.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our stakeholders 
and I would especially like to thank our employees across the business 
for their hard work in this transitional period.
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
8 March 2016
avoidance measures) as these provide the growth opportunities 
to meet our profitability targets. For the reasons noted above, our 
other products in Signals and Components do not represent the 
best investment for growth and will now be managed for value.
As a next step, we are focusing on improving our cost base. 
In August 2015 we announced a 12% reduction in the Group’s 
headcount (excluding direct labour), which will deliver £3m of cost 
savings per year. We also improved the operating efficiency of our plants 
in Mexico by changing the machine layout and flexing the workforce. 
Looking ahead, Dialight needs operations that will be more responsive to 
changes in demand while also being capable of supporting an expanding 
product, geographic and customer base. We are exploring manufacturing 
partnerships to outsource the manufacture of our products. Dialight’s 
internal strengths lie in our products’ technology and design.
Strategic priority 2: develop common production platforms
To improve our supply chain processes, we are also redesigning our 
products. Previously, every part of the product being assembled was 
unique to that product. Instead, maximising our ten years’ experience 
in LED lighting design, we have developed common production 
platforms. This means that some parts of the product, such as the 
light engine, power supply and casting, are now standardised and can 
be used as the foundation for all finished products. This will enable 
a more simplified and cost-effective supply chain by reducing the 
number of sub-assembly parts held in inventory.
Strategic priority 3: lead the market in products 
and technology
Dialight has a strong track record of innovation, underpinned by our 
engineers’ experience and technical expertise, and we lead the market by 
delivering the most durable and energy efficient LED products available. 
T o ensure we continue to stay ahead of the competition, we have developed 
a product roadmap that sets out a timeframe for the introduction and 
development of new products and technologies. Successful adherence 
to the roadmap will ensure we continue to create innovative products that 
support our growth into new sectors and geographies, and we will track 
our progress against this roadmap over a three-year period. 
We’re also looking to develop more advanced technology for our 
products as customers increasingly demand automated and more 
intelligent lighting controls, as well as lighting that is connected to 
their broader operating systems. We have already secured strategic 
partnerships in this area, for example, our products are now compatible 
with Rockwell building management systems, and we are looking to 
develop further partnerships to strengthen our software and technical 
capability in this area. 
 
For more information see our strategy on page 12 Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 12
Strategic framework
Dialight is a specialist LED company focused 
on pursuing growth while protecting the 
Group’s unique brand identity and 
market-leading positioning. Lighting is at 
the heart of Dialight and will remain the core 
offering, representing 75% of revenue.
Our established technology will enable us to deliver products that 
lead the market, with revenue growth driven by successful new product 
launches, new sales channels and expansion into selected new markets. 
These growth initiatives, together with increased control over 
manufacturing and new production platforms, are designed to drive 
margin improvement and increasing cash flow in the business. Direct 
costs are expected to grow broadly in line with revenue and indirect 
costs will grow slower than overall revenue, while we will continue to 
invest in systems and logistics so that the business is scaled for growth.
Rebuild Lead Grow
We aim to improve earnings growth and returns by focusing on delivering growth ahead 
of the market and margin expansion, together with good cash flow conversion.
 
For more information see our key performance indicators on page 16
2018 objectives
Growing
+25%
annual revenue  
growth
Differentiated
+40%
gross margins
Cash generating
+80%
cash conversion
Profitable
+15%
EBIT margins Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 13
Our strategy
• Dialight is standardising the design of its products ("platform engineering"), which can 
now be used as a foundation for all its finished products. This will also enable effective 
mass customisation.
• Two product lines have been platform engineered to date, with a further 
ten lines remaining.
• By the end of 2016 we expect all product lines to have been platform engineered.
• Dialight will be focused on its growth businesses in LED lighting which includes general 
industrial illumination and obstruction products. These will be reported as the "Lighting" 
segment going forward.
• The Group’s other businesses, which include Traffic and Transport and Components, 
operate in markets where it is hard to differentiate ourselves from a growing competitor 
base. These businesses will be managed for value going forward.
• During the year a task force was sent to the Mexican manufacturing plants to resolve 
operational issues. As a result of controlled changes to the production process, there has 
been a reduction in the complexity of the manufacturing operations.
• As part of the new strategy there is an increased focus on supply chain planning, especially 
around the quality of supplies, material cost and elimination of waste.
• In 2016 the Group will trial a manufacturing partnership that can be rolled out across all 
product lines in due course. This will enable Dialight to respond more efficiently to changes 
in demand.
• As part of this move, Dialight has announced the closure and sale of its plant in the UK. 
Rebuild
Focus on growth businesses
More efficient operations to support growth
Exploring manufacturing partnerships 
Scalable products
1
Rebuild scalable 
and efficient 
operations
2
Develop 
common 
production 
platforms
Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 14
• Dialight has a strong track record in delivering complex and critical projects to its 
customers. To further strengthen our sales capability, the Dialight Difference sales 
programme was launched in 2015 to focus on strategic accounts and global partnerships.
• As well as selling to employees and plant managers who will be using and installing 
Dialight’s products, Dialight is targeting more senior decision makers, highlighting the 
benefits as part of broader company sustainability considerations, through increased energy 
efficiency and lower total cost of ownership.
• Dialight utilises the most efficient power supplies in the industry within its lighting 
products and this underpins the ten-year warranty provided. In 2015, Dialight launched its 
480V Passive Power Supply offering higher energy efficiency to outperform conventional 
switch mode power supply ("SMPS") technology in high-voltage applications.
• All Dialight products benefit from temperature compensation technology, maximising their 
lifespan, and an optical design with custom reflectors to direct light where it is needed.
• Reflecting its market-leading products, Dialight has maintained its 34% share of the heavy 
industrial LED market, ahead of its nearest competitor with a 13% share.
• In the year, Dialight launched a new battery-powered wireless occupancy sensor that can 
be placed virtually anywhere within a facility, without the need to install or move cabling. 
The sensor can be programmed to control multiple lights and groups of lights, eliminating 
the need to install a sensor on every light.
• Dialight has also introduced remote over-the-air ("OTA") upgrades for all of its obstruction 
lighting enabling software to be upgraded remotely.
• As connected lighting systems grow in popularity, Dialight is exploring strategic 
partnerships with producers of automation systems. In 2016 the Group announced a 
partnership with Rockwell Automation, with further partnerships being explored to 
strengthen Dialight’s software and technical capability in this area.
• The roadmap sets out a timeframe for the introduction and development of new products 
and technologies to ensure Dialight continues to create innovative products that will 
support future growth.
Our strategy continued
Lead
Maintain leading market share through  
differentiated technology
Enhance system controls and connectivity
Develop a three-year product roadmap 
Strengthen Dialight’s sales and distribution
Target senior corporate decision makers
3
Lead the 
market in 
products and 
technology
4
Advance our 
sales approach 
through 
strategic global 
accounts and 
automation 
partnerships Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 15
• North America continues to be the main driver of revenue growth, representing 71% of 
2015 Lighting revenue, with Western Europe and the Middle East accounting for 19%, and 
Asia and Australia accounting for 10% of Lighting revenue.
• Dialight delivered strong growth in Lighting revenue in Australia, up 34% during 2015.
• In 2015, 22% of Dialight’s Lighting revenue was from the oil and gas sector, which was 
impacted by the sharp decline in the oil price. 
• The Group intends to reduce this exposure by diversifying its revenue share across its 
existing market sectors, which are outlined on page 7.
• Dialight is also exploring selling to new market sectors including institutional customers, 
portable industrials and transport (rail, tunnels and ports). These are all niche markets 
where Dialight can continue to differentiate itself. 
• There is a significant addressable market for industrial and hazardous LED lighting 
of £70 billion – £100 billion, which is still less than 2% penetrated. 
• We have a development programme in place, as outlined below, for sustainable expansion 
into strategic territories.
• To improve Dialight’s market positioning in new territories, the Group plans to establish 
technology centres across the globe that will manage product development and 
certifications for each new market.
Grow
Strong Lighting revenue growth in Australia
Reducing the Group’s exposure to major industrial sectors
Expanding into new territories
Establish international technology centres
5
Grow into new 
sectors and 
geographies 50.8
40.0
38.0
30.0
116.9
83.0
63.8
44.2
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 16
Strategic report
Key performance indicators
The Company assessed its performance against a wide range of measures. These key 
performance indicators ("KPIs") help management measure progress against the 
Company’s core strategies. The Board believes it is important to ensure alignment between 
Executive management’s strategic focus and the long-term interests of the shareholders.
Revenue* £’m
£161.4m
New product introduction
32 (2014: 13)
Platform conversion
17% (2014: 0%)
Underlying gross profit* £’m
£56.2m
Underlying EBIT* £’m
£6.1m
120.6 48.3
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
Description
This measures the success of the 
Dialight brand.
Description
The number of new products 
introduced to the market.
Description
This is the measure of the ability to generate 
profitable sales. Gross profit is revenue less the 
costs of materials, labour, production and freight 
that are directly attributable to a segment.
Underlying gross profit is the gross 
profit relating to the performance of the 
underlying business.
Description
The proportion of products  re-engineered 
through platform re-design.
Description 
This is a key measure used by investors 
to assess the underlying performance 
of the Company.
Underlying EBIT is the EBIT relating to the 
performance of the underlying business.
2 5 3 1 4
1 3 2 4 5
Financial
Operational
40.8 7.9
42.9 9.8
48.2 9.6
51.3 9.7
58.3 10.3
Measuring our progress
19.6
15.5
6.1
18.1
14.5
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
1 3 2 4 5 1 3 2 4 5
*  Results for 2011 and 2012 exclude the results 
of operations classified as discontinued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 17
Cash conversion %
145%
62
87
145
55
55
’12
’11
’15
’14
’13
Description
This measures the ability to turn profits into cash flow. It is 
adjusted operating cash flow divided by adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as underlying operating profit 
("EBIT") excluding depreciation and amortisation. Adjusted 
operating cash flow is defined as adjusted EBITDA plus 
working capital movements.
Non-financial measures have a useful role alongside financial measures 
to inform decision making and to evaluate Group performance. Dialight’s 
reporting in these areas will continue to be developed in the future. 
The Company believes that the KPIs set out above more effectively measure 
progress against the evolved core strategies. 
 
 For more information on the Group’s performance during the year see the 
Financial review on page 18
Non-financial
Key
 
Lighting
 
Signals and Components
Link to strategy
1
 
 
 Rebuild scalable and 
efficient operations
2
   
Develop common  
production platforms
3
 
 
 Lead the market in products 
and technology
4
  
 Advance our sales 
approach through strategic 
global accounts and 
automation partnerships
5
 
 
 Grow into new sectors  
and geographies
1 3 2 4 5
Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 18
Financial review
The business experienced a downturn in 
profitability due to operational inefficiencies 
and excess costs in the first half of 2015. 
Income statement
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Revenue 161.4 159.8
Gross profit 56.2 60.6
Gross profit % 35% 38%
Overheads (50.1) (42.5)
Underlying EBIT 6.1 18.1
Non-underlying items (9.5) (2.3)
Finance expense (0.5) (0.3)
(Loss)/profit before tax (3.9) 15.5
Statutory basic EPS (6.4p) 29.4p
The Group’s cost base has grown disproportionately to revenue 
with the main driver being the manufacturing plant in Mexico and 
16 additional sales heads hired in the first half of 2015. This was 
compounded by a reduction in Lighting revenue growth primarily in 
the oil and gas sector and delayed orders from strategic accounts. 
A 12% headcount reduction was undertaken in August 2015 to address 
the excess costs. This will deliver savings of £3m in 2016. In addition, 
a number of projects to streamline the production processes have 
commenced and results will be seen over the next 18-month period.
As part of the Group’s Strategic Review in the year, the operating 
segments have been revised (see note 4 to the financial statements). 
The Group’s focus is on the growth opportunities within its Lighting 
and Obstruction businesses; these will be reported as one segment, 
named Lighting. The Group’s Traffic, Vehicle and Components 
divisions will be reported under one segment named Signals and 
Components and will be managed for value. 
The strategic review also included a product roadmap which will 
result in a restructuring of the Group’s manufacturing footprint. 
The restructuring is expected to reduce excess capacity and 
overheads in order to improve the cost structure going forward. 
A transitional year focusing on 
rebuilding for the future
“ We have taken swift and 
decisive action to rebuild a cost 
efficient, scalable operating 
platform to deliver long‑ term 
shareholder value.” Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 19
Overheads have increased by £6.1m compared to 2015 partly due 
to headcount additions in the first half of 2015. This was addressed 
as part of the headcount reduction announced in August 2015 and 
the full benefit of these savings will be seen in 2016. The other major 
contributor relates to a more stringent approach to the capitalisation 
of development costs. In 2014 there was a net benefit of £1.1m to 
the income statement, compared to a charge of £0.6m in 2015.
Overall profit in the Lighting segment was significantly behind 2014 
due to decreased gross margins and additional overheads on lower 
revenue growth.
Signals and Components
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Revenue 40.8 42.9
Gross profit 7.9 9.8
Gross profit % 19% 23%
Overheads 5.2 4.3
Underlying operating profit 2.7 5.5
These are high volume businesses that operate within highly 
competitive markets. There is significant competition from low 
cost producers and margins continue to be squeezed. Revenue 
reduced by 5% compared to 2014 with a gross margin reduction 
to 19%. This was partly due to production inefficiencies but also 
price erosion from increased competition.
Central overheads are not allocated to these segments. In 2015 they 
amounted to £3.4m, an increase of £0.6m from 2014.
Non-underlying costs
From time to time, the Group incurs costs and earns income that 
is non-recurring in nature or that is otherwise considered to not 
be reflective of the underlying performance of the business. In the 
assessment of performance of the components of the Group, 
management examines underlying performance, which removes 
the impact of non-underlying costs and income. 
The table below presents the components of non-underlying profit 
or loss recorded within cost of sales and administrative expenses:
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Inventory costs (6.0) (2.8)
Intangible asset write-down (1.0) (1.3)
Employee severance and restructuring costs (1.8) (0.7)
Executive Director replacement costs (0.8) (0.4)
Settlement of legal case 0.5 —
Other (0.4) (0.2)
Contingent consideration — 3.1
Non-underlying costs recorded in cost of  
sales and administrative expenses (9.5) (2.3)
The primary components of the restructuring include the planned 
outsourcing of certain manufacturing processes and facility consolidation. 
The Group has incurred £9.5m of costs in 2015 and expects to incur 
further non-underlying costs in 2016 due to the restructuring 
programme, which includes the closure of the UK plant.
Group revenues grew 1% compared to the previous year but declined 
by 2% on a constant currency basis. The underlying operating profit 
was 66% below last year with the Group achieving an underlying 
operating profit of £6.1m for 2015 (72% below on a constant currency 
basis). 
The performance of each business segment is reviewed individually 
below. Allocation of overheads in each segment is based on directly 
attributed costs plus allocation based on segmental revenue.
Lighting
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Revenue 120.6 116.9
Gross profit 48.3 50.8
Gross profit % 40% 43%
Overheads 41.5 35.4
Underlying operating profit 6.8 15.4
The Lighting segment represents 75% of the Group’s revenue and 
71% of the Group’s segmental result. 
Lighting growth slowed in the second and third quarters of 2015 
as a result of retrenchment in the upstream oil and gas sector. This 
vertical sector represents 22% of Lighting revenue. The sales teams 
were deployed in the second half to target the downstream oil and gas 
sector plus other vertical sectors and the Group has achieved strong 
growth in power generation and pulp and paper. The other factor 
affecting growth was the automotive sector (included within the heavy 
industrial market sector), which reduced from 20% of revenue in 2014 
to 6% in 2015 as a result of delays in placing orders from some of our 
strategic accounts. 
Due to the industrial slowdown and the effects of the low oil price, 
US revenue only grew by 3%. The European business saw a reduction 
of 13%. There was strong growth in Asia of 23% and Australia had 
growth of 34% compared to the previous year, albeit from a low base.
Gross margin decreased to 40% as a result of inefficient commodity 
management. Key raw materials were expedited due to lead times, incurring 
additional unit costs and air freight charges. A Global Commodity Director 
was hired in the fourth quarter of 2015 to address these issues 
and streamline the sales, operations and planning processes.
The Obstruction business is characterised by large contracts 
and is therefore subject to greater fluctuation. The revenue in the 
Obstruction business reduced in the year by 10% compared to 2014. 
There will be renewed focus on this business in 2016 as the existing 
Lighting sales force will also sell Obstruction products. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 20
Strategic report
Financial review continued
The contingent consideration credit relates to an agreement in the 
prior year to reduce the amount payable in relation to the acquisition 
of Airinet Inc in June 2012. 
Restructuring costs in 2016
The Group is restructuring its manufacturing footprint in order to reduce 
excess capacity and overhead. As a result, the Group has announced 
on 8 March 2016 that it will close its UK manufacturing plant and 
that it also has signed a manufacturing partnership with Sanmina. 
The non-underlying costs in 2016 relating to these and other strategic 
initiatives are expected to be around £12m, with cumulative cost 
savings of approximately £12m over the next three years.
Tax
The underlying business had a tax charge of £1.3m (2014: £6.0m) 
and a tax rate of 23% (2014: 34%). The reduction in the rate is due to 
re-claiming items where tax relief was not obtained in previous 
periods. There is a deferred tax asset generated on the losses in the 
non-underlying business as these will be recoverable against future 
profits. The rate of the tax credit on the non-underlying business was 
33.9% resulting in overall effective tax relief of 47 .5%.
Earnings per share (“EPS”)
The basic EPS for the underlying business was 13.3 pence 
(2014: 36.8 pence). The reduction was due to the excess costs 
(discussed above). The statutory EPS was a negative 6.4 pence 
(2014: 29.4 pence) due to the large non-underlying costs recognised 
in the year.
Balance sheet
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Fixed assets 16.1 15.2
Intangible assets 20.0 21.0
Net working capital 39.5 43.1
Net (debt)/cash (3.8) 0.6
Pension provision (0.1) (1.2)
Tax (current and deferred) (0.2) (4.4)
Other provisions (1.4) (1.5)
Net assets 70.1 72.8
Group net assets have decreased by £2. 7m to £70.1m (2014: £72.8m). 
The major change was the decrease in working capital of £3.6m.
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Inventories 26.9 32.4
Trade and other receivables 35.5 36.9
Trade and other payables (22.9) (26.2)
Net working capital 39.5 43.1
Non-underlying costs continued 
In the prior year, a detailed review of the risk of inventory 
obsolescence was initiated. The review identified that the pace 
of product change has increased in the Lighting and Obstruction 
businesses with the introduction of control based Lighting and 
the new Vigilant range. The Board concluded that a strict ageing 
override should be added in addition to the existing usage formula. 
As a result the Group incurred a one-off charge of £2.8m. 
Following on from the change of provisioning policy in the prior year, 
there has been a strong focus on tightening the internal controls and 
improving the procedures around inventory. A full inventory count was 
carried out at the key manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Roxboro, 
detailed inventory usability analysis was prepared and obsolete stock 
was disposed of. Inventory procurement was enhanced with the 
appointment of a Global Commodity Director and inventory control 
was improved with the appointment of a new Finance Director for 
North America. The impact of this was that certain non-recurring 
costs including stock losses and procurement errors were identified. 
In the Strategic Review on 27 October 2015, it was announced that the 
Group is embarking on a programme of product platform re-engineering 
and a trial of outsourced manufacturing. This will transform the 
production process and will reduce the requirement to hold multiple 
variations of components and accelerate obsolescence on some 
existing materials. The existing review was broadened to encompass 
the impact on inventory of these new factors. The outcome of the 
review is that total costs of £6.0m were identified and the Directors 
are of the opinion that in order to reflect the true performance of the 
business that these costs be treated as non-underlying costs.
The Strategic Review also triggered a review of the useful lives of 
existing capitalised development and patent costs. This resulted in an 
acceleration in the amortisation of capitalised cost and the write-off 
of certain projects totalling £1.0m. In the prior year, intangible assets of 
£0.8m relating to the Airinet business were written down in full as they 
were considered to have no future economic benefits. Other intangible 
assets of £0.5m were also written off in the prior year as their carrying 
value was judged to be impaired. 
In order to manage the cost base, the Group announced a formal 
headcount reduction programme on 7 August 2015. This was in addition 
to £0.8m of severance costs incurred in the first half. The total impact 
was a charge of £1.8m for the year. In the prior year, the Group 
incurred redundancy and termination costs mainly relating to US 
and European operations and the closure of its Japanese operation. 
The Group incurred significant costs in the recruitment of a new CEO and 
the incremental costs of an interim CEO. In order to present a more accurate 
reflection of the underlying business costs, the excess costs over and above 
those relating to one CEO have been classified as non-underlying.
The Group received a net settlement of £0.5m in relation to a claim 
against a former employee. The costs are not in the normal course of 
business and have been classified as non-underlying. Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 21
The decrease in working capital was driven mainly by a reduction 
in inventory partly due to the write-offs but also as a result of more 
focused commodity management. There has also been a very strong 
focus on account receivables collection which has significantly 
improved the Group’s cash position.
The Group’s defined benefit schemes (which are closed to new entrants) 
had a deficit of £0.1m at the balance sheet date compared to a deficit of 
£1.2m at 31 December 2014. The decrease in the deficit of £1.1m in the 
year is mainly due to a change in the discount rate used to value the assets.
The Group has a four-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility with HSBC Bank plc. Under the terms of the facility, the 
Group has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further facilities may 
be available under the current terms. At the balance sheet date, £9.5m 
was drawn on the facility. The Group is operating with significant 
headroom against its covenant requirements.
Cash flow
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Adjusted EBITDA 12.0 22.9
Adjusted operating cash flow
1
17.4 12.6
Cash conversion
2
145% 55%
Non-underlying costs (3.8) (1.9)
Tax paid (3.9) (3.1)
Net financing payments (0.4) (0.2)
Capital expenditure (5.8) (7.2)
Free operating cash flow 3.5 0.2
1  Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as adjusted EBITDA plus/minus 
movements in working capital.
2  Cash conversion is defined as adjusted operating cash flow divided by adjusted EBITDA.
The Group’s net cash position decreased by £4.4m in the year. Cash 
generated from operations increased by £0.1m to £8.7m (2014: £8.6m). 
This was utilised to fund capital expenditure of £5.8m (2014: £7 .2m), 
of which £2.5m was spent on new product development. In addition 
there were tax payments of £3.9m (2014: £3.1m) and dividend 
payments of £3.2m (2014: £4.8m).
Banking
The Group has its banking relationships with HSBC Bank plc, 
Barclays Bank plc and Wells Fargo. The Group had utilised £9.5m 
of its facility at 31 December 2015, (see note 13).
Capital management and dividend
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain 
investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. 
As at 31 December 2015 this totalled £70.1m (2014: £72.8m).
The Board is not proposing any final dividend payment for 2015 
(2014: £3.2m). This was the only change in the Group’s approach 
to capital management during the year.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the 
Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group 
over a longer period than the twelve months required by the 
"going concern" provision. The Board conducted this review for 
a period of three years as it is co-terminus with the period of the 
Group’s recently completed strategic review. 
The Strategic report section on pages 2 to 17 sets out details of 
the Group’s financial performance, capital management, business 
environment and outlook. In addition, further discussion of the 
principal risks and material uncertainties affecting the Group can be 
found on pages 22 to 24. The principal risks the Group is exposed 
to include, macroeconomic conditions, compliance, liquidity, 
operational and strategic and the Group has policies for monitoring, 
managing and mitigating its exposure to these risks.
The three-year Strategic Review considers the Group’s cash flows, 
dividend cover, covenant compliance and other key financial 
ratios over the period. These metrics are subject to sensitivity 
analysis which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions 
underlying the forecast both individually and in unison. 
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully, having taken into account the current 
economic outlook. Accordingly, the Board believes that, taking 
into account the Group’s current position, and subject to the 
principal risks faced by the business, the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and to meet its liabilities as they fall due for 
the period up to 31 December 2018, being the period considered 
under the Group’s current three-year Strategic Review.
Going concern
As disclosed in the viability statement on the opposite page, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. The Directors believe that it continues to 
be appropriate to apply the going concern concept in preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts.
Outlook
In 2016 we expect to return to growth in Lighting which should offset 
any decline in Signals and Components revenue. However, the Group 
continues to have limited visibility over revenue growth and is still 
subject to challenging macroeconomic conditions. There will be further 
non-underlying costs of approximately £12m reflecting the impact of 
the restructuring programme in 2016. We expect restructuring and cost 
savings initiatives to deliver cumulative savings of approximately £12m over 
the next three years. The Group remains cash generative which will support 
further investment for growth in the business to 2018 and beyond.
Fariyal Khanbabi, Group Finance Director
8 March 2016 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 22
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risks Description Mitigating actions
Strategic risk
Growth strategy Dialight’s long-term growth is dependent on making 
strategic moves into new territories, channels and 
products. The wrong strategy or poor implementation 
could put future growth at risk.
The Board has approved well-structured growth plans 
and ensured they are adequately resourced.
The Board regularly challenges the strategic plans to 
ensure downside risks are mitigated.
The Board closely monitors the progress against the 
strategic plan, redirecting strategy or implementation 
efforts where necessary.
Competitive 
environment
The LED lighting market is in the early stages 
of adoption and is characterised by constant and 
fast paced technological change, rapid product 
obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, 
short product life-cycles and fluctuations in product 
supply and demand.
Senior management monitors competitor movements 
and ensures Dialight hires and retains top staff to stay 
ahead of the competition in each area, including:
• engineering - ensuring that we stay ahead of future 
design and customer trends;
• supply chain - negotiating and building strong 
relationships with current and future suppliers; and
• sales team - nurturing strong relationships with 
key customers.
The Board is responsible for identifying the 
nature and extent of the risks the Group has 
to manage in order to successfully pursue its 
growth strategy and generate shareholder 
value over the long term. 
The Board uses a risk framework which is designed to support 
the process for identifying, evaluating and managing both financial 
and non-financial risk. The Group has an Executive Risk Committee 
chaired by the Group Finance Director. The Committee meets four 
times per year and provides updates to the Audit Committee 
twice a year.
The Group has identified the following key risks. This is not an 
exhaustive list but rather a list of the most material risks facing the 
Group. The impact of these risks, individually or collectively, could 
potentially affect the ability of the Group to operate profitably and 
generate positive cash flows in the medium to long term. As a result 
these risks are actively monitored and managed, as detailed below.
 
For more information see our corporate governance on page 28
 
For more information see our report of the Audit Committee on page 40
Managing our 
risks effectively
Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 23
Risks Description Mitigating actions
Changes in 
customer 
preferences 
and trends
Future success depends on Dialight’s ability to shape, 
predict and respond to market trends on both 
products and channels. Failure to do so risks surplus 
inventories, missed sales opportunities and reducing 
brand credibility with customers.
The Engineering, Marketing and Sales teams have a 
structured approach to monitoring trends internally 
and externally and use the feedback to develop each 
new product introduction and develop a cohesive 
product roadmap.
Sales teams monitor customer and channel preferences.
Marketing team ensures the brand is aligned to the 
relevant market place.
Operational risks
Key personnel Dialight needs to attract and retain the best people 
in each area.
HR policies and management culture are reviewed to 
ensure they are effective in keeping Dialight an 
attractive place to work.
Bonuses and incentive plans are reviewed regularly to 
ensure they remain competitive with the industry.
Production 
capacity
As customer demand changes we must be able to 
adjust production capacity to meet demand.
Dialight has a dedicated supply chain and quality 
assurance team that helps build strong relationships 
with suppliers and manages those suppliers tightly to 
meet production deadlines.
There is an ongoing review of key suppliers of critical 
components to ensure they are not sole sourced.
IT systems Critical data losses or delays in operations could occur 
if Dialight’s IT systems are not robust against power 
outages, computer viruses, security breaches and 
user errors.
Senior management reviews the IT strategy and 
operations plan regularly to ensure IT systems 
continue to be appropriate for the size and complexity 
of the business.
In addition, Dialight maintains a disaster recovery plan.
Programme risk Interruption or reduced performance during 
implementation of the operational transformation 
programme would impact current operations. 
If the scope of transformation reduced, future 
development plans of the business would be 
put at risk.
Senior management have put in place a strong 
programme management team linking project delivery 
teams to key staff in the Dialight business.
A clear programme structure, planning processes, 
reporting framework and a communication plan have 
been put in place and are regularly monitored.
Senior management is prepared to enact decisions and 
actions quickly as required to ensure the programme is 
implemented successfully.  Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 24
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risks Description Mitigating actions
Compliance risks
Compliance with 
laws and 
regulations
Changes in law and regulations could result in Dialight 
being non-compliant or incurring costs to be compliant.
Senior Executives in each area monitor regulatory 
requirements in their area.
Financial risks
Exchange rate 
fluctuations
The majority of raw materials are purchased in 
US Dollars and sold in local currencies. Adverse 
movements in foreign exchange rates would 
impact revenue growth reported in Sterling,  
as well as gross margins.
The Board has approved a hedging strategy to 
minimise the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
Funding Dialight is dependent on its ability to service its  
debts and to provide sufficient capital to finance 
its growth strategy.
Dialight manages its capital to safeguard its ability 
to continue as a going concern, optimise its capital 
structure and provide sufficient liquidity to support 
its operations and its strategic plans.
Economic 
downturn and 
international 
market risk
Economic downturns in countries where Dialight sells 
products may reduce sales and increase inventory.
Changes in international trade laws, transportation 
costs or local government instability could all 
impact financial results.
Economic environment and international market risks 
are regularly reviewed by senior management, with 
appropriate action taken as required.
Reputational risks
Reputation 
of brand
If Dialight’s products and corporate profile fail to retain 
the differentiating character, quality and values, brand 
equity could be reduced and sales impacted.
Brand quality is placed at the core of everything 
the business does.
This ensures close management by all areas of the 
business to retain the reputation of the quality of 
the products. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 25
Case study: City of T ulsa water plant
Products: Dialight’s LED StreetSense streetlights and Vigilant High Bays,  
Low Bays, Flood Lights and Area Lights
The challenge
Employees at the A.B. Jewell Water Treatment Plant in Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, were struggling to maintain its 350 lighting fixtures, 
which included metal halides, high pressure sodium and T12 
fluorescent lamps. Some of the lights were not easily accessible 
and the plant’s engineers were losing valuable time replacing 
bulbs. Additionally, the brightness and colour of the metal halide 
and high pressure sodium lights were a problem for visibility 
inside the plant, making visual inspections of the water difficult 
and unreliable. 
The solution
A.B. Jewell staff selected Dialight’s LED StreetSense streetlights 
and Vigilant High Bays, Low Bays, Flood Lights and Area Lights 
to replace all lighting in the plant. Due to the difference in 
brightness, they replaced 350 existing lights with 259 Dialight 
lights, reducing lighting maintenance costs by $10,000 per year. 
The change also lowered their annual energy consumption by 
447 ,000 kWh, equating to $22,300 in annual energy savings, 
while substantially improving the brightness and quality of light 
in and around the facility.
Providing a 
clear solution
After Before
Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 26
Shared by all of our colleagues across the Group, these pillars underpin our strategy  
and vision for Dialight.
Our values
Our people
Creating a diverse community
We believe that businesses thrive from the sharing of knowledge and 
experiences. In order to make the most of the cross fertilisation of 
ideas, we employ people from a diverse range of professional and 
cultural backgrounds not only because it is the right thing to do, but 
also because it enhances our work environment and strengthens our 
ability to nurture and grow the business.
Our culture is one of openness, honesty and accountability. The Group 
is committed to treating all of its employees and job applicants equally. 
No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable 
treatment or consideration on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, 
ethnic origin, religion or belief, sex, gender reassignment, sexual 
orientation, age, marital status, civil partnership status or disability, 
nor will they be disadvantaged by any conditions of employment or 
requirements of the Company that cannot be justified as necessary 
on operational grounds.
We have a comprehensive diversity policy, which ensures that 
everyone who works at one of our workplaces is protected from direct 
and indirect discrimination, harassment or victimisation, whether 
deliberate or accidental. The Board and Executive Committee regularly 
review this policy, including consideration of the 2011 Davies Report 
recommendations regarding diversity. In addition, we commit to 
ensuring that the work environment is suitable for our employees to 
carry out their duties, with adjustments to equipment, location and 
working practices where necessary.
Our values are at 
the core of our business
Culture
We thrive on talent and 
passion. We are a great 
place for smart people 
with a passion to build 
the brand 
Collaboration
No one person or team 
can do it alone. The 
Company is larger than 
any one individual  
Respect
We are proud of what we do 
and how we treat each other. 
We have high ethical 
standards 
Customer 
focus
There is one version of 
the truth – the customer 
is our judge 
Accountability
We empower and are 
held accountable to 
deliver results 
Innovation
We lead the market through 
our groundbreaking 
technology  Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 27
Board diversity Senior management diversity Total workforce diversity
 Male  
5 – 71%
 Female  
2 – 29%
 Male  
910 – 52%
 Female  
841 – 48%
 Male  
7 – 88%
 Female  
1 – 12%
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job 
can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person. Employees who 
become disabled are provided, where practicable, with continuing 
employment under normal terms and conditions and all disabled 
persons are provided with training, career development and promotion 
where appropriate and taking into account the needs of those employees.
Involving our people in the business
We want all of our employees to be part of Dialight’s success. This 
means not only excelling in their particular role, but also taking an 
interest in and influencing outcomes across the business. We do this 
through active two-way communication, training, individual recognition 
and variable rewards linked to corporate results.
Communication
Our internal communication strategy is designed to ensure that the 
strategic framework and value creation architecture of the Board is 
well understood by all employees. We keep employees up to date on 
the medium-term plans for how we aim to achieve those goals.
The Executive Directors present the strategic plan for the year annually 
to all corporate employees and managers within the business. This is 
supported by regular communication in relation to organisational 
changes in the business. Dialight is a dynamic environment and it is 
important to ensure that the views of our employees are taken into 
account as we change and grow. This process is supported by a clear 
open door policy with our HR team and a transparent approach, where 
appropriate, in the business. All employees are encouraged to come 
forward with ideas and concerns.
An ethical business
Dialight is committed to conducting all its business in an honest 
and ethical manner.
All employees are expected to adhere to the Group’s values. We have 
set out the expected standards of behaviour and conduct that apply 
to both employees and those we carry out business with in the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct (“CBC”). This sets out guidance 
on general standards of conduct and covers corporate hospitality and 
gifts, bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, confidentiality, fraud, 
political and charitable donations, employment, health and safety, 
relationships with third parties and the environment. 
We also take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption 
through communication of our values, which encourage all of our 
employees to act professionally, fairly and with integrity in business.
Information on environmental matters, including our greenhouse 
gas emissions, is contained on page 42.
This Strategic report was signed on behalf of the Board 
by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
Fariyal Khanbabi, Group Finance Director Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 28
Chairman’s overview and Board of Directors
Wayne Edmunds 
Chairman
Appointed January 2016.
Board Committees Nominations (Chair).
Experience Wayne was Chief Executive Officer of 
Invensys plc from 2011 until 2014, having worked at 
the business since 2008 in various roles including Chief 
Financial Officer from 2009 to 2011. He joined Invensys 
from Reuters America Inc., where he was Chief Financial 
Officer, and has held several other senior finance roles in 
the technology sector including 17 years at Lucent 
Technologies. 
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee – Ashtead Group plc; 
Non-Executive Director – BBA Aviation plc; Non-Executive 
Director – MSCI Inc. 
I am pleased to present our Corporate governance report, which describes 
how the main principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) have been applied during the year, provides information 
about the composition and operation of the Board and its Committees 
and provides an overview of Dialight’s system of internal controls. 
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate 
governance and regularly meets for its scheduled Board and Committee 
meetings. We also periodically review our internal policies and processes 
against the relevant regulatory framework. As a company incorporated 
in the UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange, the principal 
corporate governance rules that apply to the Company are contained in 
the Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council ("FRC"), the 
UK Financial Conduct Authority’s (“FCA”) Listing Rules (“Listing Rules”), 
the FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTR”) and the 
Companies Act 2006 (“CA 2006”) together with other regulations. 
The balance of this section includes reports from the respective chairs 
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. As the 
Company is below the FTSE 350 some of the provisions do not apply 
to us but to maintain good governance, and in line with best practice, 
we endeavour to comply with all aspects of the Code wherever possible. 
We made significant changes to the Board during 2015, with the 
appointment of Michael Sutsko as Group Chief Executive in June 2015 
as well as David Blood as a Non-Executive Director in July 2015. 
Post the year end, I was appointed as Chairman of the Board in 
January 2016 to succeeding Bill Ronald, who announced his 
intention to step down as Chairman in July 2015. Details of the 
remuneration and fee arrangements for each of the new Board 
appointments are included in the Remuneration Committee report.
As a listed company, we are required to provide detail of our 
compliance with the Code and explain any area of non-compliance 
to allow our shareholders to make an informed judgement of the 
way in which the Company is governed. This detail is provided in 
the Corporate governance and Directors’ report as well as in the 
Remuneration Committee report on pages 45 to 64. Our remuneration 
policy, which was approved by shareholders at our 2014 Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), remains unchanged and is presented in the 
appendix to the Remuneration Committee report. 
Wayne Edmunds, Chairman
8 March 2016 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 29
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Michael Sutsko 
Group Chief Executive
Appointed June 2015.
Board Committees None.
Experience Michael joined Dialight plc from Laird plc, 
where he was President of the Performance Materials 
division. Prior to Laird, Michael held positions at General 
Electric Advanced Materials, Halma plc, Porex 
Corporation and W.L. Gore & Associates. He holds 
an MBA and a master’s in Chemical Engineering from 
Widener University and a BSc in Chemical Engineering 
from the University of Pennsylvania.
Current external appointments None.
Stephen Bird 
Senior Independent Director
Appointed January 2013. Senior Independent Director 
since February 2013.
Board Committees Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration. 
Experience Stephen is currently Group Chief Executive 
of The Vitec Group plc and has previous Board experience 
as a Non-Executive Director of Umeco plc. Prior to joining 
Vitec, Stephen was Divisional Managing Director of 
Weir Oil & Gas, part of Weir Group plc, and he has held 
senior roles at Danaher Corporation, Black & Decker, 
Unipart Group, Hepworth plc and Technicolor Group.
Current external appointments Group Chief Executive 
– The Vitec Group plc.
Fariyal Khanbabi 
Group Finance Director
Appointed September 2014.
Board Committees None.
Experience From 2009 until joining Dialight in 2014 
Fariyal was Chief Financial Officer at Blue Ocean Group, 
an independent, privately owned, £4 billion revenue fuel 
trading and distribution business. She has over ten 
years’ experience in senior financial positions, including 
roles at NYSE and Nasdaq-listed companies.
Current external appointments None.
David Blood 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed July 2015. 
Board Committees Audit and Nominations.
Experience David is co-founder and Senior Partner of 
Generation Investment Management. Previously, he 
spent 18 years at Goldman Sachs including serving as 
co-CEO and CEO of Goldman Sachs Asset Management 
from 1999–2003. David received a BA from Hamilton 
College and an MBA from the Harvard Graduate School 
of Business.
Current external appointments On the Board of 
New Forests, SHINE, The Nature Conservancy, Ashden 
and Social Finance UK, as well as a Life Trustee of 
Hamilton College. 
Robert Lambourne 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed May 2010. Chair of the Audit Committee 
since 2010.
Board Committees Audit (Chair), Nominations 
and Remuneration.
Experience Robert has held Executive Director roles 
at various public companies, most recently as Finance 
Director of RMC Group plc. Robert was formerly a 
Non-Executive Director of Huttig Inc, Pace Micro 
Technology plc and Abacus Group plc as well as 
Chairman of both Penox SA and Analyst Investment 
Management plc. 
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director 
– The Tintometer Limited.
Tracey Graham 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed January 2013. Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee since February 2013. 
Board Committees Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration (Chair). 
Experience Tracey was Chief Executive of Talaris Limited 
until 2010, when she led the company’s management 
buy-out. Prior to joining Talaris, Tracey held senior roles at 
HSBC and AXA Insurance.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director 
– Acal plc; Non-Executive Director and Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee – RPS Group plc; Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee – 
Royal London Group; Non-Executive Director – Ibstock plc. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 30
Dialight leadership and governance structure
The Board structure
The Board is focused on providing entrepreneurial leadership to the 
Group, determining the best strategy for Dialight, monitoring performance 
and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are 
in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives. In addition, the 
Board ensures that the appropriate financial and business systems 
and controls are in place to safeguard shareholders’ interests and 
to maintain effective corporate governance. 
The Board operates in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association and its own written terms of reference (Schedule of Matters 
Reserved for the Board ). The Board has established a number of 
Committees as indicated in the chart above. Each Committee has its 
own terms of reference that are reviewed at least annually. A summary 
of the matters reserved for decision by the Board is set out on page 31:
Corporate governance and Directors’ report
Leadership, strategy, budgets and management
 • providing leadership and establishing the Company’s values 
and standards;
 • approving, developing and monitoring the Group’s strategy and 
objectives; and
• overseeing operations.
Structure and capital
 • changes to the Group’s capital or corporate structure; and
• changes to the Group’s management and control structure.
Financial reporting 
 • approval of financial statements;
 • approval of dividend policy;
 • approval of material changes in accounting policies; and
• approval of major capital expenditure.
Risk management and internal controls 
 • ensuring the maintenance of effective systems of internal control and 
risk management; and
• reviewing these systems of internal control and risk management.
The Dialight Board
Leadership  Setting values and standards  Risk management  Strategy and oversight  Financial reporting  Strategic investment
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee
Chairman: Robert Lambourne Chairman: Tracey Graham Chairman: Wayne Edmunds
Members: 
Stephen Bird
David Blood
Tracey Graham
Members:
Stephen Bird 
Robert Lambourne
Members:
Stephen Bird
David Blood
Tracey Graham
Robert Lambourne
Key responsibilities:
Monitoring the integrity of the financial 
statements, ensuring that an effective system 
of internal controls is maintained and monitoring 
accounting policies. The report of the Audit 
Committee can be found on pages 37 to 40.
Key responsibilities:
Determining the remuneration of the 
Chairman, the Executive Directors and the 
Company Secretary and also monitoring 
the remuneration levels of those individuals 
defined as senior management by the 
Dialight Board. The Company’s current 
remuneration policy, which was approved by 
shareholders at the AGM on 16 April 2014, 
can be found in the appendix to the 
Remuneration Committee report on pages 
57 to 64. The Remuneration Committee 
report for 2015 is set out on pages 45 to 64.
Key responsibilities:
Determining the structure, size and 
composition of the Board. This ensures that 
the correct balance of skills, experience and 
knowledge is present to assist the Company 
as it continues to grow. The Report of the 
Nominations Committee can be found on 
pages 35 to 36.
Dialight is incorporated as a public company and is registered in England with the registered number 2486024. Its shares are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered office is Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX (the “Registered Office”).
The Board of Dialight presents its Corporate governance and Directors’ report (the ”Report”) and the audited financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. The Strategic Report can be found on pages 6 to 26, which, together with the Remuneration Committee Report, 
is incorporated by reference into this Report and, accordingly, should be read as part of the Report.  Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 31
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Board membership
 • changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board;
 • adequate succession planning; and
• appointment or removal of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, 
the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
Corporate governance
 • establishing the Group’s overall governance framework;
 • determining the independence of Directors;
 • considering the views of shareholders; and
• reviewing any conflicts of interest.
Remuneration
 • determining the remuneration policy for the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior Executives;
 • determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors; and
• introducing of new share incentive plans or major changes to 
existing plans.
Other
 • approval and monitoring of the share dealing code;
 • approval and monitoring of corporate and social responsibility
 • approval of policies for political and charitable donations; and
• approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group.
The Code
Dialight is required to state how it has applied and complied with the main 
principles of the Code, a copy of which is available at www.frc.org.uk. In the 
view of the Board, Dialight has complied with the provisions of the Code 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 with the following exceptions:
i.  regarding the undertaking of a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment and evaluation of a new Director to the 
Board (B.2.1 and B.2.2), we did not use an external search consultancy 
(B.2.4) in the case of David Blood’s appointment to the Board; and
ii.  our Annual performance Bonus Plan (“APBP”) does not contain 
a “malus” provision (D.1.1).
We explain why we did not comply with the above provisions in the 
Nominations and Remuneration Committee reports, which form part 
of this section.
Leadership
Our governance structure
Following a review of the Group’s governance framework at the end 
of 2014, the Board approved an enhanced governance structure with 
effect from 1 January 2015. This was detailed in the Governance 
of Dialight document which sets out:
 • Dialight’s governance framework;
 • the terms of delegation from the Board to the Group’s management 
and governance Committees;
 • the Group’s approach to internal audit and risk management; and
• the Group’s Code of Business Conduct and supporting policies.
As a result of the unscheduled changes to the position of Group Chief 
Executive during the first half of 2015, the Group Chief Executive’s 
Committee did not become fully operational until June 2015 when 
Michael Sutsko was appointed. As part of the Executive management 
changes, the Committee was reviewed and it is now called the Executive 
Committee (“ExCo”). ExCo comprises key senior managers of the 
Group who have global accountability and responsibility for operational 
and functional roles. To manage the business more efficiently and 
effectively, certain ExCo responsibilities have been sub-delegated 
to relevant individuals of that Committee. 
The Board
The Board is accountable to the Group’s stakeholders, including its 
shareholders, for the standards of governance operated throughout 
the Group and at all operating locations. Specific responsibilities are 
delegated to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and 
these are documented in the relevant Committee terms of reference. 
The matters reserved for the Board and the Committee terms of 
reference are reviewed on an annual basis. These are available on 
the Company’s website at www.dialight.com or from the Company 
Secretary at the Company’s Registered Office.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for its decision. These include: the approval of annual and 
interim results; recommendation of dividends; convening of shareholder 
meetings; review and approval of Board appointments; approval of 
annual budgets; review of Group strategic plans; approval of larger 
capital expenditure and investment proposals; review of the overall 
system of internal control and risk management; and review of 
corporate governance arrangements.
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control and risk management in respect 
of the year ended 31 December 2015 covering all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management systems. 
The Board held nine scheduled meetings during 2015 including an 
annual strategy and planning meeting in the UK over a day and a half. 
Further details of Directors’ attendance at all scheduled meetings of 
the Board and its Committees can be found in the table on page 32. 
There are five face-to-face Board meetings scheduled to take place in 
2016. Other Board and Committee meetings including telephone 
conferences, to discuss Group strategic issues and any other matters 
arising, are held as required. 
Board agendas are prepared by the Chairman in conjunction with the 
Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. At each meeting 
the Board is provided with information on the financial and trading 
performance of the Group and its businesses, together with reports on 
operations, health and safety, markets and other relevant issues. Board 
and Committee papers are distributed to Directors in advance of Board 
and Committee meetings to facilitate informed debate at the meeting. 
If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting they have the opportunity 
to discuss any agenda items with the Chairman beforehand. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 32
Board composition
As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Group 
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and four Non-Executive 
Directors. One of the Non-Executive Directors, Stephen Bird, is also the 
Senior Independent Director. 
A number of Board changes occurred during the year. Roy Burton advised 
the Board in early 2015 of his intention to step down as Group Chief 
Executive due to ill health, and Richard Stuckes, previously a Non-Executive 
Director, replaced him as Interim Group Chief Executive with effect from 
2 February 2015. Following his decision to withdraw from the process 
to appoint a permanent Group Chief Executive, Richard Stuckes resigned 
from the Board at the end of June 2015. Michael Sutsko was appointed 
Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015 and David Blood was appointed 
a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015. 
Bill Ronald announced his decision to step down as Chairman in July 2015 
and he formally resigned on 25 January 2016, when Wayne Edmunds 
was appointed Chairman. Stephen Bird led the process for Wayne’s 
appointment in his capacity as Senior Independent Director. It was 
considered at the time of his appointment that Wayne met the 
independence criteria set out in B.1.1 of the Code. 
The Nominations Committee engaged the services of the executive 
search agencies, Odgers Berndtson (“Odgers”) and JCA Group (“JCA”), 
to assist with the recruitment of both Michael Sutsko as the new Group 
Chief Executive and Wayne Edmunds as Chairman. Both will be seeking 
election as Directors of the Company at the forthcoming AGM, as will 
David Blood. Further details of these appointments are set out in the 
Nominations Committee report on pages 35 to 36. 
Corporate governance and Directors’ report continued
Aside from David Blood, all of the Non-Executive Directors are 
considered to be independent in accordance with the Code. David Blood 
is not considered to be independent as a consequence of his connection 
with Generation Investment Management LLP, which is currently the 
Company’s largest shareholder. His appointment letter contains 
additional clauses covering confidentiality, insider dealing and conflicts 
of interest to reflect this. The Board considers David to be independent 
in character and judgement when involved in Board debates and 
discussion in which he is not conflicted. In our view, the Board has the 
appropriate balance to ensure that no individual or group dominates 
the Board’s decision making. The Board reconsidered this position as 
part of its normal year-end compliance review. 
In early 2015 there was a commercial relationship between Dialight Europe 
Limited, a Group subsidiary company, and DS Smith Packaging Limited 
(“DS Smith”), during the time when Richard Stuckes was an Executive 
Director. However, the Board agreed that this relationship was of such a level 
of materiality that it would not impact Richard Stuckes’ independence during 
his time as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
The Board has reconfirmed that the Non-Executive Directors are 
independent of management and are free from any relationship that could 
affect the exercise of their independent judgement, thus meeting the criteria 
set out in the Code, with the exception of David Blood as discussed above.
All Directors’ biographies appear on pages 28 to 29. The Dialight 
Board demonstrates a range of experience that brings independent 
judgement when evaluating the Group’s strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the future 
success of the business. The Board has considered and confirmed 
that each Non-Executive Director continues to demonstrate that 
he or she has sufficient time to devote to the Company’s business.
Board/Committee attendance – 2015 
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Bill Ronald 9/9 n/a 4/4 2/2
Roy Burton
1
0/1 n/a n/a n/a
Michael Sutsko
2
5/5 n/a n/a n/a
Fariyal Khanbabi 9/9 n/a n/a n/a
Stephen Bird 9/9 3/3 4/4 2/2
David Blood
2
4/4 1/1 n/a 1/1
Tracey Graham 9/9 3/3 4/4 2/2
Robert Lambourne
3
8/9 3/3 3/4 2/2
Richard Stuckes
4
4/5 n/a n/a n/a
1 Roy Burton stepped down as Group Chief Executive on grounds of ill health on 2 March 2015 and as a consequence was unable to attend a Board meeting in early 2015.
2  Michael Sutsko was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015 and David Blood was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015. Their attendance is 
expressed as the number of meetings out of the number each individual was eligible to attend.
3 Owing to a personal matter on the day of a Board meeting, Robert Lambourne was unable to attend the Board and Committee meetings scheduled for that day.
4  Richard Stuckes was a Non-Executive Director until 2 February 2015, when he assumed the role of Interim Group Chief Executive until his resignation from the Board on 
30 June 2015. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 33
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
All Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge the Group’s 
objectives and strategy and scrutinise the performance of management 
against it. The Chairman holds meetings on a range of matters with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present, 
whilst the Senior Independent Director does the same with other 
Non-Executive Directors as part of the Chairman’s annual performance 
appraisal as well as on other occasions as required.
Commitment
Service contracts of the Executive Directors and the letters of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection 
at the Company’s Registered Office during normal business hours on 
any weekday (except bank holidays) or at the AGM. Further details of 
these can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on page 55.
Development
All new Directors receive a full and formal tailored induction programme 
on joining the Board. This includes the provision of information on the 
Group and its products and markets, financial information and general 
advice on Directors’ duties under the CA 2006 and the Listing Rules. 
Visits to Group locations also form part of the process, as do meetings 
with key senior management.
Further training is provided as required following discussion between 
individual Directors and the Chairman. The Company provides any 
resources required for this.
Information and support
The Company Secretary, in accordance with guidance from 
the Chairman, takes the lead on ensuring that the Board and its 
Committees receive the necessary information that they require to 
operate efficiently. All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and 
regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all matters of governance and best practice. 
In addition, the Company Secretary ensures that the Directors receive 
appropriate training as necessary and updates on legal, regulatory and 
corporate governance matters through the Board reports. Both the 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the 
Board as a whole. Directors may take independent professional advice 
on any matter at the Company’s expense if they deem it necessary in 
order to carry out their responsibilities effectively. No such advice was 
taken during the year.
Responsibilities
The Board has established roles for the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director. Individually documented role 
statements are available on the Company’s website or from the Company Secretary at the Company’s Registered Office.
Chairman In addition to other matters, the Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, organising and planning Board 
meetings and communicating information to shareholders in an effective and timely manner. 
The Chairman provides advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive as and when required and 
maintains open and continual contact with the Non-Executive Directors to allow any issues to be addressed outside 
of the formal scope of the regular Board meetings.
Group Chief 
Executive
The Group Chief Executive has delegated responsibility for the management of the Group’s day-to-day operations. 
In addition, he is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Group’s strategy to deliver growth in 
shareholder value, including developing the operating plans and budgets required to deliver it. The Group Chief 
Executive is also responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains appropriate risk management and control 
mechanisms. He is assisted in his role by the ExCo, which he chairs. 
Senior 
Independent 
Director
The Senior Independent Director (“SID”) takes responsibility for meeting with the Non-Executive Directors as 
part of the Chairman’s annual performance appraisal as well as on other occasions as required. The SID will address 
any shareholder concerns where the normal channels of Group Chairman or Group Chief Executive fail to resolve 
an issue or where such contact is inappropriate.
Senior 
management 
The Executive Directors and ExCo members consider matters which arise in the ordinary course of business. 
Senior management has specific delegated powers to deal with matters that require consideration prior to the 
next scheduled Board meeting. These powers operate within prescribed limits set by the Board.  Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 34
Evaluation
The evaluation process of the Board and its Committees consists 
of an internal exercise performed annually and an independent 
third party evaluation carried out at least every three years. When 
done internally, evaluations of the Board and its Committees are 
performed by members of the Board via a questionnaire issued to 
all members of the Board. The feedback from these questionnaires 
is gathered and collated by the Company Secretary for presentation 
to the Board in order to facilitate discussion. The Chairman is 
responsible for conducting the performance evaluation of the 
Group Chief Executive. The Non-Executive Directors, led by the 
Senior Independent Director, are responsible for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman. The Group Chief Executive 
conducts evaluations of any other members of the Executive 
Directors and senior management.
In 2014 we engaged an independent governance specialist, 
Edis-Bates Associates, to carry out an external evaluation. 
Edis-Bates Associates did not have any other connection with the 
Company. A number of areas were identified around management 
structure, business strategy and succession planning that required 
action to be taken. These were either addressed during the year or 
will be reviewed by our new Chairman in 2016. 
The 2015 Board evaluation was implemented via a questionnaire. 
A number of issues were identified and appropriate actions were 
agreed for the future.
Re-election
The Board has decided to adopt provision B.7.1 of the Code 
so that all Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis. 
Michael Sutsko and David Blood, who were each appointed to the 
Board during 2015, and Wayne Edmunds, who was appointed in 
January 2016, will seek election at the forthcoming AGM.
How we engage with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given high priority. Although 
overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication 
with investors lies with the Chairman, on a day-to-day basis the Board’s 
primary contact with major shareholders is via the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are kept apprised of shareholder views 
through the provision of a report at each Board meeting on shareholder 
activity and, where possible, through analyst briefings and feedback 
from results road shows. In addition, all Directors are offered invitations 
to attend all presentations and meetings with shareholders.
The AGM
The AGM presents an additional opportunity to communicate with 
investors. The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at these 
meetings to answer questions.
Each substantially separate issue is proposed as a separate resolution. 
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM, and 
shareholders’ options for voting, can be found in the separate circular 
to shareholders. The Notice of AGM (the “Notice”) and related 
documents are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before 
the date of the meeting.
The Company’s forthcoming AGM will take place at 11.30am on 
26 April 2016 at the offices of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, 
London EC2V 7QP. 
Corporate governance and Directors’ report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 35
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Report of the Nominations Committee
Members
Wayne Edmunds, Chairman (from 25 January 2016)
Bill Ronald, Chairman (until 25 January 2016)
Stephen Bird
David Blood (from 23 July 2015)
Roy Burton (until 2 March 2015)
Tracey Graham
Robert Lambourne
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015)
Objectives
The Nominations Committee (the “Committee”) is responsible for and 
leads the process for all Board appointments, making recommendations 
to the Board where required. It is also responsible for reviewing the size, 
structure and composition of the Board, giving consideration to the 
provision of adequate succession planning for the Executive Directors and 
the senior management team, and making recommendations regarding 
the re-election and re-appointment of Directors. Where applicable, external 
search consultants are engaged to assist with any recruitment process. 
In carrying out its Board reviews and when drawing up selection criteria 
for ongoing succession planning and appointment procedures, the 
Committee considers the balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge of the Board.
Membership
Bill Ronald, Stephen Bird, Tracey Graham and Robert Lambourne were 
members of the Committee throughout 2015. Richard Stuckes remained 
a member until 2 February 2015 and Roy Burton ceased to be a member 
on 2 March 2015. David Blood was appointed a member of the Committee 
on 23 July 2015. Wayne Edmunds succeeded Bill Ronald when he 
stepped down from the roles of Chairman and Director of the Company 
and Chairman of the Committee on 25 January 2016. Appointments to 
the Committee are made by the Board. 
Only members of the Committee have a right to attend meetings. 
Other individuals may be invited to attend for all or any part of a 
meeting, where appropriate. 
Meetings
The number of scheduled meetings attended by members of the 
Committee can be found in the Board/Committee attendance table 
on page 32. A number of unscheduled meetings/discussions were held 
during 2015 reflecting the changes to the composition of the Board that 
occurred during, and following, the end of the year.
Activities during the year
At the beginning of 2015 the Committee focused on addressing the 
need to replace Roy Burton as Group Chief Executive, who stepped down 
from the Board due to ill health. The Committee then considered a letter 
received from the Company’s largest shareholder, Generation Investment 
Management LLP (“Generation”), that proposed appointing David Blood 
as a Non-Executive Director. Following Bill Ronald’s announcement at 
the Group’s half year results to step down as Chairman, the Committee 
undertook a search for a suitable replacement. The Committee also 
considered succession planning during the year. Further details regarding 
each of these activities and Committee actions are set out below.
Group Chief Executive search
The Committee met in early February 2015 to consider its approach 
in the search and recruitment of a new Group Chief Executive. 
A shortlist of executive search firms was agreed and invited to tender. 
As part of the process, Committee members provided a schedule 
of the key attributes required for the role to be used by the chosen 
search firm. Further meetings were held in February, March, April and 
May 2015, to appoint Odgers as the chosen executive search firm; 
review potential candidate profiles; finalise and agree the job 
specification; and meet potential candidates for the role. Richard Stuckes, 
who had been appointed Interim Group Chief Executive in February 2015, 
was a candidate for the permanent role until he withdrew from the 
appointment process in May 2015. Following meetings with all 
prospective candidates during the early part of 2015, the Committee 
recommended the appointment of Michael Sutsko as Group Chief 
Executive to the Board, with effect from 1 June 2015. Odgers does 
not have any other connection with the Company. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 36
Activities during the year continued
Appointment of David Blood as Non-Executive Director 
Following investor meetings with Generation, currently the Company’s 
largest shareholder, a letter was received in early 2015, which proposed 
the appointment of David Blood, senior partner at Generation, as a 
Non-Executive Director. Following a series of discussions at both Board 
and Committee level, it was agreed that the Company’s Chairman at the 
time, Bill Ronald, would liaise with David Blood and agree formal terms of 
appointment, keeping the Board and the Committee updated. It was noted 
that the appointment request was not a formal shareholder nomination.
A series of discussions and meetings were held to consider what 
additional attributes David Blood could bring to the Board. Based on his 
experience, expertise and skills, the Committee agreed that David Blood 
would be appointed as an additional Non-Executive Director of the 
Company with effect from 1 July 2015. His appointment letter is primarily 
based on a standard Non-Executive appointment letter with additional 
clauses covering confidentiality, insider dealing and conflicts of interest 
provisions. Following his appointment, David Blood was also appointed to 
the Audit and Nominations Committees.
While no external search firm was engaged in the process and no formal 
role description was prepared, a formal process as described above was 
still undertaken by the Committee on behalf of the Board in relation to this 
appointment. However, applying a strict interpretation of the Code, 
the Company would be classed as non-compliant with provision B.2 
of the Code.
Board succession planning
At its meeting in May 2015, the Committee considered a paper proposing 
a procedure for succession planning within the Group. This had been 
identified as an area of weakness during the Board’s evaluation exercise 
in 2014. During the meeting the Committee agreed that it would:
 • consider the succession planning of existing Non-Executive Directors 
on an annual basis. This would include consideration of the size, 
structure and composition of the Board, in light of the need to refresh 
Board members periodically (including those approaching six years’ 
service) and having regard to the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, diversity and knowledge of the Board;
 • consider the composition and membership of other governance 
Committees of Dialight, namely the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. In particular, it would consider the financial experience 
of members of the Audit Committee as required by the Code;
 • review the succession plans for the roles of the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director;
 • review the succession plans for other roles within the ExCo and 
senior management team; and
 • review succession planning as a standing item at its May meeting 
each year. This will be revisited in December to coincide with the 
Committee’s review of the re-election and/or election of Directors 
at the next year’s AGM.
A schedule of senior management and key operational roles within 
Dialight is maintained and reviewed by the Committee to assist with 
general succession planning.
Succession planning will continue to be an area of focus for the 
Committee in 2016 under the leadership of the new Chairman. 
The Committee will consider the FRC paper issued in October 2015 
on UK board succession planning as part of this process.
Chairman appointment
As reported in the Company’s half year results, Bill Ronald informed the 
Board of his intention to step down as Chairman and Director of the 
Company in July 2015. The recruitment of his successor was undertaken 
by Stephen Bird as Senior Independent Director, who chaired meetings of 
the Committee during the process. Michael Sutsko, while not a member of 
the Committee, was also engaged in the process.
Following consideration by relevant Committee members, 
JCA was engaged to assist with the search process. After 
consideration during a number of formal meetings and discussions, 
the Committee recommended to the Board that Wayne Edmunds 
should succeed Bill Ronald as Chairman of Dialight plc with effect 
from 25 January 2016. JCA does not have any other connection 
with the Company. 
Diversity
The Board of Dialight has considered the recommendations of the 
Davies Report published in 2011, and subsequent updates, and confirms 
its commitment to the recruitment and promotion of all individuals 
throughout the Group, including those at Board and Executive level, on the 
grounds of ability and merit only. No discrimination of any kind is tolerated.
Dialight is a global company with a global workforce whose diversity 
contributes to Dialight’s success. Regular review of the composition of the 
Group’s employees will provide the necessary information required for the 
Board and senior management to address any issues that could negatively 
impact this approach and commitment.
Further details on Dialight’s workforce diversity can be found on pages 26 
to 27.
Report of the Nominations Committee continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 37
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Members
Robert Lambourne, Chairman
Stephen Bird
David Blood (from 23 July 2015)
Tracey Graham
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015)
The Audit Committee (the “Committee”) is responsible for ensuring that 
the financial integrity of the Group is effective, through regular review 
of its financial performance, risk management processes, internal 
controls and audit processes.
Membership and meetings
The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Lambourne and currently 
comprises three other Non-Executive Directors: Stephen Bird, 
Tracey Graham and David Blood. Robert Lambourne, Stephen Bird 
and Tracey Graham are considered to be independent; however, 
David Blood, who joined the Committee on 23 July 2015, is not 
considered to be independent. All members of the Committee have 
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee will meet as often as it deems necessary but 
in any case at least three times a year, with meetings scheduled 
at appropriate intervals in the financial reporting cycle. The Audit 
Committee met three times during 2015 and a further meeting 
has been held since the year end. All members of the Committee 
were present at all meetings.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings. 
However, standing invitations are extended to the Group Finance 
Director and Internal Audit Manager. Other non-members may be 
invited to attend part or all of any meeting as and when appropriate. 
The external auditors attend selected meetings and also meet in 
private with the Committee. In addition the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee will have regular contact with the external and internal 
auditors throughout the year.
Role of the Audit Committee
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
overseeing the internal financial controls and financial reporting 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, reviewing the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems and for maintaining a proper 
relationship with the external auditors. The Committee’s specific 
responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, available on 
the Company’s website and summarised in the table on page 38.
External auditors
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s relationship 
with its external auditors, KPMG LLP ("KPMG"). This includes the ongoing 
assessment of the auditors’ independence and the effectiveness of the 
external audit process, the results of which inform the Committee’s 
recommendation to the Board as to the auditors’ appointment, which 
is subject to shareholder approval.
Appointment and tenure
KPMG were first appointed as external auditors in 2001. KPMG are 
required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group every 
five years and the current audit partner’s term will end after the 2018 
audit. The Audit Committee recommends that KPMG be re-appointed 
as the Company’s auditors at the next AGM.
The Committee acknowledges that it does not comply strictly 
with Code provision C.3.7 under which FTSE 350 companies should 
put the external audit contract to tender at least every ten years. 
However, this provision is currently under review by the FRC following 
developments on mandatory audit tendering and, in light of the 
Company’s FTSE index position, the Group does not have to comply 
with this provision of the Code. Similarly, the reporting provisions of 
the Competition and Markets Authority Order, which came into effect 
for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, are not 
applicable to the Company. The EU Directive on mandatory audit 
tendering and rotation does, however, apply to the Company.
In its 2014 report, it was noted that the Committee had deferred 
the tender of its external auditors pending the appointment of a 
permanent Group Chief Executive. During 2015 the Committee 
continued to monitor legislative and best practice changes in this area. 
Under EU Directive provisions the Company is required to retender its 
external auditors by 31 December 2023. At that point KPMG would 
not be able to be re-appointed. 
Report of the Audit Committee Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 38
External audit 
 
 • recommend the 
appointment, 
re-appointment 
or removal of the 
external auditors;
 • oversee the relationship, 
approve terms of 
engagement and review 
independence and 
objectivity of the 
external auditors; and
 • meet regularly with the 
external auditors 
without management. 
Internal audit 
 
 • approve appointment or 
removal of the internal 
audit manager;
 • monitor and review 
effectiveness of 
internal audit;
 • review and assess the 
internal audit plan and 
approve its remit;
 • ensure access of internal 
audit to the Board and 
Committee Chairman;
 • review management’s 
responsiveness to internal 
audit findings; and
 • meet with internal audit 
without management 
present at least once 
a year.
Financial and 
narrative reporting 
 • monitor the effectiveness 
of the Group’s financial 
reporting process and 
the integrity of the 
financial statements;
 • review and report to 
the Board on significant 
financial issues 
and judgements;
 • review and challenge 
accounting policies and 
their disclosure as well as 
methods used to account 
for significant or unusual 
transactions; and
 • advise the Board 
whether the 
Annual Report 
is fair, balanced 
and understandable.
Internal controls 
and risk management 
systems
 • keep under review 
the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal financial 
controls and internal 
control and risk 
management systems;
 • keep under review the 
policies and overall 
process for identifying 
and assessing business 
risks and managing 
their impact;
 • consider and review 
areas of specific risk, 
advising the Board on 
the current and future 
risk strategy; and
 • review and approve 
the statements in 
the Annual Report 
concerning internal 
controls and risk 
management systems.
Whistleblowing, 
fraud and bribery 
 • review the adequacy  
and security of 
whistleblowing 
arrangements;
 • review policies and 
procedures for detecting 
fraud and preventing 
bribery; and 
 • establish a code of 
corporate conduct 
and business ethics. 
Non-audit services
The engagement of the external audit firm to provide non-audit 
services to the Group can impact on the Audit Committee’s 
independence assessment. The Committee considers the level and 
nature of services provided by the external auditors and will obtain 
confirmation from the external auditors that they have remained 
independent under the ABP Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The Group has established a policy and framework governing the 
provision of non-audit services, specifying which services, such as 
those that would involve the external auditors taking on management 
responsibility, are not permitted. All requests to utilise the external 
auditors for non-audit services must be reviewed by the Group 
Finance Director.
During 2015, KPMG were engaged to provide non-audit services to the 
Group for a total fee of £0.1m. These were largely one off in nature, 
relating to social security and tax compliance work for our operating 
company in Mexico. The Committee took the view that KPMG’s 
knowledge of the Company and its operations meant that it was best 
placed to provide these services, and was comfortable that the nature and 
extent of the non-audit fees did not compromise KPMG’s independence.
The Audit Committee key responsibilities
Report of the Audit Committee continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 39
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Significant issues
Significant issues and accounting judgements are identified by the finance team and through the external audit process and are reviewed by 
the Audit Committee. The significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out in the 
following table:
Risk area Significant issues and judgements How the issues were addressed
Revenue recognition
Revenue is a key performance indicator for the 
Group. Whilst the Group’s revenue recognition 
policies are not complex, the Group’s customers 
have different contractual terms for transfer of 
ownership. The maintenance of an effective 
control environment within the manufacturing 
sites is fundamental to ensuring appropriate 
revenue recognition.
Controls relevant to the manufacturing sites are 
formally documented within the manufacturing sites. 
The accounting policies for revenue recognition are 
set out in note 3 to the financial statements and are 
unchanged from previous periods.
The Audit Committee considered reports prepared 
by internal audit during the year and noted no 
significant issues with respect to the operation of 
the controls around revenue recognition.
The Audit Committee also considered a report 
from the external auditors, which commented, 
inter alia, on revenue recognition.
Identification and disclosure of 
non-underlying items
The Group is undergoing a significant 
transformation programme in connection with 
which the Group has incurred a significant degree 
of costs that are considered to be exceptional in 
nature as they are not representative of the 
underlying performance of the Group. Further 
details of these costs are provided in note 6 to 
the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has discussed the nature 
of these costs with management and the external 
auditors. The Audit Committee is of the view that 
these costs warrant separate disclosure on the 
face of the consolidated income statement by 
virtue of the fact they are not representative 
of the underlying performance of the Group. 
The Audit Committee considers that separate 
disclosure of exceptional costs will aid investors 
in evaluating the performance of the business 
in the year.
Use of judgements
• Development costs
• Goodwill
• Inventory
The use of judgement and estimates is required 
in a number of areas, primarily with assessing the 
amount of development costs capitalised, 
goodwill valuation and the value of inventory.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and 
challenged key assumptions used in these areas. 
The Audit Committee requested management 
prepare an in-depth analysis of capitalised 
development costs, goodwill impairment and 
inventory. Following review, the Audit Committee 
concluded that the judgements applied were 
appropriate in preparing the financial statements 
for the year.
When considering the financial statements, the Committee also considered the issues included in the Group’s critical accounting policies, which 
are set out in note 2 to the financial statements. Having discussed these matters with management and the external auditors the Committee has 
satisfied itself that such risks are being appropriately managed, that the judgements made are reasonable and that they are being accounted for 
in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and principles. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 40
Internal audit
The role of the internal audit function is to determine whether the 
Group’s risk management, control and governance processes are 
adequate and functioning appropriately.
The Committee approved the 2016 internal audit plan at its meeting in 
February 2016. Internal audit findings will be regularly reported to the 
Audit Committee and Group management, with responsibility for any 
improvement or remedial action allocated appropriately. Follow-up 
reviews will be carried out by internal audit to ensure that any control 
weaknesses are addressed. The Committee will use these reports and 
reviews as the basis for its assessment of the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function in 2016.
Fair, balanced and understandable
Under the Matters Reserved for the Board, the Board has responsibility 
for the approval of all externally published information including, but not 
limited to, annual and half yearly financial statements.
At the request of the Board, the Committee has conducted a review 
of the Annual Report and financial statements to assess whether it 
presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Company’s 
position and prospects. The Committee’s review took account of the 
process by which the Annual Report and financial statements are 
prepared which includes:
 • detailed project planning;
 • analysis of changes to applicable reporting requirements 
and standards; and
• review and verification internally and by external advisers.
The Committee has advised the Board that it is satisfied that the 
Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and 
understandable, and that they provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance.
Internal controls and risk management systems
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, which 
includes a detailed annual budgeting and forecasting process. The budget 
is prepared annually for approval by the Board and is regularly reviewed 
and updated during the year. Performance is monitored against the budget 
through weekly and monthly reporting cycles. In 2015 regular reports 
on performance, including income statements, balance sheets, cash flow 
statements and key ratios, were provided to the Board. 
The Group finance team is responsible for preparing the external Group 
financial statements and there are well established controls over this 
reporting process.
The Group has defined and formally documented the core elements of the 
system of internal control. Management has identified the key operational 
and financial processes that exist within the business and implemented 
internal controls over these processes with clearly defined levels of 
delegated authority that have been communicated across the Group. 
The Group has also continued to develop its governance arrangements, 
which has included the enhancement of various policies and procedures 
to support the systems of internal control and risk management. 
These policies are the subject of periodic review.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting the Group’s risk 
appetite, identifying key risks and ensuring that there is an effective risk 
management framework in place. The Board has, however, delegated 
responsibility for oversight of the Group’s risk appetite, risk monitoring 
and mitigation to the Audit Committee.
Further details of the Group’s risk management approach, structure and 
principal risks are set out in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 24.
Review of effectiveness of internal financial controls
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee on its 
activities, including the Audit Committee’s review of reports prepared by 
internal audit on the operation and efficacy of internal controls systems. 
During 2015, the Group performed a review of its existing internal 
controls following which minor improvements were implemented to 
ensure the Group’s compliance with the Code. These related to 
inventory management, further details are contained in the Financial 
review on page 20. As such the Directors confirm that they have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the 
period under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report 
and financial statements. 
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
Whistleblowing
The Company has implemented a whistleblowing policy. The Committee 
is responsible for monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements 
and the policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board. The Group is 
confident that these arrangements are effective enough to facilitate the 
proportionate and independent investigation of reported matters, and 
allow appropriate follow-up action to be taken.
Report of the Audit Committee continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 41
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Other statutory disclosures
Conflicts of interest
The Company has arrangements in place to consider and deal with 
Directors’ conflicts of interest. An annual review is undertaken, 
facilitated by the Company Secretary, with all identified conflicts 
recorded on a register that is adopted by the Board. Conflicted 
Directors are not able to attend meetings where the conflicted contract 
is discussed and decisions are made. 
Richard Stuckes declared an interest in an ongoing contract 
negotiation between Dialight Europe Limited and DS Smith Packaging 
Limited in accordance with Section 177 of the CA 2006, during the 
time he was a director of the latter company. Due to the potential 
conflict of interest existing as a consequence of David Blood’s 
relationship with Generation Investment Partners LLP, terms regarding 
dealing with conflicts of interest were incorporated into his letter 
of appointment. 
None of the other Directors had or have an interest in any material 
contract relating to the business of the Company or any of its 
subsidiary undertakings.
Directors’ indemnity and insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance and third party qualifying 
indemnity provisions pursuant to the CA 2006 for its Directors and officers.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 8 March 2016 the Company had received the following 
notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the FCA:
% 
Shareholder Holding voting rights
Generation Investment Management LLP 6,532,248 20.10
Schroders plc 4,477,246 13.78
FIL Ltd 2,339,141 7.19
Impax Asset Management Ltd 1,979,721 6.09
Montanaro Asset Management Ltd 1,882,113 5.79
Sterling Strategic Value Ltd 1,680,000 5.17
Mirabaud Asset Management Ltd 1,434,438 4.44
Kinderhook Partners LLC 1,010,198 3.10
Global presence, investments and acquisitions
The Group’s head office is based in Newmarket, UK, which is also its 
European headquarters. However, the Group operates in various 
geographical areas including Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Germany, 
Malaysia, Mexico, North America, Singapore and the UAE. 
Research and development
The Group continues to invest resources in technology and product 
development in Denmark, the UK and the US with the aim of consistently 
updating and expanding its product range. The Company strongly 
believes that investment in this area is essential for the Group to retain 
and increase its market share in competitive markets.
Employees
Regular, ongoing communication with employees is key to ensuring that 
there is clarity which allows our employees to understand their role in 
improving the Group’s business performance and awareness of factors 
affecting the Company’s performance. Regular meetings are held by 
management teams to discuss the Company’s performance and 
strategy. All attendees are encouraged to contribute to discussions.
Further details of Dialight’s employment policies and its approach 
to diversity and disability can be found in the Strategic report on 
pages 26 to 27 and in the Report of the Nominations Committee 
on page 36
Political donations
It is Group policy that no donations are made, nor expenditure incurred, 
for political purposes and as a result there were no such political 
donations, or expenditure, made or incurred during the year (2014: £nil).
Human rights
Even though the Company does not have a formal human rights policy, 
it is committed to conducting business with integrity and fairness, 
which is reinforced through our Code of Business Conduct.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The following table is included to meet the requirements of Listing Rule 
9.8.4R. The information required to be disclosed by that section, where 
applicable to the Company, can be located in the 2015 Annual Report 
and Accounts at the references set out below: 
Location in the Annual Report
Information required Note Pages
Long-term incentive schemes:
Significant agreements/change of control — 43
Remuneration Committee report and policy — 45 to 64
Employee benefits – share-based 
payments (consolidated) 19 94
Called up share capital (Company) 43 108
Share-based payments (Company) 37 106 Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 42
Environmental management system 
Dialight’s environmental management system (“EMS”) continues 
to be certified to ISO 14001 across its European, Asian and 
North American businesses. 
Certified sites are located in Denmark, the UK, the US, Mexico and 
Malaysia. The scope of the registration is environmental management 
in the design and manufacture of electrical and electronic components 
and sub assemblies. The EMS includes procedures for the management 
of waste, trade effluent, hazardous substances, environmental processes 
and procedures, enforcement actions, and compliance with regulatory 
frameworks and legislation. 
Greenhouse gas emissions
Dialight is required to report its annual greenhouse gas emissions 
pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). Dialight has systems in 
place for the collation of data for reporting purposes and for reporting 
against its emissions for the full year to 31 December, in parallel with 
the Company’s financial reporting year end. 
The table below sets out Dialight’s emissions for 2015 and 2014: 
Tonnes of CO2 Tonnes of CO 2 
Type of emissions 2015 2014
Emissions from combustion 
of fuel and operation of 
facilities emissions
851
tonnes CO2e
645
tonnes CO2e
Emissions from 
purchased electricity
3,100
tonnes CO2e
11,887
tonnes CO2e
To enable year-on-year comparison of Dialight’s greenhouse gas 
emissions, an intensity ratio has been determined. This is based on the 
tonnes of greenhouse gas used during the year expressed as tonnes 
CO
2
e emitted per £1m of turnover. For 2015 this was 24.48 tonnes 
CO
2
e emitted per £1m turnover (2014: 78.42 tonnes CO
2
e). This data 
was collected and collated in accordance with the Defra 
recommendations. The methodology was not subject to independent 
assurance.
Energy and water use
The Company is also required to report on energy and water use 
as part of its environmental management reporting. The data for 
this is produced for the Group as a whole and by each location.
Operations across the Group consumed the following resources 
in 2015 and 2014:
2015
Resource Total consumption Unit
Consumption
per £ turnover
Electricity 6,007,617 kWh 0.037
Gas 1,948,781 kWh 0.012
Oil 4,248 litre 0.026
Water 9,008,072 litre 0.056
2014
Resource Total consumption Unit
Consumption
per £ turnover
Electricity 11,777,349 kWh 0.073
Gas 1,660,267 kWh 0.010
Oil 6,348 litre 0.039
Water 7,777,729 litre 0.048
Waste management
Dialight has three zero-waste-to-landfill sites, which are located in 
Australia, Denmark and the UK. Additionally, the variety of waste 
recycled across the business as a whole has increased and local 
management is supported in identifying additional recycling 
opportunities to minimise waste-to-landfill.
Environment registrations
Dialight is registered and discharges its duties in relation to packaging 
waste, Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Regulations 
and disposing of batteries and trade effluent. Dialight is required to hold 
the following registrations with regards to environmental management as 
a result of its activities and undertakings: WEEE (Germany and the UK), 
Packaging Waste Obligation (Germany and the UK), Battery Recycling 
(Germany), Trade Effluent (UK), ISO 14001 Environmental Management 
System (Denmark, the UK, the US, Mexico and Malaysia), Non-hazardous 
Waste Producer (Mexico) and Hazardous Waste Producer (UK).
Environment enforcement actions and governance
There were no environmental enforcement actions or statutory 
nuisance control orders issued against Dialight in 2015 (2014: nil). 
Dialight works with all relevant regulatory organisations to ensure risks 
to the environment as a result of its undertakings are minimised and 
that all legal obligations are met.
There were no environmental incidents (unintentional emissions to air, 
land or water) as a result of Dialight’s undertakings in 2015 (2014: nil).
Financial risk management
Risk management objectives and policies, including hedging policies and 
exposure (including price, credit, liquidity or cash flow risk) of the Company 
in relation to the use of financial instruments, are contained in note 23 of the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements on pages 95 to 98.
Dividend
Shareholders at the 2015 AGM approved the payment of a 2014 final 
dividend of 9.8 pence per share which was paid on 2 June 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 May 2015. 
No dividend was declared or paid in respect of the half year ended 
30 June 2015. As announced at the time of our Strategic Review 
in October 2015, the Group’s strategic focus is on the delivery of 
profitable growth and therefore the Board has not declared a dividend 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Board will re-evaluate its 
dividend policy at the end of the 2016 financial year.
Other statutory disclosures continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 43
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, the auditors 
have been made aware of all relevant audit information. The Directors 
further confirm that they have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain 
any relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware 
of such information. At the forthcoming AGM a resolution to re-appoint 
KPMG as auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration 
will be proposed. Further details are set out in the Report of the 
Audit Committee.
Share capital and structure 
As at 31 December 2015 the Company had 32,503,258 fully paid 
ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each in issue which are listed on the 
Main Market of the London Stock Exchange. The Company has a single 
class of shares. There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the 
Company’s shares, although the Articles of Association (the “Articles”) 
contain provisions whereby Directors may refuse to register a transfer 
of a certificated share which is not fully paid. 
No shares have been issued that carry any special rights with regard to 
the control of the Company. Each ordinary share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company. 
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s shares are 
contained in the Company’s Articles, a copy of which can be obtained 
from the Registered Office. The Articles may only be amended by a 
special resolution of the Company at a general meeting. No one person 
has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and 
all shares are fully paid. Subject to statutory provisions, the rights 
attached to a class of shares may be varied whether or not the 
Company is being wound up in accordance with the Articles. 
At the 2015 AGM shareholders granted the Directors the authority to 
purchase up to 3,250,325 ordinary shares in the Company which will 
expire on 30 June 2016. A similar authority will be sought from 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors have the power to issue and buy back shares in the 
Company, as well as to grant options over or otherwise dispose of 
unissued shares in the Company, to such persons, at such times and 
on such terms as they think proper.
Full details of the Company’s share capital are given in note 17 
to the financial statements. 
Directors’ interests and Company share plans
The interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the 
Company can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on 
pages 45 to 64, together with details of the Directors’ service contracts. 
Significant agreements/change of control
The Directors are not aware of there being any significant agreements 
that contain any material change of control provisions to which the 
Company is a party, other than in respect of the four-year unsecured 
£25m multi-currency revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc which 
was entered into in 2014. Under the terms of that facility, and in the 
event of a change of control of the Company, the bank can withdraw 
funding and all outstanding loans, accrued interests and other amounts 
due and owing can become payable within 30 days of the change.
The Company currently operates three share plans: a Performance 
Share Plan ("PSP"), the Annual Performance Bonus Plan ("APBP") and 
an all-employee Sharesave Plan. Further details of these share plans 
are provided in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 45 to 64.
The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change of control 
through a general offer or scheme of arrangement, shares subject to 
awards under the PSP could be released within one month of the date 
of notification of the likely change of control. The rules of the Sharesave 
Plan have special provisions which also allow for early exercise in the 
event of a change of control, reconstruction or winding up of the 
Company. Internal reorganisations do not automatically trigger the early 
exercise of options.
The Company has established the Dialight Employees’ Share 
Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) in which all employees of the Group, 
including Executive Directors, are potential beneficiaries. The ESOT 
held 9,606 shares at 31 December 2015 (2014: 9,606). The Trustees 
of the ESOT retain the voting rights over the shares held in the ESOT and 
may exercise these rights independent of the interests of the Company.
By order of the Board
Fariyal Khanbabi, Group Finance Director
8 March 2016
Company number: 2486024
Registered Office
Dialight plc
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 44
Responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards (including FRS 102 
The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic 
of Ireland).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent 
company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 • for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
 • for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and 
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance statement 
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
Annual Report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 • the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in consolidation taken as a whole; 
• the Corporate governance and Directors’ report include a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and the position of 
the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
• the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders’ to assess the Group’s financial position and 
performance, business model and strategy.
For and on the behalf of the Board of Dialight plc
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
Fariyal Khanbabi, Group Finance Director
8 March 2016 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 45
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Members
Tracey Graham, Chair
Stephen Bird
Robert Lambourne
Bill Ronald (until 25 January 2016) 
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015)
Annual statement by Tracey Graham, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration 
Committee’s (the “Committee”) report on remuneration for 2015. 
Details of the business covered by the Committee at its meetings can 
be found in the table on page 46. Having reviewed performance for 
2015 the Committee has agreed that no bonuses are payable to the 
Executive Directors. Matters relating to the consideration and approval 
of bonuses for the financial year ended 2014 have been considered 
and disclosed in the prior year’s Remuneration Committee report.
Other key activities carried out by the Committee in the year included:
 • carrying out the annual review of the remuneration framework;
 • considering the settlement agreement for Roy Burton after he 
stepped down as Group Chief Executive in March 2015;
 • granting of the Annual Performance Bonus Plan (“APBP”) and 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) awards; 
 • recommending and agreeing the remuneration arrangements 
for our new Group Chief Executive, Michael Sutsko, who joined 
Dialight in June 2015, as well as for our Interim Group Chief 
Executive, Richard Stuckes, in line with the approved Directors’ 
remuneration policy; and
• considering the fee arrangement for the new Chairman, 
Wayne Edmunds, who joined Dialight on 25 January 2016.
Details of Roy Burton’s contractual payments agreed at the time 
of his stepping down as Group Chief Executive and details of the 
remuneration arrangements agreed with Richard Stuckes at the time 
of his appointment as Interim Group Chief Executive can be found 
in a separate Payments to past Directors disclosure on page 52. 
Details of Michael Sutsko’s remuneration are set out in the 
Remuneration report. The Group Chief Executive remuneration 
scenario table has been updated in our remuneration policy (adopted 
in 2014) to reflect his actual position and joining package, which was 
made in line with, and pursuant to, the remuneration policy approved 
at our 2014 AGM. This is set out on page 63. 
Committee meeting attendance by members is included in a table 
in our Corporate governance and Directors’ report on page 32. 
Richard Stuckes stepped down as a member of the Committee on 
2 February 2015 upon his appointment as Interim Group Chief Executive. 
Bill Ronald stepped down as a member of the Committee on 
25 January 2016, when he resigned as Chairman of the Board.
We aim to make Dialight’s remuneration arrangement clear, easy to 
understand and transparent so that this report is an easy reference 
document for shareholders. As part of this, we have continued to 
replicate the policy as an appendix to this report. It is set out on pages 
57 to 64. The only changes from last year’s printed report are purely 
administrative and deal with updated page references and the 
remuneration for the new Group Chief Executive. 
This report continues to be prepared in accordance with the provisions 
of the CA 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013. It also meets the requirements of the Listing Rules 
and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The remainder of the report is divided into two sections: 
 • the Annual report on remuneration – this focuses on the 
implementation of the remuneration policy in 2015 and how we 
intend to implement our remuneration policy in 2016. In accordance 
with regulatory requirements, this is being put to an advisory vote 
at our 2016 AGM. 
• the Directors’ remuneration policy (in the appendix) – this details 
the Group’s remuneration policies, which are linked to the 
Group’s strategy. 
The sections of the report that are subject to audit can be found 
on pages 47 to 55.
Remuneration Committee report Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 46
Committee agenda and matters considered 
The following table sets out the key agenda items and matters considered at each of the Committee’s meetings and/or discussed outside 
of meetings during the year:
January 2015 • Discussions regarding the Group Chief Executive of the Board
February 2015 • Confirmation and ratification of the separation/engagement arrangements of Group Chief Executive/
Interim Group Chief Executive
 • Noting the outcome of the objective targets under the 2014 APBP
 • Consideration of 2015 APBP objectives for Interim Group Chief Executive
 • Determination of the criterion outcome of the 2012 PSP awards
 • Review of the draft Remuneration report
March 2015 • Consideration and approval of participants for 2015 APBP
 • Consideration and approval of 2015 PSP awards
May 2015 • Consideration and approval of new Group Chief Executive remuneration package
June 2015 • Review of the outcome of Interim Group Chief Executive 2015 APBP objectives 
August 2015 • Grant of PSP award to new Group Chief Executive
September 2015 • Remuneration review update
December 2015 • Consideration of the fee arrangements for the new Chairman
 • Consideration of Executive remuneration in 2015
 • Consideration of performance measures for the 2016 PSP award
 • Executive benchmarking 
 • Remuneration governance developments update 
 • Review of terms of reference
Details of the Company strategy and key performance indicators 
(“KPIs”) can be found on pages 12 to 17. One of our main KPIs relates 
to the growth in Group earnings before interest and tax (“EBIT”). As a 
result, performance related elements of remuneration, notably in the 
APBP, have been linked to the growth in EBIT for the last three years. 
Other metrics have been considered; however, the Committee remains 
in agreement that the use of EBIT as a primary measure remains the 
most effective for incentivising the Executive Directors.
Key Committee decisions made during the year included:
 • setting the 2015 salary increases for Executive Directors;
 • considering the settlement agreement for Roy Burton, after he 
stepped down in March 2015;
 • considering the remuneration arrangements for Richard Stuckes 
when he was appointed Interim Group Chief Executive;
 • review of cash bonuses in respect of the 2014 financial year;
 • review of the performance targets outcome in relation to the 2012 
PSP award;
 • setting APBP objectives for 2015;
 • recommending and agreeing the remuneration arrangements for 
Michael Sutsko when he was appointed Group Chief Executive in 
June 2015; and
• reviewing the fee arrangements for the new Chairman. 
In light of the Committee’s activities in 2015, some of the discussions 
and subsequent decisions were implemented via conference calls, 
circular resolutions or email approvals.
The total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance of Dialight over 
the three-year performance period from 2013 to 2015 has been below 
the objectives set by the Committee at the date of grant. As a result, 
no portion of the 2013 PSP awards will vest in April 2016.
Since the year end, the Committee agreed and recommended to the 
Board salary increases of 3% and 5% for the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director respectively with effect from 1 January 2016. 
The increase for the Group Finance Director reflected a review of market 
benchmark data, where the role is positioned in the lower quartile. As 
noted above, it was decided that no bonuses would be payable in 
respect of the 2015 financial year. Further details are included in the 
Executive salaries and Non-Executive Director fees section on page 55 
and will be included in the remuneration report for 2016.
The Committee remains committed to aligning our remuneration 
framework with the strategy of the business to promote the long-term 
success of the Company for its shareholders.
Tracey Graham, Chair of the Remuneration Committee
8 March 2016
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 47
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Annual report on remuneration
The following sets out how Dialight’s remuneration policy was implemented in 2015 and how it will be implemented in 2016.
Single figure of total remuneration
The following tables set out the single figure of total remuneration received by the Executive and Non-Executive Directors during the years ended 
31 December 2015 and 2014.
2015
(all figures in ’000s) Salary/fee Benefits Pension
Sub-total
fixed Bonus PSP
Sub-total
variable
Total
remuneration
Executive Directors
Michael Sutsko
1
$334 $131 $58 $523 — — — $523
Fariyal Khanbabi £247 £13 £37 £297 — — — £297
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald £128 — — £128 — — — £128
Stephen Bird £46 — — £46 — — — £46
David Blood
2
£20 — — £20 — — — £20
Tracey Graham £46 — — £46 — — — £46
Robert Lambourne £46 — — £46 — — — £46
Past Directors
Roy Burton
3
$108 $3 $1 $112 — — — $112
Richard Stuckes
4
£192 £7 — £199 — — — £199
1  Michael Sutsko was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015. His annual salary is $560,000 and, pursuant to his terms of appointment, his salary was subject 
to a first review at the end of 2015, with any revision taking effect from 1 January 2016. Included within his benefits figure is an amount reimbursed to Michael Sutsko 
for relocation expenses to move to New Jersey to take up his role. Such expenses were capped at $100,000.
2  David Blood was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015.
3  Roy Burton stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 2 March 2015 on the grounds of ill health. His twelve-month notice period as a remaining employee of Dialight 
Corporation expired in March 2016. The figures disclosed in the table above relate only to his remuneration for the period from 1 January 2015 to 2 March 2015 as a 
Director of the Company. Details of the settlement payment made to him, and outstanding contractual payments continuing to be paid following his death in July 2015, 
are set out in the Payments to past Directors disclosure on page 52.
4  Richard Stuckes’ salary/fee figure consists of: fees of £13,533, reflecting his tenure as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January to 1 February 2015; three months’ 
payment in lieu of his notice as a Non-Executive Director from 30 June 2015; and £178,125, reflecting his salary payment during his appointment as Interim Group 
Chief Executive from 2 February to 30 June 2015. The figures recorded for benefits in the table for 2015 relate to the time he was Interim Group Chief Executive. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 48
Single figure of total remuneration continued
2014
(all figures in ’000s) Salary/fee Benefits Pension
Sub-total
fixed Bonus PSP
Sub-total
variable
Total
remuneration
Executive Directors
Roy Burton
4
$560 $46 $168 $774 $379
4
— $379 $1,153
Fariyal Khanbabi
1
£78 £4 £12 £94 £100
2
— £100 £194
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald £125 — — £125 — — — £125
Stephen Bird £45 — — £45 — — — £45
Tracey Graham £45 — — £45 — — — £45
Robert Lambourne £45 — — £45 — — — £45
Richard Stuckes £40 — — £40 — — — £40
Past Directors
Mark Fryer
3
£10 £0.5 £1.5 £12 £20 — £20 £32
1 Fariyal Khanbabi was appointed Group Finance Director on 8 September 2014. Her annual salary on appointment was £247,000. 
2 The bonus awarded to Fariyal Khanbabi for 2014 of £100,000 was allocated as a cash bonus of £25,000 and an award of shares under the APBP rules of £75,000.
3  Mark Fryer stepped down as Group Finance Director on 15 January 2014 but remained with the Company as an employee until 31 March 2014. The figures disclosed in 
the table above relate only to his remuneration for the period from 1 January 2014 to 15 January 2014 as a Director of the Company. Details of the payments made to 
him on termination and loss of office were set out in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. 
4 Roy Burton received a bonus of $280,000 and $99,000 under the APBP – both are shown in the figure of $379,000 shown as bonus. 
Additional disclosures
Executive Directors’ benefits
Executive Directors receive benefits comprising life insurance, healthcare and car allowances.
Pensions
The figure includes the amount of Company contributions to Roy Burton, Fariyal Khanbabi and Michael Sutsko’s pensions during the year. 
Fariyal Khanbabi and Michael Sutsko received Company contributions equal to 15% of their base salaries. Roy Burton received employer 
contributions under both a US 401(k) plan plus an employer contribution under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). 
APBP 
The APBP operates on the basis set out in the Policy report in the appendix on page 60. The maximum bonus potential is capped at 175% of 
salary paid as a mixture of cash and deferred shares.
2012 and 2013 APBP
No deferred share awards were made in respect of the 2012 and 2013 financial year ends.
2014 APBP 
As was previously disclosed in the 2014 Remuneration Committee report on 13 March 2015, the Group Finance Director, Fariyal Khanbabi, was 
awarded nil-cost options over 10,445 shares representing 75% of her bonus award of £100,000 for 2014. Subject to her continued employment 
with the Group, these awards will vest in equal tranches on 31 January 2016 and 31 January 2017.
2015 APBP 
The 2015 APBP objective related primarily and solely to EBIT pursuant to the remuneration policy as considered appropriate by the 
Committee. Initially the 2015 objective applied only to the Group Finance Director, Fariyal Khanbabi, but it was subsequently extended to 
the new Group Chief Executive, Michael Sutsko, when he joined the Company in June 2015. Separate objectives were set for the Interim 
Group Chief Executive, during his appointment in 2015, which are detailed below in the “Payments to past Directors disclosure” on page 52. 
No APBP objectives were set for Roy Burton in 2015.
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 49
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Additional disclosures continued
APBP continued
2015 APBP continued
Under the terms of the 2015 APBP:
 • no cash bonuses would be payable where EBIT was below £22.1m, after the provision of management bonuses;
 • at an EBIT level of £22.1m, after the provision of management bonuses, cash bonuses of 75% of salary for the Group Finance Director, and 100% 
in the case of the Group Chief Executive, would become payable (target performance);
 • at an EBIT level of £26.3m, after the provision of management bonuses, maximum bonuses would become payable. In the case of the Group 
Finance Director, the maximum bonus opportunity was capped at 100%, and for the Group Chief Executive the maximum bonus was capped 
at 175% (maximum performance);
 • at an EBIT level between the target and maximum points, there would be a straight-line interpolation payout; 
 • EBIT would be calculated based upon the total of the underlying EBIT shown the in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015; and
• anything over 75% of salary for the Group Finance Director, and 100% in the case of the Group Chief Executive, would be payable 
in deferred shares.
As 2015 EBIT was below the objective target set, no bonuses became payable under the 2015 APBP.
PSP 
Awards made in 2012
Awards made under the PSP in 2012 lapsed on 26 April 2015 as the related performance target was not achieved during the three-year 
performance period to 31 December 2014.
Awards made in 2015 
Awards granted in 2015 are measured against EPS and TSR as below:
EPS 
EPS is used as a complementary measure of performance relating to 50% of awards. The EPS vesting condition is Dialight’s compound annual 
three-year EPS growth rate. For awards made in 2015, this element will vest in full if Dialight’s three-year EPS growth exceeds 25% p.a., with a 25% 
threshold vesting if Dialight’s three-year EPS growth is 10% p.a. over the period. Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these two points, 
with none vesting if Dialight’s EPS growth over the three-year period is less than 10% p.a. The Committee will review the performance targets prior 
to the grant of any future awards to ensure they are appropriately stretching but achievable.
TSR
TSR is used in respect of the remaining 50% of awards in order to maintain strong shareholder alignment. For awards made in 2015, the TSR 
vesting condition is based upon Dialight’s three-year TSR % outperformance of the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). This 
element will vest in full if Dialight’s three-year TSR exceeds Index TSR by 10% p.a., with a 25% threshold vesting if Dialight’s three-year TSR is 
in line with Index TSR. Straight-line vesting applies for outperformance of the Index between these two points. The TSR outperformance 
requirement is broadly in line with practice at other FTSE-listed companies, taking into account Dialight’s relative size.
Director Plan
% of salary
awarded Nature of interest
Exercise
price per
share
Number of
shares subject
 to an award
Face value of
an award
’000
Performance
conditions
Date of grant
of award
Date of end of
performance
period
Fariyal Khanbabi PSP 100% Nil-cost option n/a 32,325 £247 TSR/EPS 07.04.15 31.12.17
Michael Sutsko PSP 100% Conditional share award n/a 71,644 $560 TSR/EPS 03.08.15 31.12.17
Awards granted in 2015 had the same EPS and TSR measurements as those for 2014 and were considered by the Committee to be appropriately 
stretching but achievable. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 50
Total shareholding of Directors 
Beneficially held shares
1
Ordinary shares
at 31 December
2015
Ordinary shares
at 1 January
2015
Current Directors
Michael Sutsko
2
— —
Fariyal Khanbabi — —
Bill Ronald
3
31,000 18,350
Stephen Bird
4
28,000 12,000
David Blood
5
— —
Tracey Graham 1,000 1,000
Robert Lambourne
6
5,000 4,000
Past Directors
Roy Burton
7
— 404,427
Richard Stuckes
8
— 37,853
Total 65,000 477,630
1 Some of these shares are held through nominees. 
2 Michael Sutsko was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015.
3 Bill Ronald purchased 7,500 and 5,150 ordinary shares on 2 March 2015 and 27 July 2015 respectively at 726 pence and 455 pence per share respectively. 
4 Stephen Bird purchased 8,000 ordinary shares on 2 March 2015 and 28 July 2015 at 725 pence and 410 pence per share respectively. 
5 David Blood was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015.
6 Robert Lambourne purchased 1,000 ordinary shares on 29 July 2015, which were placed into his SIPP, at 492 pence per share.
7 Roy Burton stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 2 March 2015. 
8 Richard Stuckes stepped down as Interim Group Chief Executive on 30 June 2015.
9 There has been no change in Directors’ holdings since 31 December 2015. 
Outstanding awards under the PSP and APBP 
Type of
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January
2015
Awarded
 in year
Vested
 in year
Exercised
 in year
Lapsed
 in year
Number at
31 December
2015
Exercise
price
Earliest vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
date
Roy Burton
PSP CSA 26.04.12 30,163 — — — 30,163 — — — —
PSP CSA 09.04.13 28,210 — — — — 28,210 — 09.04.16 —
PSP CSA 08.04.14 38,491 — — — — 38,491 — 08.04.17 —
Total 96,864 — — — 30,163 66,701
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 51
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Outstanding awards under the PSP and APBP continued
Type of
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January
2015
Awarded
 in year
Vested
 in year
Exercised
 in year
Lapsed
 in year
Number at
31 December
2015
Exercise
price
Earliest vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
date
Fariyal Khanbabi
PSP NCO 16.09.14 27,674 — — — — 27,674 — 16.09.17 16.09.24
PSP NCO 07.04.15 — 32,325 — — — 32,325 — 07.04.18 07.04.20
APBP NCO 13.03.15 — 10,445 — — — 10,445 — 31.01.16 13.03.20
Total 27,674 42,770 — — — 70,444
Type of
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January
2015
Awarded
 in year
Vested
 in year
Exercised
 in year
Lapsed
 in year
Number at
31 December
2015
Exercise
price
Earliest vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
date
Michael Sutsko
PSP CSA 03.08.15 — 71,644 — — — 71,644 — 03.08.18 —
CSA denotes conditional share awards. These are subject to performance conditions set out on page 49.
NCO denotes nil-cost options. These are subject to performance conditions set out on page 49.
The market price of shares on 13 March 2015, 7 April 2015 and 3 August 2015 (the dates of the awards recorded in the tables above made 
during the year) were 718.0 pence, 764.1 pence and 499.8 pence respectively.
Options under the PSP granted prior to and during 2014 are exercisable for seven years from the date of vesting. From 2015 the exercise period 
reduces to two years from the date of vesting.
Awards under the PSP made in 2013 will lapse in full on 9 April 2016 as a consequence of the related performance target not being achieved 
during the three-year financial period ended 31 December 2015.
Awards under the PSP made in 2014 and 2015 are currently performing below the level required to achieve threshold vesting.
Options under the APBP are exercisable for five years from the date of grant. 
During the year, the range of share prices was 439.75 pence to 831.5 pence, with the price on 31 December 2015 being 450.0 pence.
The PSP award made to Roy Burton in 2012 lapsed on 26 April 2015. The PSP awards made to Roy Burton in 2013 and 2014 remained 
outstanding at the time of his death in July 2015 and are shown as outstanding as at 31 December 2015. As noted above, the 2013 award 
will lapse in full on 9 April 2016 as a consequence of the related performance target not being achieved during the financial year ended 
31 December 2015. The 2014 PSP award remains outstanding and, in accordance with the rules of the PSP and subject to the determination 
of the related performance target at the end of 2016, his personal representatives will be entitled to a pro-rated vesting up to the time of his 
death. As noted above, the 2014 PSP is, however, currently performing below the level required to achieve threshold vesting.
The award under the PSP made to Michael Sutsko on 3 August 2015 was made pursuant to his terms of appointment following his 
appointment as Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 52
Awards under the Sharesave Plan
The Company operates an all-employee UK Sharesave Plan with equivalent arrangements in other countries. The first grant of options was made 
on 18 September 2014 to eligible employees in the UK, the US and Mexico. A second invitation and grant in those countries was made in 2015. 
Under the terms of the plans employees can save up to a limit of £250 per month or local currency equivalent with an option to buy Dialight plc 
shares at the end of a three-year vesting period (subject to continued employment) at a 20% discount of the price of a Dialight plc share at the 
time of invitation. There are no performance measures associated with the grant.
Details of the options over ordinary shares of Dialight plc granted to Roy Burton under the International part of the Sharesave Plan in 2014, 
which remained outstanding at the time of his death in July 2015, are set out in the table below. His personal representatives may, under the rules of the 
International part of the Sharesave Plan, exercise that option to the extent of savings made at the time of his death at any time during the period ending 
15 March 2016. 
Balance Balance
of options at of options at
1 January Granted in 31 December
2015 2015 2015
Roy Burton 1,297 — 1,297
The option price at grant in 2014 was 717.6 pence. This represents 80% of the market value of a Dialight plc share on 26 August 2014, the day 
immediately preceding the date on which the 2014 invitations were sent to eligible employees.
The actual number of shares that may be exercised will be subject to the prevailing USD/GBP exchange rate at the time of exercise. 
Executive Directors’ shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are currently required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in value to their annual PSP award 
(i.e. currently 100% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director). In accordance with the guidelines, Executive Directors 
have five years from joining Dialight to acquire the requisite holding. All Dialight shares, whether purchased on the open market or received 
through vestings and/or exercises under the various Dialight share plans, shall be included to satisfy the requirements. The Dialight share price 
used to value a holding for the purposes of the guidelines will be the higher of: (i) the prevailing price on the date that the holding is valued; and 
(ii) the acquisition price (i.e. the price on the date on which the awards were acquired). The table below shows the holdings of ordinary shares in 
the Company as at 31 December 2015 held by Executive Directors and their compliance with the guidelines:
Shares held at Shares held at
1 January 31 December
Executive Director 2015 2015
Fariyal Khanbabi — —
Michael Sutsko — —
Fariyal Khanbabi and Michael Sutsko, who were appointed Executive Directors on 8 September 2014 and 1 June 2015 respectively, have until 
8 September 2019 and 1 June 2020 to build their respective shareholdings up to the required levels.
Payments to past Directors 
In early 2015 the Committee considered remuneration arrangements relating to the Group Chief Executive role, after Roy Burton stepped down 
and Richard Stuckes was appointed, as detailed on page 45. For ease of reference, the remuneration arrangements agreed at that time are set out 
in this separate section of the report for Roy Burton and Richard Stuckes.
Roy Burton
Under the terms of a Settlement Agreement between Dialight Corporation, the Company and Roy Burton dated 5 March 2015, Roy Burton 
stepped down as President and Chief Executive Officer of Dialight Corporation and Group Chief Executive of the Company. Roy gave twelve 
months’ notice of his termination as an employee with Dialight Corporation, which would take effect on 2 March 2016. Under the terms of the 
Settlement Agreement it was agreed his base salary, being $571,200, and medical benefit would be paid throughout this notice period, even 
in the event of his disability or death. From 2 March 2015 until his death in July 2015, Roy Burton acted as special adviser to the Interim 
Group Chief Executive Officer of the Company. After his death his salary and medical benefit was paid to his family until 2 March 2016, 
pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement.
A bonus payment of $280,000 for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 was made to Roy Burton in March 2015. Details were included in 
the 2014 Remuneration report. No bonus was paid to Roy Burton in relation to 2015.
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 53
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Payments to past Directors continued
Roy Burton continued
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Roy Burton was deemed to be a good leaver which permitted awards or options granted to him to 
vest or become exercisable at the time of his termination of employment, or if earlier through death, subject to the rules of each plan. These share 
interests, shown in the tables on pages 50 to 52, remain outstanding as at 31 December 2015. No further awards were granted to Roy Burton in 
2015 under the share incentive plans operated by the Company. 
His outstanding 2013 PSP awards will lapse in April 2016, as the underlying performance criteria were not met. In 2016 it will be determined 
if his outstanding 2014 PSP awards will vest. His personal representatives have until 15 March 2016 to exercise his options granted under the 
International part of the Sharesave Plan to the extent of savings made. 
Richard Stuckes
Under the terms of a supplemental letter dated 31 January 2015, Richard Stuckes was paid a salary of £410,000 per annum and a car allowance 
of £17,500 per annum for his engagement as Interim Group Chief Executive. This was recommended by the Committee. Richard was not eligible 
to join the Company’s pension scheme and received no pension contributions or other allowances in lieu of this benefit.
When Richard Stuckes stepped down as Interim Group Chief Executive on 30 June 2015, he received £10,200 as payment in lieu of his three 
months’ notice as a Non-Executive Director. Further details of his remuneration are provided in the table on page 47.
In addition, Richard Stuckes was eligible to participate in the 2015 APBP to receive a maximum bonus of 110% of annual salary (pro-rated) subject 
to achievement of the following weighted objectives:
 • achieving a reported EBIT greater than £7.0m for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2015 (30% of target);
 • agreeing a plan to achieve a long-term reduction in the Group’s inventory, with a specific reduction target to 30 June 2015 (30% of target);
 • determining and implementing the most appropriate Dialight organisational structure to ensure clarity of responsibilities and reporting lines in 
the business, and strong governance control (20% of target); and
• making a recommendation to the Board regarding Dialight’s shorter-term manufacturing footprint (2015 requirements) and the Group’s strategy 
for developing its longer-term manufacturing footprint (20% of target).
In light of the Company’s performance during the first half of 2015 the Committee took the decision that no bonus was payable to Richard Stuckes.
Performance graph and table 
The graph below demonstrates the Company’s TSR performance over the past seven years relative to the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding 
investment trusts), the FTSE Small Cap Index and the FTSE All-share Electronics and Electrical Equipment Index. 
 Dialight plc
 FTSE Small Cap
 -200%
 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16 Source: Datastream
0%
 200%
400%
600%
800%
1,000%
 FTSE 250
  FTSE All-share Electronics 
and Electrical Equipment Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 54
Performance graph and table continued
The table below shows the Group Chief Executive’s “single figure” remuneration over the same seven-year period.
Year ended 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration ($’000) 745 2,854 4,170 3,843 1,564 1,153 523
Bonus outcome (% of max) 70 100 100 66.6 — 29 —
PSP vesting outcome (% of max) 58 100 100 100 100 — —
Note: The 2015 information relates to Michael Sutsko, who was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 July 2015. 
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive 
The following table sets out the change in remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2014 to 2015 compared with the average 
percentage change for employees as a whole. 
The main benefits provided include medical coverage and life insurance. There has been no change in the level of benefits provided 
to Group employees.
% change 2014–2015
Group Group
CEO employees
Salary 3% 3%
Bonus 0% 0%
Benefits n/a See above
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The chart below shows the total amount paid by the Company to its employees and its total distributions for 2015 and 2014.
Spend on pay £’m
32.6 m (2) %
Distributions £’m
3.2 m (35) %
32.6 3.2
33.2 4.9
’15 ’15
’14 ’14
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 55
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment
The dates on which Directors’ initial service agreements/letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows:
Commencement date Expiry date of current employment/service agreement or letter of appointment
Chairman and Executive Directors
Bill Ronald 14 May 2009 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. By letter dated 
12 September 2012, Bill Ronald was appointed Chairman of the Company 
for an initial term concluding at the 2016 AGM.
Fariyal Khanbabi* 8 September 2014 The agreement is terminable by the Company or by the Director on six months’ notice.
Michael Sutsko 1 June 2015 The agreement is terminable by the Company or by the Director on twelve months’ notice.
Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Bird 10 January 2013 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. 
David Blood 1 July 2015 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years.
Tracey Graham 10 January 2013 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. 
Robert Lambourne 26 May 2010 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. The appointment was 
extended for a further three years in July 2013.
* Fariyal Khanbabi’s service agreement dated 25 June 2014 was amended by side letter dated 8 September 2014 to reflect her new commencement date of 8 September 2014.
Post year end, Bill Ronald stepped down as Chairman on 25 January 2016. Wayne Edmunds was appointed Chairman of the Company on that 
date by letter of appointment dated 25 January 2016.
Implementation of policy in the 2016 financial year
Executive salaries and Non-Executive Director fees
As previously noted, the Committee agreed a 3% and a 5% pay increase in salary for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director 
respectively with effect from 1 January 2016 bringing their salaries to $576,000 and £259,350 respectively. 
The Committee decided that no increase in fees would be awarded to the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2016. Following 
the 2% increase in the Non-Executive Director base fee awarded with effect from 1 January 2015, that fee remains at £40,800 per annum. The 
£5,000 enhancements for chairing a Board Committee and acting as Senior Independent Director also remain the same. Upon his appointment 
in January 2016, the new Chairman receives an annual fee of £130,000.
Pensions
The Group Chief Executive will receive employer contributions equivalent to 15% of base salary into defined contribution arrangements 
operated by Dialight Corporation in the US. The Group Finance Director will receive a contribution of 15% of base salary into a defined 
contribution pension scheme.
APBP
The 2016 APBP will be based on targets linked primarily to EBIT performance.
In the Committee’s view the detailed performance targets for the upcoming financial year are commercially and price sensitive. The targets 
are based on profit projections for the year ahead, which would provide the Company’s competitors with a potential commercial advantage. 
The Committee will, however, provide full retrospective disclosure of the performance conditions and targets at the end of the 2016 financial year.
PSP 
Awards for 2016 will be made subject to meeting the EPS and TSR performance targets. At the time of production of the report these measures 
had not been formally approved by the Committee. The Committee has agreed an award limit of 125% for the Group Chief Executive and 100% 
for the Group Finance Director. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 56
Implementation of policy in the 2016 financial year continued
Code compliance 
The Committee considered the new provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code when it implemented the Company’s remuneration 
policy for 2015 and 2016. The Committee notes that, while the 2014 PSP, approved at the 2014 AGM, contains both malus and clawback 
provisions, the APBP only currently provides for clawback of deferred share awards. The Committee takes the view that, although malus 
provisions are not included in the APBP rules, it has the appropriate authority for dealing with any circumstances that might arise during 
the bonus period. The Committee will keep this under consideration during the current policy period and will consider including malus 
provisions in future policy reviews.
Further, under the 2014 PSP rules, the Committee has discretion to specify a holding period for shares received on the vesting of a conditional 
award or exercise of an option. During this holding period, the participant is not permitted to sell, charge or otherwise dispose of these shares 
except to the extent necessary to satisfy a tax liability. The Committee will continue to keep this under review in the light of regulatory 
developments in this area.
The Committee and advisers
The Committee
Whilst the Board remains responsible for the Group’s remuneration policy, the Committee has delegated authority in respect of the determination 
and review of remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and certain other Senior Executives. This includes the review of:
 • contract terms;
 • remuneration; and
• other benefits such as performance related bonus schemes, long-term incentives, pension rights and compensation payments.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the structure of the remuneration of the senior management group as defined by the Board.
Committee members
The individuals who served on the Committee during the year can be found on page 45. In addition, Richard Stuckes was a member during the 
year until 2 February 2015, when he was appointed Interim Group Chief Executive. All members who served throughout the year are considered 
independent in accordance with the Code. Since the year end, Bill Ronald stepped down from the Committee on 25 January 2016.
A copy of the terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Company’s website or on request from the Company Secretary at the 
Registered Office.
The Committee has access to the advice of the Group Chief Executive (Michael Sutsko) and the Company Secretary (who will not participate in 
any discussion concerning their own remuneration) as well as external advisers as required. 
External advice
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Committee consulted:
 • Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, for advice on the US settlement arrangements for Roy Burton for a fee of £10,000;
 • Kepler Associates, a brand of Mercer, for advice regarding Executive remuneration benchmarking, annual bonus plans and long-term incentive design 
for a fee of £29,000. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be 
found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com, acting for the Committee and the Company, taking instruction through the Company Secretary;
 • Clifford Chance LLP, for advice on the operation of the Group’s PSP, APBP and Sharesave Plan for a fee of £28,000; and
• Slaughter and May, for advice on the UK settlement arrangements for Roy Burton and the appointment of Richard Stuckes as Interim 
Group Chief Executive, as well as advice on the service agreements entered into with Michael Sutsko upon his appointment as Group Chief Executive 
and David Blood on his appointment as a Non-Executive Director. Slaughter and May also provides periodic corporate and treasury advice to 
Dialight. Their total fee for 2015 was £98,000.
The Committee retains the responsibility for the appointment of remuneration advisers and their associated fees. The Committee undertakes due 
diligence periodically to ensure that its advisers remain independent and that their advice is impartial and objective.
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 57
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Implementation of policy in the 2016 financial year continued
The Committee and advisers continued
Statement of shareholder voting
The table below shows the voting outcome at the 2015 AGM for the approval of the 2014 Remuneration report.
% of % of votes Votes
Votes* votes for against withheld
Remuneration report 72.4 27.6 571,231
* 16,573,749 ordinary shares were voted, representing 50.99% of the issued share capital.
Owing to a negative voting recommendation from one of the main investor advisory bodies at the time of the publication of the 2014 Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Committee Chair and Company Secretary consulted with the Group’s top ten shareholders in order to address any 
questions and concerns around the Group’s remuneration policy. The main area of concern was a lack of retrospective disclosure around the 2014 
bonus criteria. For the 2015 Bonus Plan we have ensured full disclosure of the performance targets in this report.
Dialight’s remuneration policy was last subject to a binding vote at the 2014 AGM, when 79.5% of shareholders voted in favour of the 
relevant resolution.
The Remuneration Committee report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Tracey Graham.
Appendix
Policy approval
Dialight’s remuneration policy was first published in the Dialight Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 and 
approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 16 April 2014, which was the date the policy became effective. Following the release of our 2013 
Annual Report and Accounts, we issued a clarification statement from the Chair of the Committee in respect of the utilisation of Listing Rule 9.4.2 
discretion under the policy clarifying that any use of that discretion would be restricted to assist only in the facilitation of buy-outs of previous 
employments when recruiting preferred candidates. It is our practice to replicate the remuneration policy in our Annual Report and Accounts. 
The only changes from last year’s printed report are purely administrative and deal with the updating of last year’s pagination references to the 
relevant cross references in this year’s Remuneration report and the updated remuneration scenarios for the Group Chief Executive. 
The text of the policy is set out below.
Directors’ remuneration policy 
Background and overview of the policy
Dialight’s policy on remuneration is clear. The Committee believes that the base salary and benefits for its Executive Directors should represent 
a fair return for employment but that the majority of remuneration should be variable and dependent on the continued success of the Company. 
It was agreed by the Committee in December 2010 that the practical application of this policy meant that the Group should aim to position base 
pay between the lower quartile and median with key roles and key performers positioned at the 50th percentile or market median. Total 
remuneration should also be targeted to be around the same levels.
It was with this in mind that the Committee conducted a review of the Company’s remuneration towards the end of 2012 that resulted in a number 
of changes that took effect in the year under review. This was primarily because it was felt that, whilst the existing policy and general structure 
of remuneration remained appropriate, a number of changes were required to ensure that the Company remained competitive and attractive 
to potential new executive talent as the Company looked to build on its strong historical performance.
A breakdown of all elements of Executive remuneration and their place in the Company’s remuneration policy can be found overleaf. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 58
Appendix continued
Explanatory detail for future remuneration policy table
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy 
detailed in this report. Such awards include awards made under the PSP prior to the approval of the new rules at the 2014 AGM.
Performance measures and targets
For the APBP, EBIT has been selected as the primary measure to provide a direct link to one of our KPIs and ensure that the bonus is self-financing. 
Any other measures will be agreed on an annual basis to ensure alignment with the Company’s strategy for the coming year. Targets are set on 
an annual basis taking into account the Company’s budget as well as external expectations for Dialight and the sector.
For the PSP, the Committee considers that TSR provides clear alignment between Executive Directors’ interests and those of shareholders and 
provides an objective measure of the Company’s success over time, while EPS provides good line of sight and helps focus participants on the 
Company’s financial performance. The TSR outperformance requirement is broadly in line with practice at other FTSE-listed companies, taking 
into account Dialight’s relative size. The Committee retains discretion to adjust this target for future awards should circumstances change. EPS 
targets will be reviewed and confirmed prior to each grant, taking account of the Company’s strategic plan, analyst estimates, historical 
performance and EPS performance ranges used at other FTSE companies. 
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an outstanding PSP award or bonus would not achieve its original purpose 
without alteration, the Committee has discretion to amend the targets, provided the new conditions are materially no less challenging than when 
originally imposed. Such discretion could be used to appropriately adjust for the impact of material acquisitions or disposals, or for exceptional 
and unforeseen events outside the control of the management team. 
Difference between Director remuneration policy and that for other employees
The remuneration policy for senior management is consistent with that for the Executive Directors, including participation in the Company’s APBP 
and PSP. Below this level employees participate in incentive schemes tailored to their role, as appropriate, and receive salaries and benefits which 
are consistent with local market practice.
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors (and other PSP participants) are required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in value to their 
annual PSP award (i.e. currently 100% of salary for the Group Chief Executive). Executives will have five years from their date of joining to build 
their shareholdings to the required level. Please refer to the table on page 52. 
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 59
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy
A breakdown of all elements of an Executive Director’s remuneration package and its place in the Company’s remuneration policy can be found below:
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To ensure that fixed pay represents 
a fair return for employment.
The Committee sets base salary 
with reference to relevant market 
data and an individual’s experience, 
responsibilities and performance.
Base salary is considered by the 
Committee on an individual’s 
appointment and then reviewed once 
a year or when an individual changes 
position or responsibilities.
When making a determination as 
to the appropriate remuneration, the 
Committee firstly considers pay and 
conditions for employees across the 
Group, the general performance of 
the Company and the wider economic 
environment and, where considered 
relevant, benchmarks the remuneration 
against a bespoke group of comparator 
companies incorporated in both the US 
and the UK (size adjusted on the basis 
of market cap and revenue).
Benchmarking is not the only driver in 
salary reviews. 
The Remuneration Committee’s normal 
policy in relation to salary of an 
Executive on appointment is to pay 
lower quartile against the market with 
an expectation of paying around 
median for the Company’s key roles 
and performers.
Detail of current salaries for the 
Executive Directors can be found on 
page 55.
In normal circumstances, increases 
to Executive Directors’ base salaries will 
be broadly in line with price inflation 
subject to those situations that for 
reasons including an expansion of 
duties or a change in role these are no 
longer appropriate and a larger increase 
is required in order for the Company to 
remain competitive. It is not envisaged 
that this will be a frequent occurrence.
n/a
Non-Executive Director fees
The Company sets fee levels 
necessary to attract and retain 
experienced and skilled 
Non-Executive Directors with 
the necessary experience  
and expertise to advise and 
assist with establishing and 
monitoring the strategic 
objectives of the Company. 
Non-Executive Director remuneration 
is determined by the Board within the 
limits set by the Articles. Fee levels take 
into account those paid for equivalent 
roles at companies of similar size 
and complexity.
The Board considers fee levels every 
other year.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive 
any bonus, do not participate in awards 
under the Company’s share plans and 
are not eligible to join the Company’s 
pension scheme.
The Company’s policy in relation to fees 
is to reflect the time commitment and 
responsibilities of the roles, normally by 
paying up to median level fees, 
compared to market, depending on the 
experience and background of the 
Non-Executive Directors.
Details of current Non-Executive 
Director fees can be found on page 55.
In normal circumstances, increases to 
fees will be broadly in line with price 
inflation, subject to cases of material 
misalignment with the market or a 
change in the complexity, responsibility 
or time commitment required to fulfil a 
Non-Executive Director role.
It remains important for the Board to 
have the necessary flexibility to step 
outside this general policy should the 
requirement be clear that a certain 
type of individual is required to conform 
with new governance requirements 
or legislation.
n/a Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 60
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
APBP
The APBP provides a direct link 
between the level of profit 
generated by Dialight and the 
amount of incentive received by 
the Executive.
The APBP is self-financing. 
If the threshold profit level 
is not achieved there will be 
no Company contribution.
The APBP directly supports 
the achievement of EBIT, one 
of the key financial KPIs of 
the Company.
There is an alignment of 
participants’ interests with 
shareholders as shareholders 
receive a minimum level of profit 
prior to any incentive payments 
to participants being made.
The policy of the Committee is to 
reward the Executive for profit growth 
using a combination of cash and shares, 
subject to the rules of the APBP.
Bonuses are paid though a mixture of 
cash and deferred shares, subject to the 
achievement of the agreed objectives. 
Where the Executive receives a 
deferred share award as well as a cash 
award, half of the deferred share 
element vests after two years with the 
balance vesting after three years, 
subject to continued employment with 
the Group.
The rules of the APBP allow for the 
clawback of deferred share awards prior 
to their vesting should the Committee 
take the decision that to allow such 
awards to vest would be contrary 
to the best interests of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Dividends are accrued until the vesting 
and release of shares subject to the 
award at which point they are paid to 
the participant.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 
175% of salary.
Threshold performance will deliver 
payouts of up to 20% of maximum, while 
payouts for target performance will be 
up to 75% of maximum. Payouts above 
target will be delivered in shares.
APBP objectives are set by the 
Committee at the beginning of 
each financial year following the 
finalisation of the budget for that 
year. The primary measure is 
Company EBIT, although other 
financial measures may be 
rewarded, as may additional 
specific objectives that can be 
triggered following satisfactory 
achievement of the primary 
EBIT targets.
The APBP allows a close  
tailoring by the Committee of the 
performance targets to the 
budget and performance of the 
Company for each year.
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy continued
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 61
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
PSP
The PSP provides direct 
alignment between the interests 
of shareholders and those of the 
Executive and the senior 
management of the business 
through its measurement of the 
Company’s share price and 
earnings performance over a 
three-year period.
The PSP provides a three-year 
incentive based on the achievement of 
performance conditions. 
A new set of PSP rules is being put to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM. 
Full details and a summary of these can 
be found in the Notice of AGM. Awards 
are normally made in the six-week 
period following the announcement by 
the Company of its results for any 
period. The initial value of an award 
granted in any one financial year will be 
determined by the Committee.
Awards made prior to and during 2014 
may be structured as conditional shares 
or nil-cost options with a seven-year 
exercise window from the date of 
vesting. For those awards made from 
2015 onwards the exercise window 
will reduce to two years.
On the adoption of new PSP rules at 
the AGM, the vesting of awards made 
pursuant to these rules may, at the 
discretion of the Committee, be 
deferred in whole or in part following 
the end of a three-year vesting period. 
The Company’s current policy is for 
awards to vest after three years.
The Committee has the power to 
authorise the payment of dividends 
or dividend equivalents under the 
rules of the PSP.
The new PSP rules contain provisions 
that allow for clawback and malus 
in respect of both vested and 
unvested awards.
Maximum value of award, under the 
new rules, is up to 150% of salary.
Participants in the PSP have historically 
been made awards of between 25% and 
100% of salary. The Executive Directors 
have generally received awards of 100% 
of salary. It is not envisaged that this 
will change.
Threshold vesting is at 25% 
of maximum.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject 
to continued employment and 
performance measures which are 
currently as follows:
 • 50% on EPS growth measured 
on a point-to-point basis over 
the three-year performance 
period; and
 • 50% on TSR relative to a relevant 
peer group over the three-year 
performance period; and
The Committee will review 
the performance measures, 
weightings and targets prior 
to each grant to ensure that 
they continue to be well 
aligned with the delivery 
of Company strategy.
Sharesave Plan
To provide a mechanism by 
which employees can save up 
to purchase shares at a discount 
to the prevailing market price 
on an annual basis, encouraging 
employee retention and 
engagement with the Company.
The Sharesave Plan will operate initially 
in the UK, the US and Mexico but may 
be introduced to other parts of the 
world in due course. It will be open 
to all employees of Dialight with 
one invitation to participate on an 
annual basis.
Employees will be able to save up to the 
maximum of the limits approved by 
HMRC from time to time (or local 
currency equivalent) for a total period 
of three years. At the beginning of each 
savings period employees will be granted 
options over shares in Dialight plc up 
to a maximum discount of 20% to the 
prevailing market price. The employees’ 
savings are then used to purchase and 
exercise these options at the end of 
three years.
There are no performance 
conditions attached to the 
Sharesave Plan.
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy continued Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 62
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Pension
The Company provides this 
benefits package in order to be 
competitive in the relevant 
market and to ensure its ability 
to recruit and retain Executives.
The Company operates the Roxboro 
UK Pension Scheme alongside a 401(k) 
and Supplemental Executive 
Retirement Plan (“SERP”) in the US.
There are no defined benefit schemes 
that are still open to new entrants or 
of which the Executive Directors 
are members.
Both employee and employer 
contributions are made to the relevant 
scheme. New Executive Directors are 
entitled to join the existing defined 
contribution scheme offering employer 
contributions of up to 15%.
Executive Directors receive 
contributions into defined contribution 
arrangements. The Group Chief 
Executive receives a cash payment in 
lieu of pension contribution. Further 
details of what has been paid during 
2015 can be found on page 47.
It is not anticipated that pension 
contributions (as a percentage of 
salary) will exceed the levels 
currently provided.
There are no performance 
conditions attached to Group 
pension arrangements.
Benefits
The approach of the Committee 
is that other benefits payable 
remain in line with market 
practice to ensure Dialight 
retains its ability to be competitive 
and remain attractive to 
prospective candidates. 
Executives receive benefits which 
consist primarily of the provision of 
a car allowance, life insurance and 
medical insurance, although may 
include any such benefits that the 
Committee deems appropriate.
Benefits vary by role and individual 
circumstances; eligibility and cost are 
reviewed periodically.
The Committee retains the discretion 
to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation) or 
in circumstances where factors 
outside the Company’s control have 
changed materially (e.g. increases 
in insurance premiums).
The value of all other benefits awarded 
to the Executive Directors can be found 
in the table on page 47.
There are no performance 
conditions attached to benefits.
Recruitment policy
Executive Directors will receive base salary in line with the normal policy, eligibility to participate in the APBP (maximum payout of 175% of salary), 
eligibility to participate in the PSP (with a maximum award of 150% salary under the proposed new rules in the policy table), pension contributions and 
other benefits in line with the normal policy. The policy provides for an entry point on salary between lower quartile and median and the Committee 
retains discretion to benchmark prospective salary against the relevant Index to ensure that correct consideration of all variables has been completed.
Should a situation present itself the Committee would review the impact of any decision to “buy out” a candidate from existing options/awards in 
his or her current employing company; in order to encourage recruitment, this would be done on a case-by-case basis. If the Committee 
determines that it is appropriate to do so it will apply the following approach:
The fair value of these incentives will be calculated taking into account the following:
 • the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive’s cessation of employment;
 • the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied; and
• any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value (“lapsed fair value”).
The Committee may then grant up to the same fair value as the lapsed fair value where possible under the Company’s incentive plans (subject to 
the annual limits under these plans). The Committee, however, retains the discretion to provide the lapsed fair value under specific arrangements 
in relation to the recruitment of the particular individual.
The maximum level of variable pay (excluding any buy-outs) offered to any new Executive Director would be 325% (comprising 175% in the APBP 
and 150% in the PSP). 
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy continued
Remuneration Committee report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 63
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Appendix continued
Recruitment policy continued
Listing Rule 9.4.2 may be utilised in order to provide the flexibility to the Committee to act outside of the Group’s existing plans to recruit 
preferred candidates. It is likely that this discretion would be restricted to assist only in the facilitation of buy-outs of previous emoluments. 
The approach to the recruitment of internal candidates would be similar but the Committee would continue to honour existing contractual 
commitments prior to any promotion.
For Non-Executive Directors, the Committee and the Company would seek to pay fees in line with the Company’s existing remuneration policy.
Remuneration scenarios
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only.
On-target performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
• 100% of salary paid in bonus 
(67% of maximum opportunity); and
• 25% of PSP award (25% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full 
payout of both short and long-term incentives.
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only.
On-target performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
• 75% of salary paid in bonus 
(75% of maximum opportunity); and
• 25% of PSP award (25% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full 
payout of both short and long-term incentives.
Group Chief Executive – Michael Sutsko
$2,243k 25% 44% 31%
$1,403k 10% 40% 50%
$703k 100% Minimum
On-target
Maximum
• Fixed
•  Short-term incentive
 
• 
Long-term incentive
Group Finance Director – Fariyal Khanbabi
£791k 31% 31% 38%
£544k 11% 34% 55%
£297k 100%
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
• Fixed
•  Short-term incentive
 
• 
Long-term incentive
The composition and value of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages at “minimum”, “on-target” and “maximum” scenarios are set out 
above. The policy of the Committee is to align Executive Directors’ interests with those of shareholders and to give the Executive Directors an 
incentive to perform at the highest levels. To achieve this it seeks to ensure that a significant proportion of the remuneration package varies with 
the financial performance of the Group and that targets are aligned with the Group’s stated business objectives.
Service contracts
Executive service contracts contain provisions that require up to twelve months’ notice of termination on either side. Existing service contracts 
reflect the fact that the Group Chief Executive is US based but contain similar provisions. Executive service contracts do not contain any 
provisions for payments outside the scope of those contained in the contract. 
Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement provided in formal letters of appointment, which contain three-month notice periods 
that are mutual. The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election by the shareholders at the 
Company’s AGM. Corporate governance
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 64
Remuneration Committee report continued
Appendix continued
Payment for loss of office
Notice periods
Executive Directors’ service contracts require up to twelve months’ notice to be given by Dialight in the event of termination. Both can be 
terminated with and without cause and require up to twelve months’ notice from either party.
Subject to his compliance with those restrictive covenants in the contract, the Group Chief Executive is entitled to a severance payment 
equivalent to a full year’s salary, continuing health care under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act benefits (“COBRA”) for 
the same period and an amount equal to the current annual cost of life insurance to Dialight if his employment is terminated without cause. 
This does not apply should he resign or be terminated with cause. 
The Group Finance Director’s contract provides for pay in lieu of notice but does not contain any additional compensation provisions. Both 
contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case. In determining 
any compensation it will take into account the best practice provisions of the Code and published guidance from recognised institutional investor 
bodies and will take legal advice on the Company’s liability to pay compensation and the appropriate amount. The Committee periodically considers 
what compensation commitments the Executive Directors’ contracts would entail in the event of early termination. There are no contractual 
arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
APBP
In the event of an Executive Director leaving Dialight before the end of a bonus year or prior to the payment of a bonus the Committee has 
discretion to allow them to be paid a portion of bonus relative to their point of leaving. This will be highly contingent on the manner of the 
Executive Director’s departure and whether they are classified as a “good leaver” pursuant to the rules of the APBP.
PSP
The PSP would operate in a similar way to the APBP. Assuming the Executive Director is classed as a “good leaver” the PSP allows for shares 
subject to awards to be released as soon as practicable after the later of the end of the performance period and the date of cessation, and the 
number of shares being reduced by such proportion as the proportion that the period from the date they ceased employment to the end of the 
relevant performance period bears to the relevant performance period, rounding down in each case to the nearest whole number of shares. 
Should either of the Executive Directors leave the Company in any other circumstances the Committee retains discretion to apply the same 
criteria and award a pro-rated amount of shares.
The new rules of the PSP that will be put forward for adoption at the AGM will contain the flexibility for the Committee to allow awards to vest earlier 
than above when an individual leaves. Awards will always be pro-rated subject to the exercise of discretion by the Committee and subject to the 
adoption of the new rules. The default position will be for awards to vest in line with the normal date of vesting rather than being released early.
The Committee retains discretion in the event of a change of control to release awards under the PSP. It is usual in this situation that awards would 
be pro-rated for time and performance subject to the discretion of the Committee.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Committee takes into account what the general rise in employee salaries was across the Company at the review date when considering 
changes to the remuneration of the Executive Directors. The Company has not expressly sought the views of employees when drawing up the 
Directors’ remuneration policy but has conducted a review of current job roles and salaries across the Group. 
Shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee consulted extensively with its top ten shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies, the ABI 
and the ISS, on the changes that were introduced in 2013.
The shareholder consultation process consisted of briefing letters, discussions and meetings in a number of cases with the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. Shareholders confirmed their support for the Company’s approach at the end of the consultation process.
Note: References in this replicated remuneration policy to the AGM at which the new set of PSP rules were put to shareholders for approval 
was the AGM held on 16 April 2014. In addition, certain references to pension entitlements and contractual arrangements of the Group 
Chief Executive refer to, and relate only to, Roy Burton, who was the Group Chief Executive at the time of the adoption of the remuneration 
policy in 2014, and have been deleted in this summary. Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 65
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Dialight plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 68 to 111. In our opinion: 
 • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
 • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union; 
 • the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards including 
FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK 
and Republic of Ireland; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the 
risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit 
were as follows: 
Goodwill (£11.7 million) 
Refer to page 39 (Audit Committee report), note 2 (accounting policy) 
and note 12 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – This is a key judgement area as adverse changes in 
assumptions, particularly relating to the forecasting of cash flows and 
discount rates could reduce the recoverable amount below the carrying 
amount. Specific risk factors identified include determining the projected 
cash flows relating to recent restructuring including a programme of 
product platform re-engineering, and a trial of outsourced manufacturing. 
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
 • evaluating the adequacy of the budgets and forecasts used in the 
value in use calculation by critically assessing the budgeting process 
and agreeing supporting evidence that forecasts are approved by the 
Board. This includes assessment of the adequacy of costs included in 
relation to the platform re-engineering and outsourcing trial through 
discussion with Group Executive management; 
 • performing an assessment of the discount rate by comparing to a 
client and industry specific discount rate calculated independently 
by our own valuation specialists; 
 • comparing the discounted cash flows to the market capitalisation 
of the Group; and 
 • assessing the robustness of the forecasts to changes in assumptions, 
including sales growth beyond the 2016 detailed forecast, long-term 
growth rates and discount rates in the model to assess the 
appropriateness of the carrying value of the goodwill. 
We also considered whether the Group’s disclosures in respect of the 
impairment review and the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment 
review to changes in key assumptions are appropriate. 
Inventory valuation (£26.9 million) 
Refer to page 39 (Audit Committee Report), note 2 (accounting policy) 
and note 15 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – The Group operates in an industry whereby developments 
in product technology may result in inventory becoming slow moving 
or obsolete. The Group is also undergoing a program of product 
platform re-engineering which will result in changes to stock lines. 
These factors, in turn, may mean that inventory cannot be sold or sales 
prices are discounted to less than the inventory carrying value. 
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
 • challenging the appropriateness of the Group’s methodology for 
determining its inventory provision in the light of our understanding 
of the business and industry knowledge, coupled with our 
understanding of the ageing and nature of its inventory, and 
the plans for platform re-engineering; 
 • testing the carrying value of inventory by comparing the carrying 
value to latest sales invoice for a sample of items to assess whether 
those items were held at the lower of cost or net realisable value; and 
• challenging the quantum and classification of costs disclosed 
as non-underlying with Group Executive management and the 
Audit Committee. 
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of the judgements used in determining the carrying value of inventory.
Revenue recognition 
Refer to page 39 (Audit Committee report), note 2 (accounting policy) 
and note 4 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – There is a risk that transactions completed just before 
the year end could be incorrectly recorded due to the high volume 
of transactions close to the year-end reporting deadline. The Group 
also has a number of customers who have non-standard contractual 
terms meaning that the risks and rewards transfer at different timings 
(such as on dispatch, on receipt at port of destination and on receipt 
by customer) with the result that there is an increased risk that revenue 
may not be recognised in the correct period for such sales occurring 
near to year end. 
Independent auditors’ report
T o the members of Dialight plc only Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 66
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
T o the members of Dialight plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Revenue recognition continued
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
• challenging the recognition of revenue for a sample of items from 
either side of the financial year end by reference to the identified 
trigger event for revenue, when contractually the customer takes 
on the risks and rewards of ownership, and tracing back to third 
party carrier documentation and customer agreements. 
Development costs (£6.0 million) 
Refer to page 39 (Audit Committee Report), note 2 (accounting policy) 
and note 12 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – Judgement is required in the initial capitalisation of 
development projects and there is a risk of misstatement if the criteria 
for capitalisation are incorrectly applied. There is further judgement 
required around the ongoing viability of the capitalised projects and 
a resulting risk of impairment. 
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
 • for a sample of projects capitalised during the year, and projects held 
as at year end, evaluating whether the project costs were capitalised 
in line with accounting standards, including challenge of the feasibility 
of the project through discussion with engineering staff, and agreement 
of the existence of a budget and forecast sales information; 
 • examining expensed research and development costs to assess 
whether there are any other significant items recorded during the 
period that should have been capitalised to intangible assets;
 • performing an impairment review for a sample of projects by 
challenging forecast sales data with reference to actual sales 
achieved during the year versus budget for the current year, and 
challenging the assessment of the viability of projects through 
discussion with finance and engineering management; 
 • challenging the quantum and classification of costs disclosed as 
non-underlying items with the group executive management and 
Audit Committee; and
• we also considered whether the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of development costs and amortisation are appropriate. 
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 
of our audit 
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 
£0.9 million (2014: £0.9 million), determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group revenue of which it represents 0.6% (2014: Group 
profit before taxation of which it represented 6%). We consider that 
revenue is appropriate to use as a benchmark for materiality as revenue 
is a more stable measure year on year than Group profit before tax. 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 
identified misstatements exceeding £45,000, in addition to other 
audit misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Of the Group’s ten reporting components, we subject four to audits 
for Group reporting purposes and two to specified risk-focused audit 
procedures. The latter were not individually financially significant 
enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did 
present specific individual risks, principally around inventory valuation, 
that needed to be addressed. These Group procedures covered 98% 
of total Group revenue; 93% of total Group profits and losses that make 
up Group loss before taxation; and 100% of total Group assets.
The remaining 2% of total Group revenue and 7% of total Group profits 
and losses that make up Group profit before taxation are represented 
by four reporting components, none of which individually represented 
more than 2% of any of total Group revenue, or 6% of total Group profits 
and losses that make up Group profit before taxation. For these 
remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group 
level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks 
of material misstatement within these. 
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit team 
approved the component materialities, which ranged from £0.5 million 
to £0.6 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the 
Group across the components. The work on one full scope audit 
component was performed by a component auditor, the work on the 
two components subject to specified risk-focused procedures was 
performed by component auditors and the work on all remaining 
components was performed by the Group audit team. The Group audit 
team visited three component locations in UK and USA to perform the 
audit work. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
 • the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 • the Directors’ viability statement on page 21, concerning the principal 
risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors’ assessment 
and expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over the three 
years to 31 December 2018; or 
• the disclosures in note 2(b) of the financial statements concerning 
the use of the going concern basis of accounting.  Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 67
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued
6. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the Annual Report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a 
material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. In 
particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 • we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement that 
they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken 
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy; or 
• the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
 • the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 • certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 • the Directors’ statement, set out on page 21, in relation to going 
concern and longer-term viability; and 
• the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 31 relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website 
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely 
to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 
on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to 
provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we 
have undertaken and the basis of our opinions. 
Graham Neale, Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP 
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham B4 6GH 
8 March 2016 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 68
Financial statements
Twelve months ended
31 December 2015
Twelve months ended
31 December 2014
Note
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Revenue 4 161.4 — 161.4 159.8 — 159.8
Cost of sales 5 (105.2) (6.0) (111.2) (99.2) (2.8) (102.0)
Gross profit 5 56.2 (6.0) 50.2 60.6 (2.8) 57.8
Distribution costs 5 (30.7) — (30.7) (28.6) — (28.6)
Administrative expenses 5 (19.4) (3.5) (22.9) (13.9) 0.5 (13.4)
Profit/(loss) from operating activities 4 6.1 (9.5) (3.4) 18.1 (2.3) 15.8
Financial income 8 — — — — — —
Financial expense 8 (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Net financing expense 8 (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 4 5.7 (9.6) (3.9) 17.9 (2.4) 15.5
Income tax (expense)/credit 9 (1.3) 3.2 1.9 (6.0) — (6.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year 4 4.4 (6.4) (2.0) 11.9 (2.4) 9.5
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to:
Equity owners of the Company (2.0) 9.5
Non-controlling interests — —
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.0) 9.5
Earnings per share
Basic 18 (6.4p) 29.4p
Diluted 18 (6.3p) 29.2p
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
The definitions of cost of sales, gross profit, distribution costs and administrative expenses have been changed. Prior year numbers have been 
amended to be consistent with the current year (see note 5).
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 69
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.7
Income tax on exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (0.4) (0.3)
1.8 2.4
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability 0.7 (1.0)
Income tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability (0.1) 0.2
0.6 (0.8)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 2.4 1.6
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.0) 9.5
Total comprehensive income for the year 0.4 11.1
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 0.4 11.1
Non-controlling interests — —
Total comprehensive income for the year 0.4 11.1
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 70
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
Share
capital
£’m
Merger
reserve
£’m
Translation
reserve
£’m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’m
Retained
earnings
£’m
Total
£’m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’m
Total
equity
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2015 0.6 1.4 3.2 2.2 65.5 72.9 (0.1) 72.8
Loss — — — — (2.0) (2.0) — (2.0)
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of tax — — 1.8 — — 1.8 — 1.8
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability, 
net of tax 19 — — — — 0.6 0.6 — 0.6
Total other comprehensive income — — 1.8 — 0.6 2.4 — 2.4
Total comprehensive income for the year — — 1.8 — (1.4) 0.4 — 0.4
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Share-based payments, net of tax 7,9 — — — — 0.1 0.1 — 0.1
Dividends 17 — — — — (3.2) (3.2) — (3.2)
Total contributions by and distributions 
to owners — — — — (3.1) (3.1) — (3.1)
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.6 1.4 5.0 2.2 61.0 70.2 (0.1) 70.1
Balance at 1 January 2014 0.6 1.4 0.8 2.2 61.8 66.8 (0.1) 66.7
Profit — — — — 9.5 9.5 — 9.5
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of tax — — 2.4 — — 2.4 — 2.4
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability, 
net of tax 19 — — — — (0.8) (0.8) — (0.8)
Total other comprehensive income — — 2.4 — (0.8) 1.6 — 1.6
Total comprehensive income for the year — — 2.4 — 8.7 11.1 — 11.1
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Share-based payments, net of tax 7,9 — — — — (0.1) (0.1) — (0.1)
Dividends 17 — — — — (4.9) (4.9) — (4.9)
Total contributions by and distributions 
to owners — — — — (5.0) (5.0) — (5.0)
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.6 1.4 3.2 2.2 65.5 72.9 (0.1) 72.8
At 31 December 2015 the number of shares held by the Group through the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) was 
9,606 (2014: 9,606). The market value of these shares at 31 December 2015 was £43,227 (2014: £77,809). Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 71
Note
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 16.1 15.2
Intangible assets 12 20.0 21.0
Deferred tax assets 14 0.1 0.2
Total non-current assets 36.2 36.4
Inventories 15 26.9 32.4
Trade and other receivables 16 35.5 36.9
Cash and cash equivalents 22 5.5 7.9
Total current assets 67.9 77.2
Total assets 104.1 113.6
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (22.9) (26.2)
Provisions 20 (0.8) (0.7)
Contingent consideration 29 — (0.3)
Tax liabilities (0.3) (4.6)
Borrowings 13 (9.3) (7.3)
Total current liabilities (33.3) (39.1)
Employee benefits 19 (0.1) (1.2)
Provisions 20 (0.6) (0.5)
Total non-current liabilities (0.7) (1.7)
Total liabilities (34.0) (40.8)
Net assets 70.1 72.8
Equity
Issued share capital 17 0.6 0.6
Merger reserve 17 1.4 1.4
Other reserves 7.2 5.4
Retained earnings 61.0 65.5
70.2 72.9
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Total equity 70.1 72.8
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
Fariyal Khanbabi, Group Finance Director
8 March 2016
Company number: 2486024
Consolidated statement of total financial position
At 31 December 2015 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 72
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Operating activities
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.0) 9.5
Adjustments for:
Financial income 8 — —
Financial expense 8 0.5 0.3
Income tax expense 9 (1.9) 6.0
Share-based payments 0.1 0.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 2.8 2.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 3.1 2.3
Impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill 1.0 1.3
Contingent consideration 29 — (3.1)
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 3.6 19.0
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 6.4 (6.9)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 3.1 (7.4)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (4.1) 4.0
Increase in provisions 20 0.2 0.2
Pension contributions in excess of the income statement 19 (0.5) (0.3)
Cash generated from operations 8.7 8.6
Income taxes paid (3.9) (3.1)
Interest paid 8 (0.4) (0.2)
Net cash generated from operating activities 4.4 5.3
Investing activities
Contingent consideration 29 (0.3) —
Capital expenditure 11 (3.3) (3.7)
Capitalised expenditure on development 12 (2.5) (3.5)
Net cash used in investing activities (6.1) (7.2)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 17 (3.2) (4.8)
Drawdown of bank facility 2.4 7.6
Payment of upfront loan facility costs — (0.3)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (0.8) 2.5
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (2.5) 0.6
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 7.9 7.1
Effect of exchange rates on cash held 0.1 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 22 5.5 7.9 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 73
1. Reporting entity
Dialight plc is a company domiciled in England. The address of the Company’s Registered Office is Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the “Group”).
2. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (“IFRSs”). The Company has elected to present its parent company financial statements in accordance with 
FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”.
(b) Consolidated basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in existence for a period no shorter than 
twelve months from the date of this report. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements.
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements. The process of preparing the Group’s 
financial statements inevitably requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future and the resulting accounting 
estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts included in these consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Significant
Goodwill (see note 12)
Each year the Group reviews the carrying values of its goodwill balances by carrying out impairment tests. These tests require estimates and 
judgements to be made of the value in use of its CGUs which are dependent on key assumptions such as future cash flows and future growth 
rates of the CGUs, and discount rates.
Uncertainties associated with the current economic environment or the Group’s ability to carry out its strategic plans could impact key 
assumptions made as part of this review. Where these uncertainties present a material risk to the carrying value of goodwill, sensitivity analysis 
is carried out on the relevant CGUs.
Development and patent costs (see note 12)
The Group capitalises development costs and patents provided they meet all criteria set out in the respective accounting policy. Costs are only capitalised 
where management is satisfied as to the ultimate commercial viability of the projects concerned based on available information. The capitalised costs are 
amortised over the useful economic life, which is determined based on the reasonable commercial prospects for the resultant product.
Inventory provision (see note 15)
The Group operates in an environment of technological change, presenting the risk of obsolete inventory. Inventory is reviewed by operational 
and financial management on a regular basis, product by product, and the level of provision required is assessed against historic and forecast 
use for that product. The actual level of provision required may be materially higher or lower than expected.
Other
Warranty (see note 20)
The Group offers performance warranties on many of its products. A provision is made for the expected costs of future warranty claims relating 
to past product sales. This provision is estimated based on historic trends for returns, internal knowledge of product performance characteristics 
and the expected costs of remedying warranty-returned products. This information is reviewed by management regularly. Actual returns may be 
materially higher or lower than these estimates, which may have a material impact on the adequacy of the provision for warranty claims.
Tax (see note 9)
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 74
Financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and 
have been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred 
to the Group. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
 • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with 
a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s 
interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business 
combinations were capitalised as part of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
As part of its transition to IFRSs, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 January 2003. In 
respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework, 
UK GAAP.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements 
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements.
(b) Foreign currency translation
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
Since the transition date, resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Group’s translation reserve. 
Such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. Foreign currency 
transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
(c) Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 75
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(e) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.
(f) Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings    16–50 years
Plant, equipment and vehicles  3–10 years
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, 
from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents and trademarks  4 years
Development costs   3–5 years
Order book   1–2 years
Customer relationships  7 years
Technology   7 years
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial recognition, 
see note 3(a).
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses until disposal or termination of the previously 
acquired business when the profit or loss on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the gross amount at current exchange 
rates of any such goodwill through the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and is tested at least annually for impairment. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(h) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding 
is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product and process is technically and commercially 
viable, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends and has sufficient resources to complete the development and to use or sell 
the asset. The expenditure capitalised includes direct cost of material, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development 
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses.
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill 
and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. A CGU is the smallest identifiable 
asset group that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other assets and groups. Impairment losses are recognised in profit and 
loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and 
then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 76
Financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(i) Impairment continued
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed 
at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
A financial asset, in particular the carrying value of trade receivables, is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one 
or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. Any impairment losses are recognised through 
the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion 
and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Items are valued using the first in, 
first out method. When inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised as an expense in the period in which the 
related revenue is recognised. Provision for write-down to net realisable value and losses of inventories is recognised as an expense in the period 
in which the write-down or loss occurs.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part 
of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of borrowings.
(l) Share capital
(i) Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by members.
(ii)  When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased by the ESOT, the amount of the consideration paid is recognised as a deduction 
from equity.
(iii)  Under the terms of the PSP and deferred bonus scheme, dividends accrue on shares not yet vested; however, in the event that the shares 
lapse or are forfeited then the dividends will not be paid and the accrual is reversed.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
(ii) Defined benefit pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit 
that employees have earned for their service in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. 
The calculation is performed by an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a 
potential asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds 
from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any 
applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and 
the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest) are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. The Group determines the 
net interest expense/(income) on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined 
benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability/(asset), taking into account any changes in the net 
defined benefit liability/(asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses 
related to defined benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss 
on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan 
when the settlement occurs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 77
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(m) Employee benefits continued
(iii) Share-based payments and deferred bonus transactions
The PSP allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the award granted is recognised as an employee expense 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the performance period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
The fair value of the grants is measured using Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the grants were made. The amount recognised as an expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures resulting from failures to meet non-market 
conditions. The share-based payments are equity-settled.
Key Group employees are awarded shares in the Company under the Annual Performance Bonus Plan. The fair value of the award granted 
is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over 
the performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
(o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at their amortised cost less any impairment losses. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If any such indication exists the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated, being the greater of their net selling price and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessment of the time value of the money and risks specific to the asset. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
An impairment loss in respect of trade and other receivables is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the 
recoverable amount.
(p) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at amortised cost.
(q) Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade 
discounts, volume rebates and product returns. Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods supplied and is recognised in the income statement 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the external customers in line with contractual arrangements and 
agreed shipping terms and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefit associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group.
(r) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(ii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest receivable, interest payable, borrowings, interest on pension assets and liabilities, foreign exchange gains 
and losses, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement and unwinding of discount.
(s) Income tax expense
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates 
to items recognised directly in equity. 
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 78
Financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(s) Income tax expense continued
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited 
to profit and loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend 
is recognised.
(t) Changes in accounting policies
Except for the changes below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies set out in this note to all periods presented in these 
consolidated financial statements. 
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other standards, 
with a date of initial application of 1 January 2015. There was no material impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
• Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19. 
The nature and effect of these changes are explained below.
Adoption of new and revised standards
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2016 and 
have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
(u) Measurement of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets 
and liabilities.
The Group has an established control framework, appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group, with respect to the measurement of fair 
values. When measuring the fair value of an asset or liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised 
into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
If the inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair 
value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the 
entire measurement.
4. Operating segments
As part of the Strategic Review of the business announced on 27 October 2015, the reportable operating segments have been reduced to two. 
These segments have been identified based on the internal information that is supplied regularly to the Group’s chief operating decision maker for the 
purposes of assessing performance and allocating resources. The chief operating decision maker is considered to be the Group Chief Executive.
The two reportable operating segments are:
 • Lighting, which develops, manufactures and supplies highly efficient LED lighting solutions for hazardous and industrial applications in which 
Lighting performance is critical and includes anti-collision obstruction lighting; and
 • Signals and Components, which develops, manufactures and supplies status indication components for electronics OEMs, together with niche 
industrial and automotive electronic components and highly efficient LED signalling solutions for the traffic and signals markets.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 79
4. Operating segments continued
There is no inter-segment revenue.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods. Segment gross profit is revenue less the costs of materials, labour, production and freight that are directly 
attributable to a segment. Overheads comprise operations management, selling costs plus corporate costs which include share-based payments. 
There are no individual customers representing more than 10% of revenue.
Reportable segments
2015
Lighting
£’m
Signals and
Components
£’m
Total
£’m
Revenue 120.6 40.8 161.4
Gross profit 48.3 7.9 56.2
Overheads (41.5) (5.2) (46.7)
Segment results 6.8 2.7 9.5
Unallocated expenses (3.4)
Underlying operating profit 6.1
Non-underlying expense (9.5)
Operating loss (3.4)
Net financing expense (0.5)
Loss before tax (3.9)
Income tax expense 1.9
Loss after tax (2.0)
2014
Lighting
£’m
Signals and
Components
£’m
Total
£’m
Revenue 116.9 42.9 159.8
Gross profit 50.8 9.8 60.6
Overheads (35.4) (4.3) (39.7)
Segment results 15.4 5.5 20.9
Unallocated expenses (2.8)
Underlying operating profit 18.1
Non-underlying expense (2.3)
Operating profit 15.8
Net financing expense (0.3)
Profit before tax 15.5
Income tax expense (6.0)
Profit after tax 9.5
Other segmental data
2015 2014
Lighting
£’m
Signals and
Components
£’m
Total
£’m
Lighting
£’m
Signals and 
Components
£’m
Total
£’m
Depreciation 2.2 0.6 2.8 2.0 0.5 2.5
Amortisation 2.5 0.6 3.1 1.9 0.4 2.3
Impairment losses on intangible asset write-down 0.7 0.3 1.0 1.1 0.2 1.3 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 80
Financial statements
4. Operating segments continued
Geographical segments
The Lighting and Signals and Components segments are managed on a worldwide basis but operate in four principal geographic areas: North America, 
UK, Europe and Rest of World. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods.
Sales revenue by geographical market
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
North America 107.6 96.3
UK 11.8 16.5
Rest of Europe 15.6 23.9
Rest of World 26.4 23.1
161.4 159.8
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit or loss
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Total profit for reportable segments 9.5 20.9
Unallocated amounts:
Overheads (3.4) (2.8)
Non-underlying expense (9.5) (2.3)
Net financing expense (0.5) (0.3)
Consolidated (loss)/profit before tax (3.9) 15.5
5. Change in definition of costs
As reported 2014 Adjustments Revised 2014
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Revenue 159.8 — 159.8 — — — 159.8 — 159.8
Cost of sales (112.6) (2.8) (115.4) 13.4 — 13.4 (99.2) (2.8) (102.0)
Gross profit 47.2 (2.8) 44.4 13.4 — 13.4 60.6 (2.8) 57.8
Distribution costs (19.8) — (19.8) (8.8) — (8.8) (28.6) — (28.6)
Administrative expenses (9.3) 0.5 (8.8) (4.6) — (4.6) (13.9) 0.5 (13.4)
Profit/(loss) from operating activities 18.1 (2.3) 15.8 — — — 18.1 (2.3) 15.8
The definitions of cost of sales, gross profit, distribution and administrative expenses have been changed in the current year. In order to be 
consistent, the prior year numbers have been adjusted to be on a comparable basis.
Cost of sales previously included costs related to third party sales costs, operations management and development and engineering. The third party 
sales costs are now included in distribution costs and the operations management and development costs are included in administrative expenses.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 81
6. Non-underlying income/(expense)
From time to time, the Group incurs costs and earns income that is non-recurring in nature or that is otherwise considered to not be reflective 
of the underlying performance of the business. In the assessment of performance of the business units of the Group, management examines 
underlying performance, which removes the impact of non-underlying costs and income. 
The table below presents the elements of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within cost of sales:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Inventory costs (6.0) (2.8)
Non-underlying costs recorded cost of sales (6.0) (2.8)
The table below presents the elements of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within administrative expenses:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Intangible asset write-down (1.0) (1.3)
Employee severance and restructuring costs (1.8) (0.7)
Executive Director replacement costs (0.8) (0.4)
Settlement of legal case 0.5 —
Other (0.4) (0.2)
Contingent consideration — 3.1
Non-underlying costs recorded in administrative expenses (3.5) 0.5
In the prior year, a detailed review of the risk of inventory obsolescence was initiated. The review identified that the pace of product change has 
increased in the Lighting and Obstruction business with the introduction of control based lighting and the new Vigilant range. The Board 
concluded that a strict ageing over-ride should be added in addition to the existing usage formula. As a result the Group incurred a one-off charge 
of £2.8m. As the nature of this charge is non-recurring it was treated as a non-underlying expense.
Following on from the change of provisioning policy in the prior year, there has been a strong focus on tightening the internal controls and 
improving the procedures around inventory. A full inventory count was carried out at the key manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Roxboro, 
detailed inventory usability analysis was prepared and obsolete stock was disposed of. Inventory procurement was enhanced with the appointment 
of a Global Commodity Director and inventory control was improved with the appointment of a new Finance Director for North America. The impact 
of this was that certain non-recurring costs including stock losses and procurement errors were identified. In the Strategic Review on 27 October 2015, 
it was announced that the Group is embarking on a programme of product platform re-engineering and a trial of outsourced manufacturing. This 
will transform the production process and will reduce the requirement to hold multiple variations of components and accelerate obsolescence on 
some existing materials. The existing review was broadened to encompass the impact on inventory of these new factors. The outcome of the 
review was that total costs of £6.0m were identified and the Directors are of the opinion that in order to reflect the true performance of the 
business these costs be treated as non-underlying costs.
The Strategic Review also triggered a review of the useful lives of existing capitalised development and patent costs. This resulted in an 
acceleration in the amortisation of capitalised cost of £1.0m and is considered a non-recurring cost. In the prior year, intangible assets of £0.8m 
relating to the Airinet business were written down in full as they were considered to have no future economic benefits. Other intangible assets of 
£0.5m were also written off in the prior year as their carrying value was judged to be impaired. 
In order to manage the cost base, the Group announced a formal headcount reduction programme on 7 August 2015. This was in addition to 
£0.8m of severance costs incurred in the first half. The total impact was a charge of £1.8m for the year. In the prior year, the Group incurred 
redundancy and termination costs mainly relating to US and European operations and the closure of its Japanese operation. 
The Group incurred significant costs in the recruitment of a new CEO and the incremental costs of an interim CEO. In order to present a more accurate 
reflection of the underlying business costs, the excess costs over and above those relating to one CEO have been classified as non-underlying. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 82
Financial statements
6. Non-underlying income/(expense) continued
The Group received a net settlement of £0.5m in relation to a claim against a former employee. The settlement is not in the normal course 
of business and has been classified as non-underlying.
The contingent consideration credit relates to an agreement in the prior year to reduce the amount payable in relation to the acquisition of 
Airinet Inc in June 2012. 
The table below presents the components of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within finance income/(expense):
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Net interest on defined benefit liability (0.1) —
Change in fair value of contingent consideration — (0.1)
Non-underlying costs recorded in finance expense (0.1) (0.1)
7. Personnel expenses
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Wages and salaries 32.6 33.2
Social security contributions 3.6 3.0
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.1 0.2
Contributions to defined contribution plans 1.2 1.0
Total charge for defined benefit plans 0.1 0.1
37.6 37.5
The average number of employees by geographical location was:
2015
Number
2014
Number
UK 208 148
US and Mexico 1,699 1,463
Rest of World 205 329
2,112 1,940
In 2015 the Group employed an average of 1,311 direct staff (2014: 1,389) and 801 indirect staff (2014: 551).
8. Net financing (expense)/income
Recognised in profit and loss
Year ending 31 December 2015 Year ending 31 December 2014
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Interest income on bank deposits — — — — — —
Net interest on defined benefit liability — (0.1) (0.1) — — —
— (0.1) (0.1) — — —
Interest expense on financial liabilities (0.4) — (0.4) (0.2) — (0.2)
Change in fair value of contingent consideration — — — — (0.1) (0.1)
(0.4) — (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Net financing expense recognised in the consolidated income statement (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 83
9. Income tax (income)/expense
Current tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Current tax (income)/expense
Current year (0.7) 6.1
Adjustment for prior years (0.9) (0.3)
(1.6) 5.8
Deferred tax (income)/expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (0.4) 0.3
Adjustment for prior years — (0.1)
Reduction in tax rate 0.1 —
Recognition of previously unrecognised losses — —
Change in recognised deductible timing differences — —
Income tax (income)/expense (1.9) 6.0
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2015
%
2015
£’m
2014
%
2014
£’m
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.0) 9.5
Total income tax (income)/expense (1.9) 6.0
(Loss)/profit excluding income tax (3.9) 15.5
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate (19.6) (0.8) 21.5 3.3
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 12.8 0.5 10.3 1.6
Reduction in tax rate (7.9) (0.3) 1.3 0.2
Non-deductible expenses 17.1 0.7 4.5 0.7
Current year losses for which no deferred tax is recognised (1.8) (0.1) 1.3 0.2
Recognition of tax effect of previously unrecognised losses (7.7) (0.3) — —
Adjustment for prior years (24.3) (0.9) (2.6) (0.4)
Changes in recognised deductible timing differences — — — —
Research and development credits (3.4) (0.1) (0.6) (0.1)
Other (12.7) (0.5) 3.0 0.5
(47.5) (1.9) 38.7 6.0
The effective tax rate credit for the Group is 47.5% which is an improvement on the prior year tax charge of 38.7%. The tax rate has been positively 
impacted by losses allowed in the year that were previously considered uncertain and the recognition of previously unrecocognised deferred tax 
assets. The prior year adjustment arises mainly in relation to the ability to claim accelerated capital allowances in the US. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 84
Financial statements
9. Income tax expense continued
Current tax expense continued
Tax recognised directly in equity
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Employee benefits (0.1) —
Other (0.4) 0.2
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 20% (effective from 1 April 2015). Further changes to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in 
the Chancellor’s Budget on 8 July 2015. These include reductions to the main rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. These 
rate changes, which were enacted before the Company's year end, will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The Group’s 
effective rate will continue to be impacted by the tax rates enacted in the various jurisdictions in which it trades. The deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 
at 31 December 2015 have been calculated based on a rate of 18%. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) have not been recognised in respect of tax 
losses amounting to £0.3m because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available in order to utilise them.
10. (Loss)/profit for the year
(Loss)/profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Research and development costs
Expensed as incurred 4.0 2.7
Amortisation charge 2.1 1.5
Total research and development costs 6.1 4.2
Depreciation of fixed assets 2.8 2.5
Amortisation of customer relationships 0.3 0.3
Amortisation of technology — 0.1
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 1.0 1.3
Operating leases – property 1.4 1.1
Operating leases – other 0.1 0.1
Auditors’ remuneration
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
Other services 0.1 0.2
Pension advisory services in respect of Group pension — —
0.3 0.4
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 85
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£’m
Plant,
equipment
and vehicles
£’m
Total
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 5.4 35.0 40.4
Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.9 2.0
Additions 0.3 3.4 3.7
Disposals — — —
At 31 December 2014 5.8 40.3 46.1
At 1 January 2015 5.8 40.3 46.1
Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.6 1.7
Additions 0.1 3.2 3.3
Disposals — — —
At 31 December 2015 6.0 45.1 51.1
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2014 (3.0) (24.0) (27.0)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.3) (1.4)
Charge for year (0.2) (2.3) (2.5)
Disposals — — —
At 31 December 2014 (3.3) (27.6) (30.9)
At 1 January 2015 (3.3) (27.6) (30.9)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.2) (1.3)
Charge for year (0.2) (2.6) (2.8)
Disposals — — —
At 31 December 2015 (3.6) (31.4) (35.0)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 2.4 13.7 16.1
At 31 December 2014 2.5 12.7 15.2
At 1 January 2014 2.4 11.0 13.4 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 86
Financial statements
12. Intangible assets
Concessions,
patents,
licences and
trademarks
£’m
Goodwill
£’m
Order
book and
customer
relationships
£’m
Technology
£’m
Development
costs
£’m
Total
£’m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2014 3.2 12.1 2.1 0.6 10.6 28.6
Additions arising from internal developments 0.9 — — — 2.6 3.5
Effects of foreign exchange movement — (0.2) — — 0.4 0.2
Balance at 31 December 2014 4.1 11.9 2.1 0.6 13.6 32.3
Balance at 1 January 2015 4.1 11.9 2.1 0.6 13.6 32.3
Additions arising from internal developments 1.0 — — — 1.5 2.5
Effects of foreign exchange movement 0.1 — — — 0.4 0.5
Balance at 31 December 2015 5.2 11.9 2.1 0.6 15.5 35.3
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2014 (1.3) (0.2) (1.2) (0.1) (4.7) (7.5)
Amortisation for the period (0.4) — (0.3) (0.1) (1.5) (2.3)
Impairment (0.5) — — (0.4) (0.4) (1.3)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at 31 December 2014 (2.2) (0.2) (1.5) (0.6) (6.8) (11.3)
Balance at 1 January 2015 (2.2) (0.2) (1.5) (0.6) (6.8) (11.3)
Amortisation for the period (0.7) — (0.3) — (2.1) (3.1)
Impairment (0.3) — — — (0.7) (1.0)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — — 0.1 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2015 (3.2) (0.2) (1.8) (0.6) (9.5) (15.3)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 2.0 11.7 0.3 — 6.0 20.0
At 31 December 2014 1.9 11.7 0.6 — 6.8 21.0
At 1 January 2014 1.9 11.9 0.9 0.5 5.9 21.1
The amortisation charge for the development costs, concessions, patents, licences and trademarks and order book and customer relationships 
is shown within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Lighting and Signals and Components segments
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination. 
CGUs are identified geographically and at a product segment level. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
UK Lighting 2.3 2.3
European Traffic 3.5 3.8
European Obstruction 1.3 1.3
Australian Lighting 0.1 0.1
US Lighting 4.5 4.2
11.7 11.7
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 87
12. Intangible assets continued
Lighting and Signals and Components segments continued
The Group tests goodwill (at the CGU level) annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of a number of factors that impact on the 
time value of money and any risk specific to the CGU. The rate includes management’s assessment of a normal level of debt to equity ratio 
within similar companies in its sector.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent strategic forecasts approved by management covering a three-year period. 
Management has arrived at the three-year plan based upon certain assumptions derived from a combination of internal assessment and research 
carried out by external consultants who specialise in areas of the Group’s business and their knowledge of the business. The key assumptions within 
the three-year forecasts are revenue growth (which varies depending on the CGU’s product groups and the markets addressed) and gross profit, 
which is based on management’s best estimate of material, labour and production cost trends and manufacturing efficiencies. Cash flows in years 
four and five are extrapolated using similar growth rates to the first three years. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated 
using estimated growth rates of between 0% and 1%.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash flows, 
the discount rates selected and expected long-term growth rates.
The rates used to discount the forecast cash flow for the CGUs were 11.0% (2014: 10.5%) for Lighting and 13.0% (2014: 12.5%) for Signals and 
Components.
The growth rates management has applied in the value in use calculations for each of the CGUs over the five-year period vary due to the nature 
of the products, industries and countries in which the CGU operates.
Changes in these assumptions could reduce the recoverable amount below carrying amount.
No such risks were identified in the current year. We carried out sensitivity analyses on our European Traffic CGU using discount rates ranging 
from 11.0% to 15.0% and growth rates ranging from 0.0% to -10.0% while still maintaining headroom.
13. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
2015 2014
£’m £’m
Unsecured borrowings falling due within one year 9.5 7.6
Upfront loan facility costs (0.2) (0.3)
9.3 7.3
On 30 April 2014, the Company signed a four-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc. Under the terms 
of the facility, the Group also has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further facilities may be made available by HSBC under the current terms 
to support significant investment opportunities that may arise. At 31 December 2015, £9.5m was drawn on the facility. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 88
Financial statements
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 — — (0.6) 0.3 (0.6)
Intangible assets — — (2.8) (2.8) (2.8) (2.8)
Employee benefits 0.6 0.6 — — 0.6 0.6
Provisions 2.4 3.0 — — 2.4 3.0
Other items 0.1 — (0.5) — (0.4) —
Tax assets/(liabilities) 3.4 3.6 (3.3) (3.4) 0.1 0.2
Set off of tax (3.3) (3.4) 3.3 3.4 — —
Net tax assets 0.1 0.2 — — 0.1 0.2
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses in entities expected to generate future taxable profits. Deferred tax 
assets have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £0.3m because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available 
in order to utilise them.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred taxation liabilities have not been 
recognised is £nil (2014: £nil).
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Property,
plant and
equipment
£’m
Intangible
assets
£’m
Employee
benefits
£’m
Provisions
£’m
Other
short-term
timing
differences
£’m
Total
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 (1.0) (2.3) 0.7 1.5 1.5 0.4
Recognised in income 0.4 (0.5) (0.1) 1.5 (1.3) —
Recognised in equity — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at 31 December 2014 (0.6) (2.8) 0.6 3.0 — 0.2
Balance at 1 January 2015 (0.6) (2.8) 0.6 3.0 — 0.2
Recognised in income 0.9 — — (0.6) 0.1 0.4
Recognised in equity — — — — (0.5) (0.5)
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.3 (2.8) 0.6 2.4 (0.4) 0.1
15. Inventories
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Raw materials and consumables 17.1 19.6
Work in progress 2.5 4.1
Finished goods 7.3 8.7
26.9 32.4
Inventories to the value of £70.0m (2014: £69.0m) were recognised as expenses in the year. During the year, the inventory write-downs totalled 
£7.3m. The write-downs are included in the income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 89
16. Trade and other receivables
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Trade receivables 30.7 34.0
Other non-trade receivables 2.1 1.6
Income tax recoverable 1.4 —
Prepayments and accrued income 1.3 1.3
35.5 36.9
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 23.
17. Capital and reserves
Share capital
2015
Number
2015
£’m
2014
Number
2014
£’m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,503,258 0.6 32,503,258 0.6
During the year, no shares were issued (2014: 143,366 ordinary shares at par). The ordinary shares issued in the prior year have the same rights 
as the other shares in issue.
Ordinary shares
Issued share capital
2015
Number
2014
Number
In issue at 1 January 32,503,258 32,359,892
Shares issued — 143,366
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 32,503,258 32,503,258
Merger reserve
On acquiring Lumidrives Limited in 2006 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance 
with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and hence £546,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
On acquiring BTI in 2010 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance with 
Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and hence £903,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences from 1 January 2004 arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations for the Company.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of “B” preference shares redeemed since the capital reorganisation in 2005.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date no dividends were proposed by the Directors and there are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Nil pence per ordinary share (2014: 9.8 pence) — 3.2 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 90
Financial statements
17. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends continued
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Final – 9.8 pence (2014: 9.5 pence) per ordinary share 3.2 3.1
Interim – nil pence (2014: 5.2 pence) per ordinary share — 1.7
3.2 4.8
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred share scheme but not yet vested — 0.1
Total (amount shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity) 3.2 4.9
18. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 31 December 2015 was based on a loss for the year of £2.0m (2014: profit of £9.5m) and the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2015 of 32,503,258 (2014: 32,479,364).
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 31 December 2015 was based on a loss for the year of £2.0m (2014: profit of £9.5m) and the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2015 of 32,731,992 (2014: 32,675,772) calculated 
as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2015
’000
2014
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 32,503 32,479
Effect of share options in issue 229 197
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 32,732 32,676
Underlying earnings per share is highlighted below as the Directors consider that this measurement of earnings gives valuable information 
on the performance of the Group.
2015
Per share
2014
Per share
Basic earnings (6.4p) 29.4p
Underlying basic earnings* 13.3p 36.8p
Diluted earnings (6.3p) 29.2p
Underlying diluted earnings* 13.2p 36.6p
* Underlying earnings excludes non-underlying items as explained in note 6 and allocates tax at the appropriate rate (see note 9).
19. Employee benefits
Defined benefit pension obligations
The Group makes contributions to two defined benefit plans (referred to below as Plan A and Plan B) to provide benefits for employees upon 
retirement. Both plans are closed to new members and future accrual. The plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, interest 
rate risk and investment risk. Both plans are final salary defined benefit schemes and are administered by separate funds that are legally separate 
from the Group. Trustees include independent and Company-appointed individuals. The Trustees of the plans are required by law to act in the 
best interests of the plan participants and are responsible for setting certain policies (e.g. investment) of the funds.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 91
19. Employee benefits continued
Defined benefit pension obligations continued
The Company is required to agree a Schedule of Contributions with the Trustees of the Funds following a valuation which must be carried out at 
least once every three years. The last valuation was completed in 2014. The Company expects to pay contributions of £0.5m in respect of the 
Fund in the year to 31 December 2016. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 16 years. There is no effect on 
recognition of the net defined benefit surplus as a result of the asset ceiling.
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net defined benefit liability/(asset) 
and its components.
Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets
Net defined benefit
liability/(asset)
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Balance at 1 January 25.2 22.8 (24.0) (22.4) 1.2 0.4
Included in profit or loss
Administration costs — — 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Interest cost/(income) 0.8 1.0 (0.8) (1.0) — —
0.8 1.0 (0.7) (0.9) 0.1 0.1
Included in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements (gain)/loss:
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from:
– demographic assumptions (0.3) (0.1) — — (0.3) (0.1)
– financial assumptions (1.0) 2.5 — — (1.0) 2.5
– experience adjustment — 0.1 — — — 0.1
– return on plan assets excluding interest income — — 0.6 (1.5) 0.6 (1.5)
(1.3) 2.5 0.6 (1.5) (0.7) 1.0
Other
Contributions paid by the employer — — (0.5) (0.3) (0.5) (0.3)
Benefits paid (1.0) (1.1) 1.0 1.1 — —
(1.0) (1.1) 0.5 0.8 (0.5) (0.3)
Balance at 31 December 23.7 25.2 (23.6) (24.0) 0.1 1.2
Represented by:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Net defined benefit asset (Plan A) (0.1) —
Net defined benefit liability (Plan B) 0.2 1.2
0.1 1.2 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 92
Financial statements
19. Employee benefits continued
Defined benefit pension obligations continued
Plan assets consist of the following:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Total Total
Equities 10.7 10.8
Bonds and gilts 12.4 12.9
Cash 0.5 0.3
23.6 24.0
All equity securities and government bonds have quoted prices in active markets. 
Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
% per annum
2015 2014
Discount rate at 31 December 3.70 3.40
Future salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.20 3.20
Inflation – RPI 3.20 3.20
Inflation – CPI 2.30 2.30
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables. The current longevities underlying the 
values of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date were as follows:
2015 2014
Plan A Plan B Plan A Plan B
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
Males 22.1 22.1 22.3 22.3
Females 24.5 24.5 24.7 24.7
Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 45
Males 23.8 23.8 24.0 24.0
Females 26.4 26.4 26.7 26.7
Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have 
affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
Defined benefit obligation
Increase 
£’m
Decrease 
£’m
Discount rate (0.5% movement) (1.5) 1.6
Inflation (0.5% movement) 1.5 (1.4)
Life expectancy (+/–1 year) 0.7 (0.7)
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation of the 
sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 93
19. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP.
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below. The award 
was split into two components, one of which was based on the EPS performance of the Group, and the other was based on the Group’s total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) performance.
Date of award
Number
of awards
at the
beginning
of the year
Number
of awards
granted
during
the year
Number
of awards
vested
during
the year
Number
of awards
forfeited
during
the year
Number
of awards
at the
year end
Fair value
pence per
share
Vesting
period
Maturity
date
April 2012 44,800 — — (6,813) 37,987 684 3 years Apr 2015
April 2013 (EPS) 22,869 — — (5,682) 17,187 1,291 3 years Apr 2016
April 2013 (TSR) 22,869 — — (5,682) 17,187 707 3 years Apr 2016
April 2014 (EPS) 39,094 — — (16,672) 22,422 886 3 years Apr 2017
April 2014 (TSR) 39,094 — — (16,672) 22,422 377 3 years Apr 2017
September 2014 (EPS) 19,999 — — (6,162) 13,837 904 3 years Sep 2017
September 2014 (TSR) 19,999 — — (6,162) 13,837 395 3 years Sep 2017
April 2015 (EPS) — 42,365 — (7,430) 34,935 802 3 years Apr 2018
April 2015 (TSR) — 42,365 — (7,430) 34,935 349 3 years Apr 2018
August 2015 (EPS) — 35,822 — — 35,822 545 3 years Aug 2018
August 2015 (TSR) — 35,822 — — 35,822 147 3 years Aug 2018
208,724 156,374 — (78,705) 286,393
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 47 to 54.
The 2015 awards linked to EPS have been valued using the Black-Scholes model and those linked to TSR have been valued using the 
Monte Carlo model.
The following key assumptions and inputs have been used in the calculation of the fair values:
April 2015 
EPS and 
TSR award
August 2015
 EPS and 
TSR award
Share price £8.02 £5.45
Exercise price £nil £nil
Expected volatility 35% 45%
Award life 3 years 3 years
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) 24% 11%
The employee expense in 2015 was £0.1m (2014: £0.2m) (see note 7). Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 94
Financial statements
19. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Save As You Earn (“SAYE”)
In the prior year, the Group initiated an all-employee UK Sharesave Plan and established equivalent arrangements in the UK, the US and Mexico. 
Under the terms of the SAYE scheme employees can save up to a limit of £250 per month or local currency equivalent. Awards under the scheme 
were made at a 20% discount to the closing mid market price on the date of invitation, vesting over a three-year period. There are no performance 
conditions attached to the SAYE scheme.
2015
 scheme
2014
 scheme
Outstanding at 1 January 2015 — 58,377
Granted during the year 73,183 —
Forfeited during the year — (28,080)
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 73,183 30,297
The options outstanding at the period end have a weighted average remaining contractual life of three years.
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation 
were as follows:
Grant date
22 September
2015
18 September
2014
Share price at grant date 6.02 8.97
Exercise price 4.82 7.18
Expected volatility 37% 37%
Number of employees 79 109
Shares under option 73,183 58,377
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Option life 3 years 3 years
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2% 2%
Fair value per option 2.12 3.16
20. Provisions
Warranty
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2015 1.2
Effects of foreign exchange movement —
Provisions made during the year 1.0
Provisions used during the year (0.8)
Balance at 31 December 2015 1.4
The warranty provision relates to sales made over the past five years. The provision has been estimated based on historical warranty data with 
similar products. The Group expects to settle the majority of the liability over the next two to three years.
Warranty
2015
£’m
Warranty
2014
£’m
Due within one year 0.8 0.7
Due between one and five years 0.6 0.5
1.4 1.2
The provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 95
21. Trade and other payables
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Trade payables 12.9 18.3
Other taxes and social security 0.6 0.6
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 9.4 7.3
22.9 26.2
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 23.
22. Cash and cash equivalents
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of total financial position 5.5 7.9
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 5.5 7.9
23. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s 
risk policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks 
and adherence to limits.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews 
the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations by not paying the receivables due.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
Operationally the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Each new customer is analysed 
individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. 
The Group’s review includes external ratings when available and, in some cases, bank references. Purchase limits are set for customers. 
Customers that do not meet the benchmark creditworthiness may transact, with the Group, only on a prepayment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. 
Impairment losses are determined having taken into account special customer circumstances and financial position, together with Group 
information about general payment trends. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 96
Financial statements
23. Financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Exposure to credit risk
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2015
£’m
Impairment
2015
£’m
Gross
2014
£’m
Impairment
2014
£’m
Not past due 23.0 — 26.2 —
Past due 0–30 days 5.4 — 6.7 —
Past due 31–120 days 1.0 — 0.7 —
Past due 121–365 days 0.1 — 0.4 —
More than one year 1.3 0.1 0.1 0.1
Total 30.8 0.1 34.1 0.1
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2015 0.1
Effects of foreign exchange —
Utilisation of provision (0.2)
Provision created 0.2
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.1
The allowance in respect of trade receivables is used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount 
owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the financial asset directly. The Directors have reviewed 
the carrying value of receivables more than one year old and concluded that no further impairment is required.
Other non-trade receivables of £2.1m (2014: £1.6m) are not past due and have no impairment.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income. The objective 
of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage exposure to interest rate risk by utilising short-term fixed rate borrowings. At 31 December 2015, the Group has 
drawn £9.5m against its revolving credit facility.
Foreign currency risk
Exposure to currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than each subsidiary’s functional 
currency. The currencies giving rise to risk are primarily the Euro and US Dollar.
Where possible the Group uses natural hedging within the Group to hedge the majority of its foreign currency risk. Natural hedging is the 
mechanism whereby the cash inflows in a particular currency are matched to the cash outflows in that currency at the same business or different 
Group company. The Group has borrowing facilities in US Dollars in order to match the currency of the Group’s major market. Foreign exchange 
contracts may be taken out to manage exposures that are not mitigated through natural hedging.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than UK Sterling, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept 
to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 97
23. Financial risk management continued
Market risk continued
Foreign currency risk continued
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
2015
$’m
2015
€’m
2014
$’m
2014
€’m
Trade receivables 0.7 3.7 0.6 4.2
Currency cash 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.8
Trade payables (1.1) (0.3) (1.2) (0.8)
Gross balance sheet exposure 0.2 3.7 (0.4) 4.2
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
2015
Average
rate
2015
At balance
 sheet
date
2014
Average
rate
2014
At balance 
sheet
date
US Dollar 1.53 1.48 1.63 1.56
Euro 1.38 1.36 1.24 1.29
Mexican Peso 24.28 25.66 21.89 22.92
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have 
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking 
damage to the Group’s reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk
For non-derivative financial liabilities the Group’s exposure relates principally to trade and other payables and borrowings.
Trade and other payables arise in the normal course of business and there are no unusual or onerous terms and conditions.
The following are contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements:
31 December 2015
Carrying
amount
£’m
Contractual
cash flow
£’m
2 months
or less
£’m
2–12
months
£’m
1–2 years
£’m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 22.9 (22.9) (22.9) — —
Borrowings 9.3 (9.3) (9.3) — —
32.2 (32.2) (32.2) — —
31 December 2014
Carrying
amount
£’m
Contractual
cash flows
£’m
2 months 
or less
£’m
2–12
months
£’m
1–2 years
£’m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 26.2 (26.2) (26.2) — —
Contingent consideration 0.3 (0.3) (0.3) — —
Borrowings 7.3 (7.3) (7.3) — —
33.8 (33.8) (33.8) — — Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 98
Financial statements
23. Financial risk management continued
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2015 this totalled £70.1m (2014: £72.8m).
The Group’s dividend policy was reviewed during the year. As disclosed at the Strategic Review on 27 October 2015, no dividend will be 
considered until the full year results of 2016 are available. 
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the 
longer term, however, permanent changes, in particular in foreign exchange rates, would have an impact on equity value and consolidation earnings.
At 31 December 2015 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and US Dollar against UK Sterling would have 
increased the Group’s loss before tax by approximately £0.1m for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: reduced the profit before tax by 
£0.2m), and would have had no impact on the Group’s equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: reduction of £0.3m).
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying
amount
2015
£’m
Fair value
2015
£’m
Carrying
amount
2014
£’m
Fair value
2014
£’m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 5.5 5.5 7.9 7.9
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables 35.5 35.5 36.9 36.9
Total financial assets 41.0 41.0 44.8 44.8
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (22.9) (22.9) (26.2) (26.2)
Contingent consideration — — (0.3) (0.3)
Borrowings (9.3) (9.3) (7.3) (7.3)
Total financial liabilities (32.2) (32.2) (33.8) (33.8)
Net financial assets 8.8 8.8 11.0 11.0
Details of the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table are set out in note 3(u).
24. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Less than one year 1.3 1.4
Between one and five years 2.8 3.2
More than five years 0.3 0.6
4.4 5.2
Of the £4.4m (2014: £5.2m), £4.3m (2014: £5.0m) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment.
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the Companies Act 2006.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 99
25. Capital commitments
Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in the accounts were:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Contracted 0.1 0.3
26. Contingencies
During 2011 the Roxboro UK Pension Fund (the “Scheme”) was closed to future accrual. This Scheme is included within the pension liability 
detailed in note 19. As part of the negotiations regarding closure, the Company agreed to grant a parent company guarantee in respect of all 
present and future obligations and liabilities (whether actual or contingent and whether owed jointly or severally and in any capacity whatsoever) 
of Dialight Europe Limited, the principal employer, to make payments in the Scheme up to a maximum amount equal to the entire aggregate 
liability, on the date on which any liability under the guarantee arises, of every employer (within the meaning set out in Section 318 of the 
Pensions Act 2004 and regulations made thereunder) in relation to the Scheme, were a debt under Section 75(2) of the Pensions Act 1995 
to have become due on that date. No provision has been made in relation to this contingency. 
27. Related parties
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dialight plc. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated 
on consolidation. Intra-group transactions are priced on an arm’s length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control less than 1% of the Company.
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel. 
Key management personnel compensation comprised the following:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Short-term employee benefits 1.2 0.8
Post-retirement benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments — 0.1
1.3 1.0
The aggregate of remuneration and amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes of the highest paid Director was £0.3m (2014: £0.6m), 
and pension contributions of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) were made to a money purchase scheme on his behalf. During the year, the highest paid 
Director received 71,644 shares under a long-term incentive scheme. 
2015 2014
Number of Directors accruing benefits under:
– Money purchase schemes 2 3
– Defined benefit schemes — —
Number of Directors who exercised share options — 1
Number of Directors in respect of whose qualifying services shares were received or receivable under 
long-term incentive schemes 2 3 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 100
Financial statements
28. Subsidiaries
The companies listed below are all subsidiaries of the Dialight Group as at 31 December 2015. Those companies stated in table a) below are those, 
in the opinion of Directors, which principally affect the revenue, profit or assets of the Dialight Group. The remaining companies that comprise the 
Dialight Group are set out in table b) below and are included in compliance with Statutory Instrument No. 980 The Companies, Partnerships and 
Groups (Account and Reports) Regulations 2015. The investment is held directly by the Company except for those companies indicated by an *. 
(a) Trading companies
Name Percentage owned Country of incorporation Principal activity
Dialight Corporation* 100% US Manufacture and sale of Lighting and Signals and Components products
Dialight Europe Limited 100% England and Wales Manufacture and sale of Lighting and Signals and Components products
Dialight Garufo GmbH*
1
100% Germany Sale of Lighting and Signals and Components products
Dialight BTI A/S
2
100% Denmark Manufacture and sale of Lighting products
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* 75% Australia Sale of Lighting products
Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd* 75% Singapore Sale of Lighting products
Dialight Penang Sdn. Bhd.* 100% Malaysia Sale of Lighting products
Dialight Do Brasil Tecnologia Ltda* 75% Brazil Sale of Lighting products
1 Dialight Garufo GmbH changed its name to Dialight GmbH on 28 January 2016.
2 Dialight BTI A/S changed its name to Dialight A/S on 1 January 2016.
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited, Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd and Dialight Do Brasil Tecnologia Led Ltda are all owned 75% by the Group and there 
are non-controlling interests of 25%. The total loss for the period attributable to non-controlling interests is less than £0.1m (2014: less than £0.1m) 
and their share of equity is £0.1m (2014: £0.1m).
(b) Other companies
Name Percentage owned Country of incorporation Principal activity
Belling Lee Limited 100% England and Wales Intermediary holding company
Dialight Disconnect Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading
Dialight Lumidrives Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Optino Limited* 100% England and Wales Dormant
PED Limited* 100% England and Wales Dormant
Roxboro Analytical Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading
Roxboro Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading
Roxboro Overseas Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Roxboro Technology 100% England and Wales Dormant
Shildon Controls Limited* 100% England and Wales Non-trading
Shildon Investments Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading/intermediary holding company
The Roxboro Trust Company Limited 100% England and Wales Dormant
The Roxboro UK Pension Trustee Limited* 50% England and Wales Corporate pension fund trustee
WGL (2003) Limited 100% England and Wales Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Zoomclose Limited* 100% England and Wales Dormant
Dialight de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.* 100% Mexico Non-trading
Dialight Latin America, S. de R.L. de C.V.* 100% Mexico Non-trading
CRL Components, Inc* 100% US Dormant
Roxboro Analytical Inc* 100% US Non-trading
Roxboro Holdings Inc* 100% US Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Roxboro Metrology Inc* 100% US Non-trading
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 101
29. Contingent consideration
2015 2014
Balance at 1 January 0.3 3.3
Change in fair value (note 8) — 0.1
Effects of foreign exchange movement — —
Reduction due to settlement (note 6) — (3.1)
Payment in the year (0.3) —
Balance at 31 December — 0.3
The contingent consideration related to the purchase of Airinet, Inc. in 2012. 
30. Post balance sheet events
The Group is restructuring its manufacturing footprint in order to reduce excess capacity and overhead. As a result, the Group has announced 
on 8 March 2016 that it will close its UK manufacturing plant and that it also has signed a manufacturing partnership with Sanmina. 
The non-underlying costs in 2016 relating to these and other strategic initiatives are expected to be around £12m, with cumulative cost savings 
of approximately £12m over the next three years. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 102
Financial statements
Note
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 34 — —
Investments 35 17.4 17.3
Debtors 39 25.6 25.0
43.0 42.3
Current assets
Debtors 39 16.8 16.6
Cash 0.5 0.6
17.3 17.2
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 40 (8.0) (6.3)
Borrowings 41 (9.3) (7.3)
Current liabilities (17.3) (13.6)
Net current assets — 3.6
Total assets less current liabilities 43.0 45.9
Net assets excluding pension fund liability 43.0 45.9
Pension fund asset 45 0.2 —
Net assets including pension fund liability 43.2 45.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 43, 44 0.6 0.6
Capital redemption reserve 44 2.2 2.2
Other reserve 44 2.0 1.9
Profit and loss account 44 38.4 41.2
Equity shareholder funds 43.2 45.9
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
Fariyal Khanbabi, Group Finance Director
Company balance sheet (prepared under FRS 102)
At 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 103
31. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and to the preceding year.
(a) General information and basis of accounting 
Dialight plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the Registered Office is given on the inside front 
cover of this Annual Report and Accounts. The Company is a holding company that manages the other trading subsidiaries of the Dialight Group.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (“FRS 102”) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The prior year financial statements were restated for material adjustments on adoption of FRS 102 in the current year. For more information see note 33. 
The functional currency of Dialight plc is considered to be UK Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the Company operates. 
(b) Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period no shorter than 
twelve months from the date of this report. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
(c) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed 
assets at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, 
which is between three and ten years.
(d) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. 
(i) Financial assets and liabilities
All financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at transaction price (including transaction costs), except for those financial assets classified 
as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value (which is normally the transaction price excluding transaction costs), 
unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction. If an arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, the financial asset or financial 
liability is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest for a similar debt instrument.
The Company’s debt instruments are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Debt instruments that are classified as payable or receivable within one year on initial recognition and which meet the above conditions are 
measured at the undiscounted amount of the cash or other consideration expected to be paid or received, net of impairment.
(ii) Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are measured at cost less impairment. For investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration, 
including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference to the nominal value of the shares issued plus fair value 
of other consideration. Any premium is ignored. 
(iii) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of cash or other resources received or receivable, net of direct issue costs.
(e) Impairment of assets
Assets, other than those measured at fair value, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. If there is objective 
evidence of impairment, an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 104
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
31. Accounting policies continued
(f) Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions 
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. 
Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from 
the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements. 
Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded 
as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
(g) Employee benefits
The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. The assets of all arrangements are held separately from the assets 
of the Company in independently administered funds. The amount charged against profits in respect of defined contribution arrangements 
is the contributions payable to those arrangements in the accounting period.
For the defined benefit arrangements the assets are measured at market values. The liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, 
discounting at the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of the appropriate term and currency to the liability.
The defined benefit scheme surplus or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Other long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of the benefit obligation at the reporting date.
(h) Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
(i) Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
(j) Share-based payment
The Company grants to its employees rights to its equity instruments of Dialight plc. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to receive the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured using a pricing model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual of share awards that 
vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. Where the Company grants awards over its own shares 
to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based 
payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
32. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 30, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
The Directors consider that there are no critical accounting judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty within the Company’s individual 
financial statements. Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 105
33. Explanation of transition to FRS 102
This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial statements under Financial Reporting Standard 102 (“FRS 102”) issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition. The last financial statements under previous UK 
GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the date of transition to FRS 102 was therefore 1 January 2014. As a consequence of 
adopting FRS 102, a number of accounting policies have changed to comply with that standard, although none have had a material impact on the 
recognition or measurement of balances within these financial statements.
There are therefore no reconciling items within either equity or profit and loss between balances reported under previous UK GAAP and balances 
reported under FRS 102 for the year ended 31 December 2014.
34. Fixed assets
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 0.2
Additions —
At 31 December 2015 0.2
Depreciation
At 1 January 2015 (0.2)
Charge for the year —
At 31 December 2015 (0.2)
Net book value at 31 December 2015 — 
Net book value at 31 December 2014 —
No assets of the Company are held under finance leases.
35. Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 22.1
Share-based payment 0.1
At 31 December 2015 22.2
Provisions
At 1 January 2015 (4.8)
Profit and loss account —
At 31 December 2015 (4.8)
Net book value at 31 December 2015 17.4
Net book value at 31 December 2014 17.3
In accordance with Section 26 of FRS 102 “Share-based Payment” the cost of investment is increased to reflect the cost of share options awarded 
to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries of the Company is provided in note 28 on page 100. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 106
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
36. Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments. The overall framework for managing risk and the 
interest rate risk that affects the Company is discussed in note 23. 
All carrying values are considered to be fair values. 
A sensitivity analysis has been carried out in note 23 and is considered to not be materially different from the results for the Company only. 
Foreign currency risk
The Company holds monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than UK Sterling. The majority of these relate to inter-company balances which 
provide a natural hedge elsewhere in the Group. 
The Company's exposure to foreign currency risk to third parties was as follows based on notional amounts:
2015
$’m
2015
£’m
2014
$’m
2014
£’m
Currency cash 0.1 — — —
Other creditors — — — (0.5)
Gross balance sheet exposure 0.1 — — (0.5)
The exchange rates applied during the year are disclosed in note 23. 
Liquidity risk
The Company’s exposure to liquidity risk relates to its borrowings. This is discussed in note 23. 
37. Share-based payments
Share-based payments are described in full in note 19. 
PSP
The PSP relating to employees of the Company is disclosed on page 51 in the Remuneration report.
Save as you earn (“SAYE”)
The options under the SAYE relating to employees of the Company are as follows:
2015
Scheme
2014
Scheme
Outstanding at 1 January — 171
Granted during the year 257 —
Forfeited during the year — (157)
Outstanding at 31 December 257 14
Details on assumptions and inputs used in the calculation of share-based payment amounts are disclosed in note 19.
38. Key management personnel
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Company’s key management personnel. Details of their compensation is disclosed in note 27. Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 107
39. Debtors
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 42.1 41.1
Other debtors 0.2 0.4
Deferred tax asset (note 42) 0.1 0.1
42.4 41.6
Less non-current portion: amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (25.6) (25.0)
Current portion 16.8 16.6
40. Creditors
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 6.6 5.3
Accruals and deferred income 1.4 1.0
8.0 6.3
41. Borrowings
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Unsecured borrowings falling due within one year 9.5 7.6
Upfront loan facility costs (0.2) (0.3)
9.3 7.3
On 30 April 2014, the Company signed a four-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc. Under the terms 
of the facility, the Group also has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further facilities may be made available by HSBC under the current terms to 
support significant investment opportunities that may arise. Amongst the covenants attached to the facility are requirements related to the net 
debt to EBITDA ratio of the Group and interest cover. During the year and subsequently, the Group has operated well within those covenants.
At 31 December, £9.5m was drawn on the facility (2014: £7.6m).
42. Deferred tax assets
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
At 1 January 0.1 0.1
Prior year adjustment — —
Profit and loss account — —
Recognised in equity — —
At 31 December 0.1 0.1
An analysis of deferred tax is as follows:
Capital allowances — —
Short-term timing differences 0.1 0.1
Debtors (see note 39) 0.1 0.1
Pension liability (see note 45) — —
0.1 0.1 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 108
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015
43. Called up share capital
2015
Number
2015
£’m
2014
Number
2014
£’m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,503,258 0.6 32,503,258 0.6
Shares classified as liabilities — —
Shares classified in shareholder funds 0.6 0.6
0.6 0.6
During the year, no shares were issued. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights as the other shares in issue.
44. Capital and reserves
Share
capital
£’m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’m
Other
reserve 
capital
contribution
£’m
Profit
and loss
account
£’m
Total
£’m
At 1 January 2015 0.6 2.2 1.9 41.2 45.9
Profit for the year — — — 0.5 0.5
Dividends to shareholders — — — (3.2) (3.2)
Share-based payments — — 0.1 — 0.1
Actuarial loss on pension plan — — — (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.6 2.2 2.0 38.4 43.2
At 31 December 2015 the number of shares held by the Group through the ESOT was 9,606 ordinary shares (2014: 9,606). The market value of 
these shares at 31 December 2015 was £43,227 (2014: £77,809).
The profit for the year was £0.5m (2014: £0.6m). Net expenses recognised directly in equity relate to the net actuarial gain (net of deferred tax) 
arising in respect of the pension scheme. 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 38.5 41.3
Pension reserve (0.1) (0.1)
Profit and loss reserve 38.4 41.2
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Profit for the year 0.5 0.6
Dividends paid (3.2) (4.8)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP — (0.1)
Actuarial loss on pension plan (0.1) (0.1)
Share-based payments, net of tax 0.1 0.2
Net reduction to shareholder funds (2.7) (4.2)
Opening shareholder funds 45.9 50.1
Closing shareholder funds 43.2 45.9 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 109
44. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there 
are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Nil pence per ordinary share (2014: 9.8 pence) — 3.2
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Final – 9.8 pence (2014: 9.5 pence) per ordinary share 3.2 3.1
Interim – nil pence (2014: 5.2 pence) per ordinary share — 1.7
3.2 4.8
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP but not yet vested — 0.1
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) 3.2 4.9
45. Pensions
The Company operates a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit pension arrangement called the Roxboro UK Executive Pension Fund 
(the “Executive Fund”). The Executive Fund provides benefits based on final salary and length of service on leaving. The Executive Fund is closed 
to new members. The following disclosures exclude any allowance for defined contribution funds operated by the Company. 
The Executive Fund is subject to the “Statutory Funding Objective” under the Pensions Act 2004. An actuarial valuation of the Executive Fund 
is carried out at least once every three years to determine whether the Statutory Funding Objective is met. As part of the process the Company 
must agree with the Trustees of the Executive Fund the contributions to be paid to address any shortfall against the Statutory Funding Objective. 
The most recent actuarial valuation was carried out on 5 April 2014. The results of that valuation were projected by an independent qualified 
actuary to 31 December 2014 allowing for Executive Fund cash flows and changes in the assumptions for FRS 102 purposes.
Recognised assets for defined benefit obligations
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Present value of funded obligations (2.0) (2.1)
Fair value of plan assets 2.2 2.1
Recognised asset for defined benefit obligations 0.2 —
Plan assets consist of the following:
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Bonds 1.9 1.9
Cash 0.2 0.2
2.1 2.1
The assets do not include any investments in shares of the Company. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 110
Financial statements
45. Pensions continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Liabilities at 1 January 2.1 1.8
Interest cost 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1)
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation — 0.1
Changes to financial assumptions (0.1) 0.2
Liabilities at 31 December 2.0 2.1
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Assets at 1 January 2.1 1.9
Interest on assets 0.1 0.1
Employer contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefit paid (0.1) (0.1)
Return on plan assets less interest (0.1) 0.1
Assets at 31 December 2.1 2.1
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Interest on obligation 0.1 0.1
Interest on plan assets (0.1) (0.1)
— —
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK scheme (% per annum)
2015 2014
Discount rate at 31 December 3.70 3.40
Future pension increases 3.20 3.20
Inflation – RPI 3.20 3.20
Inflation – CPI 2.30 2.30
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2015, used SAPS mortality tables 
based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based on the latest mortality investigations and 
reflect an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of an individual currently aged 45 years 
and retiring at age 65 years is 24.0 years for males and 26.6 years for females. For individuals currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy 
is 22.3 years for males and 24.9 years for females.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 111
46. Related party transactions
During the period, the Company received management fees from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned totalling £nil (2014: £nil) and received 
interest totalling £nil (2014: £nil) on intercompany loans to those subsidiaries. At 31 December, a total of £1.9m was owed to the Company 
by those subsidiaries (2014: £2.0m).
47. Statement of cash flows
31 December
2015
£’m
31 December
2014
£’m
Operating activities
Profit for the year 0.5 0.6
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment — 0.1
Share based payments 0.1 0.2
Finance income (2.7) (2.5)
Financial expense 0.5 0.2
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital (1.6) (1.4)
Increase in debtors (0.3) (0.5)
Increase/(decrease) in other creditors 1.7 (1.0)
Cash generated from operations (0.2) (2.9)
Interest received 1.4 1.2
Interest paid (0.5) (0.2)
Net cash generated from operating activities 0.9 1.0
Financing activities
Dividends paid (3.2) (4.8)
Drawdown of bank facility 2.4 7.6
Payment of upfront loan facility costs — (0.3)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities (0.8) 2.5
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (0.1) 0.6
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 0.6 —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 0.5 0.6 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 112
Financial statements
Prepared under IFRSs
2015 2014 2013 2012* 2011*
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue 161.4 159.8 131.2 115.1 102.5
Research and development cash expenditure 5.5 6.2 5.9 5.0 5.1
Underlying operating profit 6.1 18.1 14.5 19.6 15.5
Non-underlying operating loss (9.5) (2.3) (2.9) — (0.1)
Finance (charges)/income (0.5) (0.3) (0.4) 0.2 (0.6)
(Loss)/profit before gain on disposal of discontinued operations and taxation (3.9) 15.5 11.2 19.8 14.8
Cash generated from operating activities 8.7 8.6 6.9 13.8 12.4
Net (debt)/cash (3.8) 0.6 7.1 15.0 13.7
Shareholders’ funds 70.1 72.8 66.7 63.0 54.8
Statistical information Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (6.4) 29.4 23.9 41.4 31.3
Dividends per share 9.8 15.0 14.4 13.5 10.0
Dividend cover (times) n/a 2.0 1.7 3.2 3.0
Underlying operating margin 3.7% 11.2% 11.1% 17.0% 15.1%
* Results for 2011 and 2012 exclude the results of operations classified as discontinued.
Five-year summary Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Company Secretary  
and Registered Office
Fariyal Khanbabi
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX
Telephone: +44 (0)1638 778640
Registered in England and Wales
Company number: 2486024
Email: info@dialight.com 
www.dialight.com 
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our 
website, www.dialight.com, which contains 
information about Dialight. Any information on or 
linked from the website is not incorporated by 
reference into the Annual Report and Accounts.
There is a section designed specifically for 
investors at www.dialight.com/PLCHome/Index, 
which includes detailed coverage of Dialight’s 
share price and our financial results. You can 
also review this year’s Annual Report and 
Accounts. Our share price is also available 
on the London Stock Exchange’s website,  
www.londonstockexchange.com. 
Dialight plc shareholders can elect to receive their 
shareholder communications such as the Annual 
Report and Accounts and other shareholder 
documents electronically by registering 
at www.dialight.com/SiteServices/AlertServices.
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Investec Bank PLC
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti’s Shareholder Contact Centre can be 
contacted by telephone on 0371 384 2495 
(international callers: +44 121 415 7047) 
between 8.30am and 5.30pm each business 
day, excluding bank holidays. 
You can also access details of your 
shareholding and a range of other shareholder 
services by registering at www.shareview.co.uk. 
Dealing service
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service 
which allows you to sell your Dialight plc 
shares or add to your holding if you are a UK 
resident. You can deal in your shares on the 
internet or by telephone. For more information 
about this service and for details of their 
rates, log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
or telephone on 0345 603 7037 between 
8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday. 
If you wish to deal, you will need your 
account/shareholder reference number 
which appears on your share certificate. 
Alternatively, if you hold a share certificate, 
you can also use any bank, building society 
or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities 
to buy or sell shares. If you are in any doubt 
about buying or selling shares, you should 
seek professional financial advice.
Forward-looking statements
Certain sections of this Annual Report contain 
forward-looking statements that are subject 
to risk factors associated with, amongst 
other things, the economic and business 
circumstances occurring from time to time 
in the countries and sectors in which the 
Company and its subsidiaries and associates 
operate. It is believed that the expectations 
reﬂected in the Annual Report are reasonable 
but they may be affected by a wide range 
of variables which could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those 
currently anticipated.
Trade marks
The following trade marks appear in this 
document: Dialight and Vigilant, and are the 
registered trade marks of the Dialight Group.
Auditors
KPMG LLP
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham B4 6GH
Legal advisers
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
Butzel Long
Suite 100
150 West Jefferson Ave
Detroit, MI 48226
USA
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank PLC
Level 6 Metropolitan House
321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes MK9 2GA
Financial calendar 2016/2017
Annual General Meeting
26 April 2016
Half Yearly Financial Report
2 August 2016
Regional headquarters
Dialight Corporation
1501 Route 34 South
Farmingdale, NJ 07727
USA
Telephone: +1 732 919 3119
Facsimile: +1 732 751 5778
Dialight Europe Limited
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 1638 665161
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1638 6607 
Directory and shareholder information Dialight plc 
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX
www.dialight.com
