 Annual report and accounts 
2015
DFS Annual report and accounts 2015 Contents
We are the sofa experts
 Design  Manufacture  Retail  Service
Strategic report
Highlights 1
Our business 2
Chairman’s statement 4
Market overview 6
Business model 8
Strategy 12
Strategy in action 14
Risks and uncertainties 20
Chief Executive’s report 24
Financial review 28
Corporate responsibility 30
Governance
Board of directors 34
Directors’ report 36
Corporate governance 39
Audit Committee report 46
Nomination Committee report 51
Directors’ remuneration report 53
Directors’ responsibilities statement 74
Independent auditor’s report 75
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 77
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 78
Consolidated balance sheet 79
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 80
Consolidated cash flow statement 81
Notes to the financial statements 82
Company balance sheet 105
Notes to the Company financial statements 106
Shareholder information 108 Governance
1 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
DFS has continued its strong performance since 
becoming a listed public company with gross sales up 
7% for the year. Our dedication to creating and making 
quality sofas that every home loves and can afford, 
combined with the culture of a family business, 
continues to be at the heart of this success.
Operational
 Proven growth strategy on track:
 UK stores
 – Five new 10-15,000 sq.ft. DFS stores opened in UK and ROI
 – DFS small store format successfully trialled in London: two more planned
 Broadening our appeal
 – 75% growth in branded upholstery orders through DFS
 – Sofa Workshop and Dwell store base expanded
 International
 – First Continental European store opened in The Netherlands in November 2014
 – Opened Rotterdam store in September 2015, with one further store to be opened in FY16
 Full utilisation of retail space
 – Six Customer Distribution Centres now operating successfully, releasing circa 70,000 sq.ft.  
of additional selling space
 Online
 – Strong 17% growth in web sales
 – New in-store and at home technology increasing customer engagement
 Continued strong increases in customer satisfaction scores; post-purchase  
NPS now above 80%
 Partnership with Team GB for Rio 2016 Olympics
 Group gross sales up 7 .0% to £913.1m (FY14: £853.4m)
 Group revenue up 7 .5% to £706.1m (FY14: £656.8m)
 Group adjusted EBITDA up 8.4% to £89.2m (FY14: £82.3m)
 Group profit before tax £10.7m (FY14: £3.6m)
 Continued strong cash generation: 1.8x net debt / adjusted EBITDA
 Adjusted underlying EPS of 18.5p
 Successful IPO and refinancing significantly reduced debt and future interest costs
 Total dividend of 9.3p per share proposed, twice covered by adjusted underlying EPS
Financial 
Highlights 2 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
DFS is the leading upholstery retailer in the 
UK – passionate about making and selling 
high quality, great looking sofas since 1969.
Heritage
DFS was founded in 1969 with a single 
store and manufacturing workshop near 
Doncaster. Over our 45 year history we 
have grown profitably to be the UK 
market leading upholstery retailer with a 
25.7% share of the estimated £3 billion 
upholstered furniture sector in 2014, 
according to Verdict.
Distinctive customer proposition
At DFS, we design, manufacture, sell, 
deliver and install an extensive range of 
upholstered and other furniture products 
for our customers. Our product offering is 
complemented by our market-leading 
consumer financing options, best-in-
class customer service, comprehensive 
after-sales service, a long-term guarantee 
and ongoing product support.
We engage with our customers  
through our stores, live chat service, 
telephone call centres and websites  
to offer a convenient, omnichannel 
customer experience.
In store, our customers are able to benefit 
from our knowledgeable and well-trained 
sales employees and the inspiration of 
our accessorised roomsets, with typically 
60 to 70 ranges on display in each store. 
Our online sales advisers are available  
to speak to customers 24 hours a day, 
365 days a year and our live chat video 
service allows us to engage with our 
customers face-to-face.
Extensive product range
We aim to offer our customers the 
broadest range of upholstery products 
with a wide variety of styles, brands and 
price points, all of which are exclusive to 
DFS. Typically, we have over 200 
upholstery ranges on sale at any  
one time.
To further enhance our premium product 
proposition, we have established 
exclusive partnerships with Country 
Living, House Beautiful, French 
Connection and G-Plan and acquired 
Sofa Workshop and Dwell.
Dedication to quality
DFS products are designed and 
manufactured to exacting standards 
and our confidence in our quality is 
backed by an industry-leading free  
10 year structural guarantee across all 
our upholstery products.
All our products are handmade to 
customer order by skilled upholsterers 
either at one of our three UK factories or 
by our long-standing supplier partners.
Unmatched service proposition
To complement our product quality,  
we also invest in our service. We directly 
employ over 200 delivery drivers and 
crew to allow us to provide our customers 
with a full installation service. Our 
products are delivered into the room  
of our customer’s choice and then are 
unwrapped, assembled (if required) and 
inspected before all packaging material  
is taken away for recycling.
To ensure our customers receive the 
highest quality of aftercare we also  
employ over 150 of our own in-house 
upholstery service technicians, with at 
least one based in every store, to 
promptly visit customer homes and 
address any service queries.
Make a space
Simply create a digital version of  
the room your sofa will sit in using 
our style library, or upload your  
own photos.
Inspire
We are the UK’s 4th largest 
retail advertiser. Our 
‘always on’ marketing 
drives consumer demand 
and awareness of our 
extensive product range 
which aims to offer a ‘sofa 
for everyone’.
Create
Our own UK design studios 
and upholstery factories 
design and produce more 
than a quarter of the 
furniture we sell, allowing 
lead times on some 
made-to-order sofas to be 
as little as three weeks. 
Retail
105 DFS stores in the UK, 
ROI and Netherlands, plus 
17 smaller footprint Sofa 
Workshop and Dwell 
branded stores.
Our websites and apps 
complement our store 
network and provide  
a strong incremental  
sales channel.
Service
Our dedicated in-house 
delivery crew and 
upholstery technicians 
provide full installation  
and service support.
DFS at a glance:
Our business Governance
3 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
Cruquius
The Netherlands
United Kingdom  
& Republic of Ireland
Rotterdam
 • DFS stores
 • Factories
 • Dwell stores
 • Sofa Workshop stores
 DFS/Dwell/Sofa Workshop
The clear leader in UK  
upholstered furniture retail
45 years
 of specialist heritage  
in the design, manufacture and 
sale of upholstered furniture 
Service
End-to-end direct control of  
all aspects of our operations,  
from manufacturing to delivery 
and after sales service, 
allowing us to offer high-quality 
customer service and increase 
operational flexibility 
Today DFS employs more  
than 3,500 people and operates 
over 100 retail stores in the UK, 
the Republic of Ireland and the 
Netherlands, a comprehensive 
online channel, and our own three 
upholstery factories in the UK. 4 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
We remain dedicated to creating and making quality 
sofas that every home loves and can afford. We are 
proud to retain our family culture and our relentless 
focus on success. This is our first year end report 
since our listing in March and we are pleased to report 
a good performance across the financial year with our 
strategy wholly on-track. 
Richard Baker
Chairman
The continuation of  
our growth journey
Our flotation in March this year was an 
exciting milestone in our transition from 
a formerly founder-led private company 
to an independent, listed business 
focused on delivering profitable growth 
and cash returns to shareholders. 
Since joining as Chairman over five 
years ago, I have been consistently 
impressed by how the flexible business 
model, vertical integration and scale of 
our Group allow us to generate strong 
cash returns regardless of market 
headwinds or tailwinds. I am delighted 
to see continued evidence that the 
growth strategy put in place by the 
executive management team is 
delivering positive results across 
multiple initiatives.
There are still substantial further 
potential opportunities for DFS in both 
the UK and international markets under 
our current strategy. The strong 
performance of our store opening 
programme is indicative of the 
long-term opportunity in the UK as we 
develop and test new store sizes and 
formats. Our trial store in Cruquius in 
the Netherlands continues to perform 
Record levels of revenues, profits and  
cash flow over the last financial year,  
with strategic growth initiatives on track
encouragingly, giving us the confidence 
to continue our international trial by 
opening more stores and increasing 
marketing spend. The opening of Sofa 
Workshop and Dwell shop-in-shops 
represents a natural step in our journey 
to increase our appeal to a broader 
range of customers and maximise 
returns from our store warehouse space 
conversion. In addition, overlying these 
initiatives, our continued increase in 
online participation gives us great 
confidence that our omnichannel offer 
will continue to deliver excellent growth.
Our markets
The financial year saw a continuation  
of the favourable upholstery sector 
conditions experienced since the 
second half of our 2014 fiscal year, 
evidenced by the key macroeconomic 
indicators of consumer confidence, 
housing market activity and consumer 
credit availability. 
“
“ Governance
5 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
There is substantial further opportunity 
in both the UK and internationally under 
our current strategy
All of these show positive signs of 
ongoing recovery. The value of the 
upholstery market still remains more 
than 20% beneath the peak seen in 
2007, which gives us further confidence 
in the prospects for long-term growth in 
the sector, notwithstanding the short 
term variations in trading results from 
transient weather or public events. 
Results and dividend
The business has performed well  
in the year delivering record levels  
of revenues, profits and cash flow.  
This performance is especially  
pleasing given the potential impact  
of uncertainty around the UK general 
election in May, the prior year’s extra 
week of trading and the flotation 
process earlier in the year.
Given the strong cash flow generation 
that is a feature of our business model, 
the Board has taken the decision to 
declare payment of an interim dividend 
of 3.1 pence per share and recommend 
to shareholders a final dividend of 
6.2 pence per share. We see this as a 
clear statement of intent to deliver for 
shareholders both earnings growth and 
cash returns through our progressive 
dividend policy. 
People
I am exceptionally proud of the 
continued hard work of our family of 
over 3,500 employees across the 
Group, who deliver outstanding service 
at every stage of our customer 
experience. Our Net Promoter Scores, 
a measure of customer service, have 
reached record levels over the last few 
months, and bear testament to the 
team’s efforts to delight our customers, 
and I thank them for their dedication.
We have had non-executive 
representation on our Board, which I  
have chaired, for many years before 
our listing. I am pleased that we have 
been able to add three outstanding 
independent non-executives to support 
the business in its strategic and 
operational development. We recognise 
the importance of a diversity of skills at 
Board level and our new members bring 
complementary experience from a variety 
of business backgrounds, giving us 
particular strengths in customer service, 
employee engagement, responsible 
retailing and financial control.
I would also like to express my thanks 
to Jon Massey for his 27 years of 
service to the Group, as he retires from 
full-time executive responsibilities. We 
look forward to continuing to benefit 
from his experience as he continues to 
work with us in an advisory capacity.
Conclusion
With the key macro-economic 
indicators for the upholstery sector 
all positive and our strategic initiatives 
on-track, we can look forward with 
confidence. We have an exceptionally 
strong management team, a leading 
customer proposition, a financial model 
that is well adapted for the volatility in 
demand that the sector can experience 
and a proven long-term growth 
strategy. DFS is well positioned to  
make further excellent progress in the 
year ahead.
Richard Baker
Chairman
7 October 2015
“
“ 6 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
02 03 05 07 09 11 13 04 06 08 10 12 14 15
100
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
Housing transactions (‘000s)
2
02 03 05 07 09 11 13 04 06 08 10 12 14 15
 (40)
 (35)
 (30)
 (25)
 (20)
 (15)
 (10)
 (5)
0
5
10
Consumer confidence (%)
1
02 03 05 07 09 11 13 04 06 08 10 12 14 15
(5)
20
15
10
5
0
Net unsecured lending (% change)
3
We have been consistently capturing 
market share, achieving success 
through our differentiated customer 
proposition and omnichannel presence.
Large potential customer base
DFS has a specialist focus on the retail upholstered furniture 
sector which accounts for approximately 25% of the furniture 
and floorcoverings market. The UK retail upholstered furniture 
sector was estimated by Verdict to be c.£3.0 billion in 2014. 
We also offer a selected range of beds, dining and other 
furniture giving access to other segments in the market.
Clear leader in the sector…
DFS is the clear leader in the upholstery sector with 25.7% 
share by value. Our share is over three times larger than that 
of the next competitor.
Our website also maintains a leading presence,  
attracting over 40% of the sector’s traffic volumes.
…which has returned to steady  
growth that is forecast to continue
Between 1994 and 2014, the UK upholstered furniture sector 
has grown by 2.9% per annum on a compound annual 
growth basis.
The sector is principally driven by three key factors: 
consumer confidence, housing market activity and consumer 
credit availability. After peaking at £3.9 billion in 2007, the 
subsequent financial crisis, compounded by the exit of 
several significant retailers, caused the market to decline  
to £2.9 billion in 2011 from where it has since stabilised to 
c.£3.0 billion in 2014. The market is forecast to reach 
c.£3.1 billion in 2015, and on the basis that the demand 
drivers have generally continued to show improvement,  
it is anticipated this momentum will continue.
1 GfK Consumer Confidence, Overall index for “UK Consumer Confidence”
2 HM Revenue & Customs quarterly residential property transactions valued  
over £40,000 for England and Wales
3 Bank of England Net Unsecured Lending to Individuals Seasonally Adjusted
Market overview
Key market drivers Governance
7 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
7
2010 2014
47.7
54.8
34.4
26.7
17.9 18.5
n General Merchandisers
n Independents
n Specialist Chains
Our unprompted brand 
awareness of 75% is over 
2.5x greater than that of  
our nearest competitor
Customers seeking the benefits  
of specialism and scale
We see three broad categories of companies competing in the upholstery 
retail market: Specialist Chains such as DFS, ScS, Harveys, Sofaworks 
and Furniture Village; General Merchandisers such as Ikea, John Lewis, 
Next and Argos; and Independents that are typically single store operations.
A sofa, once purchased, will be located at the heart of a customer’s home 
for a number of years. As a result, most customers will perform significant 
research in order to find the right product for them. This depth of research 
generally leads customers to prefer to choose to purchase from Specialist 
Chains and Independents that have the specialist sales staff and breadth 
of product range to appeal to the broadest range of customers. This trend 
can be seen in the combined market share of these two categories having 
remained over 80% from 2010 to 2014. 
Customers are however increasingly choosing to purchase from Specialist 
Chains, with the sector share held by specialists rising from 47.7% in 2010 
to 54.8%. Specialist Chains benefit from advertising more widely than 
Independents and using their purchasing scale to offer customers better 
value and more attractive purchase financing terms, as well as giving the 
reassurance of more visible financial strength and brand reputation to 
underpin long-term product warranties. 
We believe that this trend is likely to continue as customers continue to 
see the benefits that Specialist Chains can offer and Independents 
continue to face the challenge of declining sales with static fixed costs.  8 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Business model
We have a ‘difficult to match’ business model, with key advantages 
that deliver sales growth, market share gain and strong margins.
Business model  
made possible by:
Scale  
+ Vertical integration  
+ Expert focus
Recommend
 
Award-winning 
customer feedback 
system to track Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) 
at an individual 
employee level
 
Database of more than 
5 million customer 
records, each with 
delivery addresses, 
supporting future store 
location decisions and 
enabling direct 
marketing initiatives
 Active engagement 
with customers on 
social media and 
through Trustpilot 
– 8.9/10 average rating
Manufacture & install
 
Products manufactured to customer order, resulting in virtually 
stockless, negative working capital model
 
External purchasing scale and in-house manufacturing enables DFS 
to offer industry leading value across all price points and minimises 
lead times on bespoke products
 
Directly employed delivery crews and service upholsterers allows 
end-to-end control of customer experience and focus  
on customer service
Inspire
 
DFS is the UK’s 4th largest retail advertiser
 
Significant spend and ‘always on’ marketing generates 
unprompted brand awareness over 2.5x any specialist competitor
 
Rich, engaging web presence attracting over 40% of sector  
web traffic
 
Continued innovation in marketing activities with a focus  
on technology
Sell
 
Nationwide network of 
well-invested, attractively 
presented stores
 
Online and telephone 
sales teams available  
24 hours a day, 365 days 
a year
 
Well-trained sales teams 
– 3 month induction 
programme including 2 
weeks classroom training
 
Broadest product range in 
the industry, enhanced by 
exclusive branded ranges 
 
Interest-free credit offer 
independently rated by 
Defaqto as the best in 
furniture retailing
Our upholstery sales  
are over 3x that of our 
next nearest competitor 
giving us tangible scale 
advantages Strategic report Financial statements Governance
9 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report
Key business model characteristics
Advertising spend
Driven by our significant advertising spend, our stores are destinations 
achieving sales densities over 2x our competitors’ average with every 
store contributing to profitability.
Sales intensity
Sales intensity creates advantages, including increased viability of 
vertical integration, and generating operating leverage over relatively 
low fixed property and central costs. Over 70% of our costs are 
discretionary, variable or semi-variable.
Made-to-order
Our sofas are made-to-order, so our virtually stockless model results in 
negative working capital, and allows us to rapidly refresh our product 
range while significantly reducing any stockholding risk. DFS Annual report and accounts 2015 10 Governance
11 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
Business model continued
We believe DFS’s business model is well-suited to 
exploit the general shift towards online retail.
Made for online retail
For most consumers, upholstery is a well-considered purchase – it represents a 
significant expenditure on a product that will be located at the heart of the home. 
Over 70% of upholstery customers begin their research online. Our website 
inspires customers with rich media content that enables them to search for 
products by material, size and style. We also offer room-planning tablet 
applications to allow customers to create a digital version of their living room,  
and to customise their product choice by selecting from a wide range of available 
colours and fabrics before viewing a virtual reality representation of their choice.
Where customers need more information and assistance we have a team of 
advisers that can engage by telephone, video conversation or live text chat to  
deal with customers’ specific needs directly.
Seamless integration between stores and online
Given the importance of comfort, design and materials to the purchase decision, 
currently over 90% of upholstery customers wish to experience sitting on a 
product before placing an order. DFS already has a nationwide network of over 
100 stores that act as ‘destination showrooms’ to allow potential customers to 
view, test and learn about products under consideration. Our live chat advisers can 
book store appointments for customers where they are greeted by a named store 
salesperson and shown the products that are of most interest.
In-store we use our technology infrastructure to show customers the breadth and 
depth of our whole range. Using new handheld tablets our salespeople can build a 
virtual representation of any product in our range before ‘swiping’ to display it for 
customers on a large video screen. In-store kiosks also give customers and sales 
colleagues access to our web channel to display our extended range of beds, 
dining and other furniture.
Achieving efficient fulfilment
Given the size and weight of the upholstery products, fulfilment is a significant  
cost to upholstery retailers. Our model has always included direct delivery to our 
customers’ homes using our own delivery fleet and employees. DFS is able to use 
its significant scale (over 3x larger than any competitor, and larger still when 
compared to online-only retailers) to maximise the number of deliveries a two 
person delivery crew can make in a single day by minimising the distance travelled 
between deliveries. This intensity in delivery reduces fulfilment cost per order and 
allows DFS to offer compelling value to its customers.
Reflecting the significant investment made and these operational advantages 
relative to competitors, DFS has seen consistently strong growth in website visitor 
traffic, with dfs.co.uk now attracting over 1.5m unique visitors per month – over 
40% of sector web traffic, and generating continued double-digit growth in 
important online revenues. 
>
 70%
 of customers begin their 
research online
dfs.co.uk
 attracts over 40% of sector 
web traffic
100+ 
stores that act as ‘destination 
showrooms’ to allow potential 
customers to view, test and 
learn about products under 
consideration 12 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategy
We have proven strategies to deliver growth. All of our 
growth initiatives have been in place for a number of years 
and have delivered proven incremental sales and profit.
Our six strategic priorities are:
 Broadening our product 
and brand appeal
 Establish presence in 
International Markets
Exploit UK roll-out 
opportunities
Full utilisation of store  
retail space
 Benefit from resumption of 
upholstery sector growth
Maintain online 
leadership Strategic report Financial statements Governance
13 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report
All of our strategic growth 
initiatives are on track and can  
be seen in detail on pages 14 – 19 14 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
2012 2015 Target 
2018
DFS total
Market share:
26%
82% 77% 75%
18%
23%
25%
n Competition 
n DFS
Demonstrated Momentum in 
Capturing Share of £1.3bn 
Aspirational Customer Market
Source: Independent surveys conducted 
on behalf of DFS. 2015 figures are average 
of Nov-14, Mar-15 and Jul-15 and include 
1% for Sofa Workshop and Dwell.
Strategy in action
1 Broadening our product and brand appeal 
• We believe approximately 43% (£1.4 billion) of the total upholstery  
sector by value is purchased by a demographic group of ‘aspirational 
customers’ who tend to be older and more affluent than other customer 
groups. These aspirational customers are primarily motivated by quality 
of design, product and service from start to finish, and see brands as a 
signifier of trust and quality. 
• Whilst we currently account for c.26% of all UK upholstery sales by 
value our overall share in this ‘aspirational customer’ segment is 
currently c.23%, and we intend to grow this share. We have already 
proven our ability to capture market share in this segment growing  
from a base of c.18% in 2012 through a combination of own brand 
development, marketing refinement, brand partnerships and acquisitions. 
Progress
• Exclusive brand sales orders grew by 75% in FY 2015.
• 84 exclusive brand ranges currently on sale with 42 introduced within 
the last twelve months, including the launch of DFS’s Iconica brand.
The future
• We aim to grow our market share in the ‘aspirational customers’ 
demographic segment to over 25% by FY 2018.
15% 
Exclusive brand sales  
account for 15% of  
group gross sales Governance
15 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
Oxford
York
Ayr
Westfield 
(2,500 sq.ft.)
Basingstoke
Christchurch (FY16)
2 Exploit UK roll-out opportunities
• While we have nationwide store coverage already, we have 
been successful in profitably adding further new UK stores 
to our portfolio. We use a bespoke customer catchment 
area model, developed in partnership with CACI that  
utilises our customer delivery data accurately to predict 
opportunities in further customer catchment areas.
• There is also innovation in store formats to be utilised in new 
catchment areas. We have successfully introduced both a 
medium 10,000 sq.ft. format in three locations, and are 
trialling a 2,500 sq.ft. small store format in the high footfall 
urban Westfield Stratford shopping centre.
Progress
• Six UK stores opened since August 2014.
• Trial Westfield store opened and operating profitably,  
with minimal cannibalisation on surrounding retail park  
store locations.
c.21 
months
Average payback for  
new UK Stores
The future
• We have identified locations for more than 
15 further 10,000-15,000 sq. ft. stores that are 
each predicted to generate over £500,000 
incremental EBITDA net of cannibalisation  
of existing stores.
• We intend to continue to trial new store formats 
and locations to make our products more 
accessible to potential customers, including  
the trial of up to two additional urban small 
stores during FY 2016. 16 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Cruquius
The Netherlands
Rotterdam
Cork
Dublin
Carrickmines
Limerick (December 2015 opening)
Strategy in action continued
4th
ROI store opening  
December 2015 in  
Limerick
3 Establish presence in International Markets
• We have proven our ability to enter new markets having entered the 
Republic of Ireland in Financial Year 2012 and grown to be the second 
biggest player by sales in the upholstered retail furniture sector. Having 
carried out a global opportunity review, with the assistance of 
consultants OC&C, the Netherlands has been identified as the optimal 
initial location for new entry into Continental Europe.
• In October 2015 we also acquired DFS Spain, an independent retailer 
operating a single 5,000 sq. ft. store in San Javier on the South Coast  
of Spain. Through this transaction we have reacquired brand rights to 
DFS across Europe, enabling us to market our online presence through 
dfs.co.uk to expatriates in Spain. We also intend to continue operating 
the retail store, leveraging the strength of our brand and the store’s strong 
local reputation developed through over a decade of sales in the region. 
Progress
• Three established stores in ROI, all operating 
profitably, with a fourth store to be opened in 
December 2015 in Limerick.
• First trial store in the Netherlands opened in 
Cruquius in November 2014, with the Rotterdam 
trial store opened in September 2015.
• Acquisition of DFS Spain in October 2015.
The future
• We believe that there is considerable potential 
for DFS in the Netherlands should the initial trial 
stores maintain their positive trajectory.
• We intend to commence marketing activities in 
expatriate areas of Spain to increase web traffic 
flows to dfs.co.uk. Governance
17 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
 • FY 2013
 • FY 2014
 • FY 2015
 • FY 2016
North-East
Scotland
Hook
Bristol
North-West
South-East
12
Stores with ex-warehouse  
space now converted into 
incremental space
4 Full utilisation of store retail space
• We are releasing retail space in our store estate by moving and 
consolidating warehouse facilities currently located on retail store  
sites to lower rent and more logistically efficient locations. 
• We have to date used this additional retail space to offer a 
complementary range of dining furniture and beds, and we are  
currently assessing the relative returns of broadening our upholstery 
offering or locating Dwell or Sofa Workshop shop-in-shops.
Progress
• Six Customer Distribution Centres (‘CDCs’)
established to date, with ex-warehouse space at 12 
stores now converted into incremental selling space.
• Shop-in-shop trials of Dwell and Sofa Workshop 
commenced at three DFS stores in August 2015.
The future
• We are targeting 17 CDCs across the country 
releasing c.400,000 sq. ft. of additional retail space 
with three new CDC conversions completed 
each year. 18 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
5 Maintain online leadership
• We have the market leading online upholstery platform and a proven 
track record of growth in margin enhancing sales through this channel.
• While the primary role of the platform will continue to be to inspire and 
attract customers to physical stores, our online channel lends itself to 
convenience and other shoppers who may not be willing to visit a 
physical retail store. 
• Approximately 70% of DFS’s web sales are from customers that  
have not visited a physical DFS store in the last three months, implying 
that the majority of online sales are generally incremental to existing 
store sales.
Progress
• Gross sales grew by 17% in FY 2015.
• Over 1.5m unique visitors per month between  
February and July 2015.
+17 %
Growth in online  
gross sales in 2015
Strategy in action continued
The future
• We intend to leverage our leading presence in 
this marketplace to generate incremental sales 
through adding extended ranges of direct home 
delivery furniture both in the upholstery and 
wider furniture markets, efficiently utilising the 
Group’s existing traffic and interest free credit 
offer and maximising the Sofa Workshop and 
Dwell online opportunity. Governance
19 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
Jul 15 Jul 14 Jul 13 Jul 12
Over 30% pts. increase in NPS since 2012
6  Benefit from resumption of upholstery  
sector growth
• In addition to using our targeted strategies to drive growth above 
furniture market rates, we also expect to benefit from general growth  
of the upholstery sector and furniture market, forecast to be c.3%  
per annum to 2017. 
• We continue to invest in our store estate, including store refits and 
lighting upgrades in order to deliver a high quality experience  
and ambience.
• To maintain our strength and appeal with our core customer base we 
have invested in a customer feedback system, which ensures that any 
neutral or negative feedback is directly followed up upon to learn where 
opportunities to improve our service exist, and to allow us to enhance 
our reputation with those customers.
• We are also investing in our employee development 
programmes to ensure that our people have the necessary 
skills to deliver the world class customer service that we 
aspire to offer.
Progress
• Our post-purchase customer Net Promoter Scores (‘NPS’) 
averaged over 80% during the final six months of FY 2015. 
• Because of this success we intend to broaden the emphasis 
of our Net Promoter Score to also include other stages  
of measurement, in particular our “established customer” 
measure, which is surveyed six months post-delivery.
The future
• All our customer facing colleagues will be trained to 
possess a minimum of a level 2 NVQ in customer 
service. Our head office team incentivisation is also  
being amended to include NPS measures.
c.3% p.a.
Sector growth forecast  
for 2014 – 2017 20 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Risks and uncertainties
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties in both the development and day-to-day operations of  
its business. The Board regularly reviews key business risks and oversees the implementation by executive 
directors and operational management of processes to manage these risks.
Those risks that could potentially have a significant impact on the business are discussed below, together with 
the Group’s related mitigating activities. Other risks which are currently either not known to the Group or are 
not considered material could also impact the Group’s reported performance or assets.
Business strategy
The success of the Group depends upon the formulation 
and implementation of appropriate strategies by the Board.
Strategic issues are regularly discussed at Board meetings 
in addition to dedicated strategy days. Performance against 
strategic targets is documented and reviewed to assess 
progress and enable any remedial actions to be taken on a 
timely basis. Senior management are set specific objectives 
for their business area which are aligned to the strategy and 
a proportion of their remuneration is dependent on the 
achievement of these objectives.
Economy and consumer market conditions
The retail market for upholstered furniture in the UK is highly 
competitive. The Group’s success is therefore dependent 
on its ability to compete effectively, particularly during peak 
trading periods.
The Group’s products represent a significant discretionary 
spend for customers and demand is heavily influenced by 
factors affecting the wider UK economy including (but not 
limited to) consumer confidence, income levels, interest 
rates, the availability of credit and the level of housing 
market activity.
Maintaining the reputation of, and value associated with,  
the Group’s brands and product offering is central to the 
success of the business.
The Group continues to make substantial investments in 
marketing to maintain its leading brand status. Marketing 
strategy is supported through econometric and customer 
insight analysis.
Detailed sales information by product and store is reviewed 
daily, enabling changes to product selection, incentive 
structures and advertising strategy to be made on a 
dynamic basis to optimise sales. Our in-house design 
teams enable reaction to emerging trends.
Products and services are continually reviewed to ensure 
they suit customers’ needs, are competitively priced,  
offer good value and are supported by excellent  
customer service, in order to enhance the Group’s  
market-leading position.
The Group’s Interest free credit offer allows customers to 
spread the cost into affordable monthly payments.
The Group has a focus on offering outstanding customer 
care and service. This is underpinned by our established 
use of Net Promoter Score (‘NPS’) at all touch points of the 
consumer journey to ensure the brand is growing, trusted 
and appealing.
Risk Mitigation Governance
21 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
Expansion of retail store network
The growth of the Group depends on its ability to open and 
operate new stores on a timely and cost-effective basis 
while continuing to increase sales at existing stores. This 
includes successfully achieving incremental sales from retail 
space released by roll out of Customer Distribution Centres.
Competition for desirable retail sites has historically been 
significant, which may reduce the availability and/or 
increase the rental costs of such sites. Successful execution 
of any new store roll-out also depends upon a number of 
other factors, including the hiring, training and retention of 
qualified personnel and the capability of the Group’s 
existing information technology and distribution systems  
to accommodate new stores.
The Group continuously reviews the location and format  
of its stores and their contribution to overall results. A 
detailed appraisal model is applied to assess the payback 
period and expected profitability of each potential new 
store, including its impact on existing stores in the area. 
Appraisals are subject to thorough review and approval  
by the Board before any investment is made.
The Group has an established supporting infrastructure in 
place to recruit and train staff and fit out and open stores 
to schedule.
Website and IT systems
The Group’s website is a key component of its omnichannel 
proposition and a failure to review and innovate in this 
competitive area could impact achievement of the Group’s 
strategic growth plans.
The website and other parts of the Group’s operations depend 
upon the continued availability and integrity of its IT systems. 
The Group continues to make substantial investment in 
both website development and marketing to maintain its 
market leading position.
Full back up and business continuity procedures, 
comprising both internal and third party resources, are in 
place and are regularly reviewed, tested and updated.
Consumer finance
The majority of the Group’s sales are to customers that 
utilise its interest free finance offerings, which are provided 
by external finance houses that, in return for a fee, bear the 
risk of customer default. Credit standards with respect to 
customer finance offerings typically tighten during periods 
of economic downturn, which may limit the Group’s ability 
to offer customer finance on commercially acceptable terms 
and/or may increase the amount of the fee payable to the 
external providers of customer finance.
The Group has longstanding relationships with a number  
of finance houses and now has long term contracts in place 
with multiple providers which more than cover the total 
requirement for customer finance. These arrangements 
enable a redistribution of business in the event of 
withdrawal by one or more providers, and acceptance rates 
and fee levels are continuously reviewed to ensure that each 
provider remains competitive.
An increase in LIBOR that affects the cost of providing 
credit may be mitigated by revising the customer offer in line 
with maintaining market leader status.
Supply chain
A large portion of the Group’s products are supplied by a 
core of manufacturers, with many produced in continental 
Europe and Asia. The Group’s internal manufacturing 
operations also supply a significant proportion of goods 
sold and may not wholly be able to compensate for the 
failure of any of the Group’s key external suppliers to satisfy 
their delivery obligations.
Increases in finished goods and underlying commodity 
prices may negatively impact the Group’s trading margins.
The Group maintains flexible supply arrangements to facilitate 
switching between suppliers where necessary and uses a 
variety of freight forwarders to avoid reliance on any one 
transport link.
Supplier performance is monitored against operational and 
quality targets and reviewed by senior management. All external 
upholstered furniture suppliers are frequently inspected by the 
Group to ensure that production is proceeding smoothly and 
that quality standards are maintained.
Fixed prices are negotiated for finished goods and the scale 
of the Group enables it to achieve significant cost savings 
with supplier partners.
Risk Mitigation 22 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Employees
The success of the Group depends significantly on its ability 
to attract and retain a workforce that includes experienced 
sales, product design and production personnel and to 
retain members of its senior management team, many of 
whom have significant experience in the Group’s business 
and industry.
Employee remuneration is structured to be at attractive 
levels and to incentivise employees towards results that  
are aligned with the objectives of the Group. In addition, 
senior management may participate in equity in the Group 
or in longer term incentive plans operating over a three 
year cycle.
Succession plans have been developed for all senior 
management roles.
Financial risk and liquidity
A downturn in the macroeconomic environment may impact 
the Group’s ability to obtain financing.
An increase in interest rates could increase the Group’s 
financing costs. The Group is also exposed to foreign 
currency exchange risk on certain purchases sourced  
from overseas.
The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has 
sufficient medium and long term facilities in place, including 
a £30.0 million revolving credit facility in place until March 
2020 which is as yet unutilised.
Foreign exchange and interest rate risks are managed 
through the use of appropriate hedging arrangements  
in accordance with its Board-approved treasury policy. 
No financial instruments are entered into for  
speculative purposes.
Regulatory environment
The Group is subject to an increasing burden of compliance 
in many of its activities from regulatory and other authorities 
and is subject to regulatory risk with potential for significant 
financial impact or reputational damage. Changes to other 
legislation which may have significant retrospective or future 
economic effects could also impact operating results.
Following the Company’s admission to the London Stock 
Exchange on 11 March 2015 the Group is subject to 
increased regulatory obligations as a result of being listed, 
which will increase the Group’s legal and financial 
compliance costs and make some activities more time-
consuming and costly.
Comprehensive training and monitoring programmes are 
in place to ensure that employees are appropriately skilled 
to deliver high levels of customer service and maintain 
regulatory compliance.
A Reputational Risk Committee is in place to monitor 
management information and review processes and 
procedures to ensure our customers are treated fairly. 
This includes rigorous oversight and escalation processes 
to maintain the status of limited permission to offer 
consumer finance granted by the FCA.
The Group has appointed experienced non-executive 
directors to strengthen its Board of directors and support 
strong corporate governance. The Board is supported by 
an experienced senior management team, augmented as 
necessary by specialist third party advisors. Additional 
costs associated with the Group becoming a public 
company have been incorporated into the Group’s financial 
and operational plans to ensure appropriate levels of 
monitoring and control.
Risk Mitigation
Risks and uncertainties continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
23 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report 24 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
The Group delivered a good overall performance in FY15, 
outperforming furniture market growth rates, and achieving 
record sales and operating profits. Furthermore we  
have made continuing progress across all our strategic 
initiatives, giving me confidence that we will continue to 
deliver on our targets for growth. The dividend we have 
recommended is a clear expression of our belief that we 
are able to deliver both attractive earnings growth and 
cash returns for shareholders in future.
Chief Executive’s report
Ian Filby
Chief Executive Officer
Overview
I am pleased to report a further successful 
period of operational success and 
strategic progress. Leveraging the 
strength of our business model, we have 
successfully met our targets for near-term 
growth while maintaining very strong cash 
flows and also making the investments 
necessary to achieve long-term success.
The results for the last twelve months 
represent a record level of gross sales 
and adjusted EBITDA, and our cash 
conversion has remained outstanding. 
Reflecting this strong cash generation,  
we are pleased to be able to recommend 
payment of both an interim and final 
dividend, and can confirm that we have 
reduced our net debt below the level 
expected for year-end at the time of our 
IPO. We look forward to continuing to 
deliver both earnings growth and free 
cash flow for our shareholders.
Our strategic progress has also been 
exciting. Our branded ranges have 
continued to be positively received by 
consumers. We have been encouraged 
by our progress in the Netherlands and 
the positive results that we have seen to 
date from our small-store UK format.  
Our UK and ROI new store opening 
programme has continued to deliver 
incremental EBITDA, with six stores 
opened during the financial year, with 
each already now operationally profitable. 
We have also been able to continue to 
make more of our core store footprint 
through conversion of in-store 
warehouses into incremental retail space 
and establishing three further Customer 
Distribution Centres (‘CDCs’). We 
continue to see the benefits of our 
sector-leading investment in online,  
with exceptional growth in visitor traffic.
Our stated mission 
is creating and 
making sofas that 
every home loves 
and can afford
“
“
Growth strategy update
Broadening our appeal to customers
Our stated mission is “creating and 
making sofas that every home loves 
and can afford”. While we already have 
the leading competitive share in all 
consumer segments that we identify, 
our research suggests that we achieve 
different degrees of success in various 
consumer demographic segments.  
We have a clear focus on strengthening 
our share of the “aspirational 
consumer” segment of the furniture 
market, where we believe our 
handmade-to-order product and British 
manufacturing base should appeal 
strongly. To deliver on this strategy we 
are evolving aspects of our customer 
proposition, while seeking to maintain 
our core appeal to all customers. 
We have continued to develop our 
range of exclusive branded products, 
including new luxury leather ranges 
under the Iconica brand, and have 
started the sale of selected collections 
of sofas and sofabeds from Sofa 
Workshop and Dwell through our DFS 
stores and website. This is an exciting 
development alongside the growth of 
our Country Living, House Beautiful  
and French Connection brands. We 
have also continued to evolve our 
marketing approach, complementing 
our significant investment in advertising 
with an increased use of PR, direct 
marketing and sponsored advertising. 
Reflecting our continued progress  
and investment, orders for our  
Exclusive Branded ranges grew by 
75%. Furthermore, independent 
surveys conducted on our behalf 
suggest that we have now grown   Governance
25 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
We have successfully delivered on  
our targets for near-term growth while 
maintaining very strong cash flows and 
also making the investments necessary 
to achieve long-term success
“
“
our presence with the aspirational 
customer segment we are targeting 
from 18% to 23% (including Sofa 
Workshop and Dwell sales) and we 
continue to believe that we are on  
track to reach our 2018 target of  
25% segment share.
UK and ROI store roll-out
We have a strong track record of 
opening new DFS stores in the UK and 
ROI at a rate of three to five per annum, 
and this trend has continued over the 
last 12 months with five successful new 
openings of 10-15,000 sq. ft. stores. 
Using our established customer 
catchment area model, which leverages 
our comprehensive delivery postcode 
data, we are able to assess accurately 
the opportunity that exists for a new 
store and ensure that substantial 
incremental EBITDA is delivered. 
In order to establish how we can better 
access urban areas, we also opened a 
trial format 2,500 sq. ft. store in the 
Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, 
London in March 2015. Based on the 
success that we have seen to date we 
have taken the decision to open a 
further two trial small format stores.
Our Sofa Workshop business also 
opened standalone stores in Newbury 
and Westfield Stratford, and in August 
2015 opened shops in converted DFS 
warehouse space in Glasgow and 
Gateshead. Also in August 2015,  
Dwell opened stores in converted  
DFS warehouse space in Glasgow  
and New Malden.
International expansion
Building on the experience we gained  
in our successful entry into the Republic 
of Ireland, in November 2014 we 
opened our first trial store in Cruquius, 
near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. 
This move has been challenging, 
requiring us to operate with a different 
local language and under a new 
regulatory regime, while simultaneously 
establishing and growing our brand 
awareness with consumers. We have 
been encouraged by our progress to 
date. Our strong product range, 
in-house manufacturing expertise and 
service culture has proved to appeal to 
Dutch consumers despite the challenge 
of adverse currency movements. On 
the back of the positive results that we 
have seen to date we have taken the 
decision to open two further stores 
during the current financial year, one of 
which opened in September 2015 in the 
Alexandrium shopping mall/retail park in 
Rotterdam (10,000 sq. ft).
As discussed in our July trading update, 
our investment in future growth in the 
Netherlands is expected to lead to an 
increase in operating costs net of 
incremental revenue of £2–3 million 
in FY16.
A somewhat different, but likewise 
potentially exciting growth initiative  
has also commenced in Spain. On 
1 October 2015 we acquired a locally 
well-regarded business, branded “DFS 
Spain”, which has served the expatriate 
community from a single c. 5,000 sq. ft. 
store on the south coast of Spain for 
over a decade. In addition to securing 
the registered DFS trademark in Spain, 
which will now allow us to target DFS 
advertising to the expatriate market in 
Spain, we will benefit from a physical 
showroom presence, giving customers 
a local point to experience our range 
and allowing us to benefit from 
increased logistical efficiencies in Spain. 
Although we have no plans at present 
to grow our Spain showroom base, we 
see this acquisition as a positive step to 
unlock the potential of our strong brand 
recognition and online web offer on dfs.
co.uk with up to 800,000 expatriates 
from the UK currently living in Spain.
Retail space conversion
During the year we continued to pursue 
our CDC conversion programme, 
converting in-store warehouses into 
additional retail space and consolidating 
those warehouse operations into larger 
purpose-built off-site facilities. In August 
2015 we opened our sixth CDC in 
Bristol, and we have now released 
approximately 70,000 square feet of 
retail space across 12 stores. We 
currently plan to use this released 
space to sell dining and bedroom 
furniture, where we have had proven 
success; and we are also trialling the 
use of the space alternatively for Sofa 
Workshop or Dwell shop within shops 
or an extended DFS upholstery range.
Online
Our website dfs.co.uk maintained its 
sector leading presence, continuing to 
attract over 40% of upholstery sector 
web traffic over the course of the year. 
We have seen continued double-digit 
growth in online sales with the 
proportion of Group orders placed 
contributing materially to our sales. 26 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Key performance indicators
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
748.7
804.3
853.4
913.1
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
81.2
83.8
82.3
89.2
Non-financial KPIs
Number of DFS stores 
FY15: 105 
FY14: 100
Number of stores trading at the 
end of the financial period.
Net Promoter Score 
(customer service)
FY15: 78.8% 
FY14: 64.8%
Average across all DFS stores 
based on post purchase 
customer satisfaction surveys.
Online growth rate
FY15: + 17.5% 
FY14: +6.7%
Year on year change in sales 
generated by internet/telephone/
live chat channels.
Growth in Exclusive 
brand sales
FY15: 75% 
FY14: 55%
Year on year change in value of 
sales orders of exclusive brand 
product ranges.
Stores with converted 
warehouse space
FY15: 8 
FY14: 3
Weighted average number of 
DFS stores during the financial 
period where former warehouse 
space has been converted into 
retail space.
Gross sales (£m)
Gross sales represents the total 
amounts payable by external customers 
for goods and services supplied by  
the Group, including aftercare services 
(for which the Group acts as an agent), 
delivery charges and value added  
and other sales taxes.
Free cash flow (£m)
Free cash flow is 
Adjusted EBITDA,  
less gross capital 
expenditure and changes 
in working capital.
Cash conversion (%)
Cash conversion is free 
cash flow expressed as  
a percentage of  
Adjusted EBITDA.
Return on  
capital employed (%)
ROCE is post-tax 
operating profit before 
non-underlying items 
plus operating lease 
charges expressed as  
a percentage of the  
sum of: property, plant  
& equipment, computer 
software, working  
capital and 8x operating 
lease charges.
Adjusted EBITDA
1 
(£m)
Adjusted EBITDA means underlying 
earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation as 
adjusted for certain material, unusual  
or non-recurring items which the 
directors believe are not indicative of 
the Group’s underlying performance.
Financial KPIs
Continued growth in sales and EBITDA
FY14 FY15
91.4
79.2
FY14 FY15
20.9
21.2
FY14 FY15
75.2
70.7
1. No adjusted items in FY15. £2.3m of adjusted items in FY14 relating to start-up operating losses of acquired 
businesses and prior period bonus adjustments.
Consistently strong rates of return
Chief Executive’s report continued Governance
27 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
During the year we have also sought  
to increase the integration of our  
online technology with our store  
estate. We rolled out our online store 
appointment booking service nationwide, 
and are trialling the display of “virtual 
reality” representations of customer 
orders on in-store display screens. 
We have also launched the DFS Live 
app, allowing our customers to 
interact from their home using video 
functionality with our Live Chat team. 
Our online advisers are available 24x7 
and our customers now have the 
choice to interact using either in-store, 
video or telephone channels.
Customer service
We continue to strive to deliver the 
highest standards of customer service. 
Our approach relies both on proactive 
training and Net Promoter Score 
(“NPS”) linked incentivisation of our 
employees, combined with a feedback 
system that allows us accurately to 
measure and track the satisfaction of 
customers throughout their purchase 
down to the product, store, factory  
and employee level.
During the last 12 months we revised 
the pay structure for all sales teams to 
increase the importance of customer 
satisfaction scores. We have also 
commenced an incremental training 
programme to ensure all our front-line 
customer-facing colleagues possess 
at least a level 2 customer service 
NVQ award.
I am grateful for the positive way in 
which all our people have taken on, 
owned and driven forward our 
customer service approach over recent 
years and I would like to express my 
thanks for their efforts. 
Reflecting our service approach  
I am pleased to report that our  
post-purchase NPS is now over 80%. 
Because of this success in achieving 
exceptional rates of post-purchase 
customer satisfaction, we will broaden 
our focus to emphasise established 
customer satisfaction – the willingness 
of customers that purchased our 
products six months previously to 
recommend our products to their 
friends or family.
Management
I would like to thank Jon Massey for  
his distinguished service to the Group 
over the last 27 years. Jon informed  
the Group that he wished to retire from 
full-time executive employment and 
therefore it has been agreed with our 
IPO joint global coordinators that he will 
be released with immediate effect from 
the lock-up arrangements that currently 
apply to our senior managers.
I would also like to welcome Nick 
Collard to DFS, who has been 
appointed to the new role of Chief 
Commercial Officer as part of our 
executive committee. Nick has 
extensive retail knowledge and 
expertise from a distinguished career 
with Morrisons and Boots. He will 
strengthen the senior management 
team, focusing on product and range 
management and further enhancing  
our growth initiatives.
Corporate responsibility
At DFS we continue to work hard to put 
corporate responsibility at the heart of 
everything we do. The Group formulated 
an Energy Management Policy to support 
the reduction of our energy use, and we 
have continued to reduce vehicle 
emissions from our company car fleet, 
despite increases in store numbers and 
headcount. We also maintained our focus 
on the efficiency of our delivery fleet,  
and made further progress in working 
towards our long term goal of sending 
zero waste to landfill.
In the community, we have continued 
our partnership with the British Heart 
Foundation both in fundraising through 
the successful sofa recycling scheme 
and by training new and existing 
employees in CPR skills and defibrillator 
awareness. We also continued our 
support for BBC Children in Need for 
the second year.
Team GB partnership
We were delighted to announce in 
December that DFS was Team GB’s 
chosen official homeware partner for 
the Rio 2016 Olympic games. While we 
are of course proud to support our 
nation’s athletes as they seek to build 
on the success they saw in London 
2012, we believe that we will derive  
real operational benefits from this 
investment. First, we see significant 
potential to promote our brand with 
consumers, leveraging the strong 
consumer appeal of Team GB. 
Secondly, we are fortunate to be able 
to work with a number of athletes and 
Team GB ambassadors to develop our 
organisation operationally, using their 
marginal gains philosophy and also 
their one team approach to improve 
our employee engagement levels. 
We are excited at the potential that  
the partnership offers and how strongly 
it fits with a number of the strategic 
growth initiatives that we are pursuing.
Outlook
We have been reassured to see positive 
trends in UK disposable income and 
consumer confidence continuing, and  
we expect this to provide a supportive 
market environment for the furniture 
sector over the coming months. 
We further believe that the Group 
is well-positioned relative to its 
competitors and we thus have 
confidence that the business is in a 
strong position to sustain its track record 
of gross sales growth and furniture 
market share capture in 2015/16, albeit 
our performance will now be measured 
against the strong comparators of the 
financial year under review.
Overall the business enjoys excellent 
prospects to deliver long-term profitable 
growth, strong cash generation and a 
progressive dividend policy as one of 
the UK’s best-known brands, a major 
British manufacturer and the country’s 
leading retailer of upholstered furniture.
Ian Filby
Chief Executive Officer
7 October 2015 28 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial review 
We have delivered a strong financial performance  
in the period and undertaken several key  
development steps to create a strong stable  
platform for future growth.
Sales and Revenue
Group gross sales for the year 
increased by 7.0% to £913.1 million 
(FY14: £853.4 million), including a 5.8% 
increase in DFS sales as well as 
increased contributions from Dwell and 
Sofa Workshop. The mix of interest free 
credit offers selected by our customers 
resulted in a slightly higher increase in 
Group revenue, which grew by 7.5% to 
£706.1 million (FY14: £656.8 million). 
The slight reduction in growth rate in 
the second half of the financial year 
reflects the more demanding 
comparatives and the extra trading 
week last year, but continued to show 
strong momentum.
Gross margin
Continuing the trend of the first half 
year, gross profit increased at a faster 
rate than revenue, up 9.3% to 
£122.3 million (FY14: £111.9 million). 
While our planned investments in price 
points and changes in our product 
sales mix resulted in a slight decrease 
in gross margin on goods sold, this  
was offset by greater efficiencies in 
other direct costs. In particular the 
continuing growth in our UK store 
network and online sales has spread 
the costs of national advertising over  
a wider revenue base, reducing 
marketing costs as a proportion  
of sales. 
Bill Barnes
Finance Director
Central costs
Underlying administrative expenses 
rose by 3.8% primarily due to increased 
staff costs reflecting additional 
management capability to drive growth 
initiatives, additional costs relating to 
the central functions of the Dwell and 
Sofa Workshop businesses acquired in 
the previous financial year, and the first 
period of additional costs associated 
with our listed status. We anticipate 
‘plc’ costs, largely associated with 
share based remuneration charges,  
to increase by c.£1m per annum in each 
of the following two financial years.
Operating Profit and EBITDA
The net impact of the sales and margin 
effects noted above was an 8.4% 
increase in adjusted EBITDA for the  
year to £89.2 million (FY14: £82.3 million), 
with the adjusted EBITDA margin 
increasing by 10 basis points to 12.6% 
(FY14: 12.5%). Underlying operating  
profit rose 10.7% to £72.2 million  
(FY14: £65.3 million).
Non-underlying costs incurred in the 
period, mainly relating to the IPO and 
the Group’s international expansion, 
totalled £11.6 million (FY14: non-
underlying and adjusted items of 
£6.7 million). 
Non-recurring costs associated with 
newly acquired businesses or the 
establishment of operations in new 
geographical territories are treated as 
non-underlying in the first year, in line 
with our accounting policy. In FY15 
£2.8 million of non-underlying costs 
were related to international and 
acquired business start-up activity. 
Operating profit after non-underlying 
costs was broadly unchanged at 
£60.6 million (FY14: £60.9 million).
This is the first Financial Review since the Group listed in March 2015. For the 
majority of the year on which we are reporting a different pre-IPO capital structure 
was in place and the period also includes significant non-underlying costs of a 
non-recurring nature. Accordingly we have referred to adjusted underlying results 
where appropriate within this report in order to present a more meaningful analysis.
The table below is presented in order to show an underlying position.
Underlying 
£m
Non-underlying 
£m
2015 Total 
£m
EBITDA 89.2 (11.6) 77.6
Depreciation and amortisation (17.0) – (17.0)
Operating profit 72.2 (11.6) 60.6
Finance income 0.1 – 0.1
Finance expense (39.0) (11.0) (50.0)
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax 33.3 (22.6) 10.7
Taxation (10.4) 2.9 (7.5)
Profit/(Loss) for the year 22.9 (19.7) 3.2
Adjusted for:
Shareholder loan interest 16.6
Adjusted profit after tax 39.5
Dividend proposed (19.8)
Adjusted retained profit 19.7 Governance
29 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
Finance costs
As noted at the half year, the IPO and 
related refinancing significantly reduced 
the Group’s net debt and established a 
new financing structure with a much 
lower ongoing annual interest cost. 
The Group’s £310.0 million senior 
secured notes were repaid on 12 March 
2015 and a new senior bank facility of 
£200.0 million drawn down. We also 
renewed an undrawn revolving credit 
facility of £30.0 million, in order to 
maintain financial flexibility. In addition, 
previous shareholder loans and accrued 
interest of £192.7 million were converted 
into ordinary share capital. 
Finance costs include interest payable  
on a shareholder loan, for which 
£16.6 million is adjusted for on a post-tax 
basis in the table opposite as the loan 
was extinguished on the IPO. In addition, 
a total of £11.0 million was incurred on the 
redemption premium and charges 
connected with the repayment of the 
Group’s £310.0 million senior secured 
notes and these have been presented 
separately as exceptional finance costs.
We expect that finance costs in future  
will be significantly lower than those 
experienced historically, with our 
fully-hedged external cash borrowing 
cost falling to beneath 5% (including 
facility fees).
Tax
The tax charge reported for the year  
is distorted by certain non-underlying 
items which have been treated as 
non-deductible for Corporation Tax. 
Excluding these items, the underlying 
effective tax rate on underlying Profit 
Before Tax is 21.5%, slightly higher than 
the UK Corporation Tax rate applicable 
in the period of 20.7%.
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
An adjusted calculation of Earnings Per 
Share (‘EPS’) based on the 213.0 million 
ordinary shares in issue since the IPO, 
and adjusted earnings of £39.5 million 
in the table opposite, results in adjusted 
EPS of 18.5 pence per share.
Capital expenditure
Gross capital expenditure for the year 
was £22.9 million (FY14: £17 .8 million 
excluding the cost of acquisitions).  
The increase primarily related to new 
store openings, including both new DFS 
stores in the UK and overseas and the 
expansion of Sofa Workshop and Dwell, 
and the roll out of Customer Distribution 
Centres in the UK. We have also 
maintained our investment in the refit  
of existing stores and development of  
our retail website. This level of capital 
investment is likely to continue in  
the current financial year and be 
augmented by additional investment  
in international expansion.
Cash flow and balance sheet
The IPO, and related refinancing and 
changes in capital structure, resulted in 
the Group establishing a robust balance 
sheet to support future growth. We 
closed the year with cash of £40.7 
million, giving a net debt position of 
£162.2 million, providing significant 
cover in financing the proposed 
dividend and achieving a gearing ratio 
of 1.8x adjusted EBITDA, in line with our 
intention stated at IPO to reduce 
gearing to less than 2x by year end. 
Cash flow includes non-underlying 
expenditure associated with the IPO 
and refinancing of £27.6 million and 
returns to previous shareholders pre 
IPO of £20.0 million.
Cash flow is therefore analysed as follows:
 £m
Closing cash July 2015 40.7
Opening cash July 2014 53.8
Cash outflow in the year (13.1)
Adjusted for:
 IPO and associated refinancing 27.6
 Return to pre IPO shareholders 20.0
Adjusted underlying increase 
in cash 34.5
Our strong free cash flow generation 
means we continue to reflect very strong 
conversion levels from adjusted EBITDA. 
Working capital movements reflected the 
increased volumes in the business, 
providing inflows with our virtually 
stockless, made-to-order model and 
hence negative working capital. Our cash 
generation will continue to provide the 
opportunity to deliver further, even after 
the progressive dividend policy we intend 
to establish.
Dividend 
The strength of our operating results and 
cash flow enable DFS to make a strong 
statement of intent that we will deliver 
excellent returns to shareholders. The 
Board has therefore proposed both an 
interim dividend of 3.1 pence per share 
and a final dividend of 6.2 pence per 
share in respect of the financial year 
ended July 2015. Subject to approval of 
the final dividend at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 4 December 2015, 
the proposed final dividend and interim 
dividend will be paid on 30 December 
2015 to shareholders on the register on 
11 December 2015, and the shares will 
become ex-dividend on 10 December 
2015. The total return of 9.3 pence per 
share equates to a distribution of 
approximately 50% of adjusted underlying 
Profit After Tax. Notwithstanding our 
anticipated earnings growth, our reduced 
financing costs in FY16 alone will allow 
strong growth in this dividend and we 
plan to maintain a pay-out ratio of 
between 45-50% of Profit After Tax.
Bill Barnes
Finance Director
7 October 2015 30 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Environment
We have continued to work to increase 
our operational efficiency and reduce 
the potential impact of our activities  
on the environment. The Group has 
formulated an Energy Management 
Policy to support the reduction of the 
Group’s energy use where practical  
and consistent with the operational 
needs of the business. During the year 
we achieved ISO 14001 accreditation 
for our head office operations and are 
working to roll this out across our 
business in the year ahead.
Greenhouse gas data
Tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity measure 
(Tonnes C0
2
e per 
£m Revenue)
Scope 1 19,130 27.1
Scope 2 19,123 27.1
TOTAL 38,253 54.2
The changes to our company car 
programme that we initiated in 2012 
have continued to reduce our vehicle 
emissions (see box), despite increasing 
store numbers and headcount over  
that period. We have also maintained 
our focus on the efficiency of our 
delivery fleet.
Waste management remains an 
important consideration for the Group 
and we have made further progress in 
working towards our long term goal of 
zero waste to landfill. During the year 
we increased the amount of cardboard 
and polythene that was recycled by a 
further 4% and introduced a detailed 
system of waste reporting to support 
future improvements.
Going the extra mile
In March 2012, DFS began a new 
company car initiative in partnership 
with Hitachi to transition our company 
car fleet to more fuel efficient vehicles. 
At July 2014 more than 60% of our 
vehicles were from the new scheme  
and had average CO
2
 emissions of 
116.9g/km – a reduction of more than 
10% compared to the legacy fleet.  
As a result, even though the size of our 
fleet has grown in that time, total tonnes 
CO
2
e has actually decreased. As well as 
improving our environmental 
performance, this has also reduced the 
related tax burden on our employees. 
At DFS we work hard to put corporate responsibility at the heart of everything we do  
so that we can most effectively and efficiently deliver real value for everyone involved in 
our business. We count among our stakeholders, customers, employees, shareholders, 
suppliers and the people in the communities in which we operate. DFS is also a 
member of Business in the Community. Throughout our interaction with all these  
parties, we aim to make a positive impact on society and the environment in support  
of the Group’s longer term commercial and strategic objectives.
Our people
The continuing success of DFS owes  
a great deal to the exceptional team of 
people that we employ. 
DFS aims to reward its employees fairly. 
Our entry-level salaries, which account 
for fewer than 5% of our employees,  
are aligned to the independently 
determined Living Wage (which 
exceeds the level proposed by the UK 
government) and all employees are able 
to influence their earnings through 
reward schemes linked to performance. 
We also aim to support the health and 
welfare of our employees and their 
families through a variety of initiatives 
including life and critical illness cover 
and an employee assistance service. 
We remain strongly committed to 
helping all our employees to make  
the most of their talents through our 
continuing programmes of training and 
development. Internal training courses 
are accredited to National Standards 
and formal training was delivered  
during the year in a wide variety of 
areas including retail, business and 
administration, customer service, 
distribution and logistics. In addition  
we have introduced an industry-leading 
apprenticeship programme (see box).
DFS firmly believes in the benefits of  
a diverse workforce and the gender 
analysis of employee numbers is 
reported to the operating board on  
a monthly basis. 
Corporate responsibility Governance
31 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
Training the 
next generation
This year a group of 
eleven apprentices 
between 18 and 22 
years of age were 
recruited from across 
the UK to join our new 
Young Service Managers 
Apprenticeship Programme.  
In completing the two year course, participants will achieve a Level 2 
Diploma in Furniture, Soft Furnishings and Interiors, complete the Duke of 
Edinburgh Gold Award and gain crucial work experience to develop both 
their technical and customer services skills. Our apprentices are supported 
throughout the programme by business mentors as well as appointed 
pastoral carers to give them the best chance of success.
The benefits to participants of a recognised qualification and work experience 
in a relevant field are enormous, but so too are the benefits to our business. 
The steady decline of upholstery and furniture manufacturing in the UK 
presents an increasing challenge for DFS as we seek to recruit people with 
the right skill sets in upholstery and leather-working as well as a commitment 
to the highest standard of customer service. The Apprenticeship Programme 
allows us to develop our own future Service Managers, nurture scarce skills 
and increase the diversity of our talent pool.
4,390
Training days delivered to DFS 
employees in FY15
The gender balance of employees at July 2015 is given below:
July 2015 Female Male
Directors 2 29% 5 71%
Senior managers 3 19% 13 81%
All employees 1,216 33% 2,501 67%
Communication with employees is 
made through manager briefings, 
company presentations and 
conferences as well as regular 
newsletters, including a monthly  
update directly from the Chief 
Executive. Employee views are sought 
through regular feedback sessions with 
directors and an active programme of 
employee engagement surveys, the 
results of which are communicated 
back to staff.
DFS aims to support the health and 
welfare of our employees and their 
families through a variety of initiatives 
including life and critical illness cover, 
and an employee assistance service.  
It is the policy of the Group to support 
the employment of disabled people, 
wherever possible, both in recruitment 
and by retention of employees who 
become disabled whilst in the 
employment of the Group as well  
as generally through training and  
career development.
We were delighted to obtain external 
recognition for excellence in employee 
conditions by the award for the second 
year running of Top Employer certification 
from the Top Employers Institute. 32 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate responsibility continued
189
Externally accredited  
qualifications achieved by  
DFS employees in FY15
Health and safety
The health and well-being of our 
employees and customers is important 
to DFS and we strive for continuing 
improvement in managing health and 
safety risks across all of the Group’s 
operations. Employees receive general 
health and safety training as part  
of their induction, plus job-specific 
training where appropriate. We have a 
dedicated internal team who visit all of 
our stores and factories to monitor 
compliance with the Group’s health and 
safety policies and identify areas for 
improvement. The Board has instituted 
a regular review of best practice and 
performance, including reporting of any 
significant issues at each meeting.
Our customers
Our customers are at the very heart of 
our business so in pursuit of our vision 
of DFS being a world-class British 
business we need to deliver an 
outstanding experience for our 
customers, at all times.
We make significant investment in 
employee training and incentivisation  
to deliver the highest levels of customer 
service and ensure that we treat our 
customers well. Staff performance and 
customer satisfaction are monitored 
though regular inspections, surveys  
and mystery shoppers, which are 
carried out through an independent 
consumer research group. 
Customer referral is the perfect 
indicator of excellent customer 
satisfaction and we use Net Promoter 
Score (‘NPS') as a measure of 
recommendation, which provides  
us with an internationally recognised 
predictor with proven links to business 
success. A new customer feedback 
system has also been introduced which 
generates an action plan for low-
scoring customers to enable stores  
to follow up effectively on potential 
service issues.
These initiatives have successfully 
increased our NPS scores to record 
levels and have been recognised by the 
Institute of Customer Service in their 
2014 UK Customer Satisfaction Awards, 
where DFS won the Customer 
Feedback Strategy Award.
Our products and suppliers
DFS goes to great lengths to ensure  
the quality and safety of all the products 
it sells. Our own detailed quality  
checks are supported by the use of 
independent safety specialists, and all 
upholstered furniture items are offered 
with a ten year guarantee.
We have longstanding relationships  
with our upholstery suppliers and  
close contact with them is maintained 
through frequent visits by our operational 
and senior management. DFS has led the 
industry in establishing quality level 
agreements with all suppliers; these set 
targets for ways of working and service 
outcomes together with a dedicated 
forum for working in partnership with 
supplies to monitor and improve 
performance, including compliance  
with our ethical trading requirements.
Community
DFS has continued its partnerships  
with the British Heart Foundation both 
through fundraising via the sofa 
recycling scheme (see box) and training 
new and existing employees in CPR 
skills and defibrillator awareness that 
will help more people survive an out  
of hospital cardiac arrest.
We have also continued our support for 
BBC Children in Need for the second 
year, raising £700,000 through a variety 
of activities including offering customers 
a chance to win their entire order for 
free by entering a monthly competition. Governance
33 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
DFS remains a Gold Partner of the 
Duke of Edinburgh’s Award, supporting 
young people to develop new skills for 
work and life and contribute to their 
communities. A similar arrangement is 
in place in the Republic of Ireland where 
DFS is a Gold Partner of Gaisce –  
The President’s Award.
In addition to the major national 
charities above, DFS supports a 
number of charities and initiatives 
based locally to our operations, 
particularly those promoting 
opportunities for young people. 
Charitable donations made by the 
Group during the year amounted to 
£264,011 (FY14: £237,067).
During the year, we were also delighted 
to announce that DFS became Official 
Homeware Partner for Team GB in the 
run up to the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. 
We look forward using our expertise to 
providing a comfortable home away 
from home for the Team GB athletes to 
support their rest and relaxation during 
the Games.
Fighting for every heartbeat
Feedback from our customers highlighted that many 
were interested in the safe and convenient disposal 
of their old sofas but had no means of doing this. 
In response, we developed the DFS Sofa Recycling 
initiative in partnership with the British Heart 
Foundation (‘BHF').
Once customers receive notification that their new 
sofa is on its way they can call or go online to arrange 
the free collection of their old sofa at a time to suit 
them. The sofas then make their way to the many 
BHF furniture shops across Britain to be sold at 
a reasonable price, raising essential funds for the 
charity, while avoiding the old sofas being sent 
to landfill.
To date, our customers have raised over £6.7 million 
towards the BHF’s vital research to help it fight 
against coronary heart disease.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 7 October 2015.
Ian Filby Bill Barnes
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director 34 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Who we are
Board of directors
Our Board has  
a diverse mix of 
backgrounds, skills 
and experience  
and its members  
are committed to 
setting the strategic 
direction whilst 
maintaining the 
highest standards  
of corporate 
governance and 
instilling a sound 
framework for  
the control and 
management of the 
Group, driving it to 
further success.
Richard Baker
Non-Executive Chairman
(Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee)
N
Richard joined DFS in 2010 
following the acquisition of 
the business by Advent, for 
whom he has acted as an 
operating partner since 
August 2009. He has 29 
years of experience in the 
consumer and retail sector 
and was previously Chief 
Executive of Boots Group 
and Alliance Boots and Chief 
Operating Officer at the 
supermarket group Asda. 
Richard has been a non-
executive director of 
Whitbread plc since 2009 
and is currently non-
executive Chairman, having 
been appointed to the role in 
2014. He is also currently 
non-executive Chairman of 
the Global Advisory Council 
of Aimia Inc and he is an 
independent director of the 
Lawn Tennis Association. 
Richard has an MA (Hons) in 
Engineering Science from 
Cambridge University and a 
Diploma in Strategic Retail 
Management from Harvard.
Ian Filby
Chief Executive Officer
Ian joined DFS in 2010 and 
has 34 years of retail 
experience, primarily at 
Alliance Boots, where his 
most recent roles were Retail 
Brand Development Director 
and Trading Director. He is 
also currently non-executive 
Chairman of Shoe Zone plc 
and is a member of the 
British Retail Consortium 
Board, and Chairman of the 
British Retail Consortium 
Policy Board. Ian has an MA 
(Hons) in Chemistry from 
Cambridge University.
Bill Barnes
Finance Director
Bill joined DFS in 2003 and 
has 26 years of experience  
in the retail sector having 
spent 14 years at retailer 
Next plc where he was 
Group Financial Controller 
and Company Secretary.  
Bill has a B.Com (Bachelor  
of Commerce) from the 
University of Birmingham.  
He is a fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants.
Key:
N = Member of the  
Nominations Committee
A = Member of the Audit Committee
R = Member of the  
Remuneration Committee
I = Independent Non-Executive Director
S = Nominee of major shareholder Strategic report Financial statements Governance
35 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Strategic report
Luke Mayhew
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
N A R I
Luke joined DFS in October 
2014 and is currently 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee  
of InterContinental Hotels 
Group PLC and Trustee of 
BBC Children in Need. He 
was previously Chairman of 
the British Retail Consortium, 
a non-executive Director of 
Brambles Ltd and WH Smith 
PLC and Chairman of Pets  
at Home Group Limited.  
He served for 13 years on 
the Board of John Lewis 
Partnership, including as 
Managing Director of the 
Department Store division.
Julie Southern
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (Chairman of the 
Audit Committee)
N A R I
Julie joined DFS in February 
2015, and was previously 
with Virgin Atlantic from  
2000 to 2013, first spending 
ten years as CFO before 
taking on the role of Chief 
Commercial Officer in 2010. 
Prior to joining Virgin Atlantic, 
she was Group Finance 
Director of Porsche Cars GB 
and Finance and Operations 
Director of WH Smith’s 
subsidiary HJ Chapman  
& Co. Julie currently is a  
non-executive director of 
NXP Semiconductors and 
also Cineworld Group and 
Rentokil Initial plc where  
she chairs their Audit 
Committees. In addition,  
she is a non-executive 
director of Gategroup 
Holding AG where she  
chairs the Nomination and 
Compensation Committee. 
Julie is a qualified 
accountant, having trained 
with Price Waterhouse,  
and has a BA (Hons) in 
Economics from  
Cambridge University.
Gwyn Burr
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee)
N A R I
Gwyn joined DFS in 
December 2014 and 
previously served on the 
operating board of 
J Sainsbury plc and held 
various management 
positions within the 
supermarket group Asda. 
She is currently an 
independent non-executive 
director of Metro AG, 
Wembley National Stadium 
Limited (due to cease on 
9 October 2015), 
Hammerson plc and  
Just Eat plc. She is also  
a non-executive director of 
Sainsbury’s Bank plc.  
Gwyn has a BA (Hons) in 
Economics and History from 
Bradford University.
Andy Dawson
Non-Executive Director
S
Andy joined DFS in 2010  
in connection with the 
acquisition of DFS by Advent. 
He is a Partner of Advent 
and coordinates Advent’s 
retail activities in Europe.  
He has over 10 years of 
experience in private equity 
focused on the retail sector. 
Andy has an MA (Hons)  
in Engineering from 
Cambridge University. 36 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Introduction
The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015, in 
accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006. Certain disclosure requirements for inclusion in this report have 
been incorporated by way of cross reference to the Strategic report and the Directors’ remuneration report, and should be 
read in conjunction with this report. 
The following also form part of this report:
• greenhouse gas emissions, which can be found on page 30;
• employees, which can be found on pages 30 and 31;
• the corporate governance statement, set out on pages 39 to 45; and
• our strategy and objectives, set out on pages 12 to 19.
Information regarding the Company’s charitable donations can be found in the corporate responsibility report on pages 32  
to 33. No political donations were made in 2015 (2014: £nil).
The Company
DFS Furniture plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK, with registration number 07236769.
The Company changed its name from Diamond Holdco 1 Limited to DFS Furniture Limited on 3 February 2015. On 
18 February 2015, the Company re-registered as a public limited company and changed its name to DFS Furniture plc.  
On 6 March 2015, conditional dealings of the Company’s shares began on the London Stock Exchange and on 
11 March 2015 the Company was admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange. The Company  
has no overseas subsidiaries but operates branches in the Republic of Ireland and the Netherlands.
Results and dividends
The Group’s results for the year are set out in the consolidated financial statements on pages 77 to 104. The Company only 
results of DFS Furniture plc are set out on pages 105 to 107. The Directors have declared an interim dividend of 3.1 pence per 
share and also proposed a final dividend of 6.2 pence per share to be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015. 
It is intended that both dividends will be paid on 30 December 2015 to all shareholders on the register on 11 December 2015. 
The Company’s shares will trade ex-dividend from 10 December 2015.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who held office at the date of this annual report and their biographical details can be found on 
pages 34 to 35. Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee, the Board considers that all Directors continue 
to be effective, committed to their roles and able to devote sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities. 
All of the Directors were appointed to the Company on 2 February 2015 and will retire from office and seek re-election at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting on 4 December 2015 in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
Mike Ristaino also served as a Director of the Company until 3 February 2015 when he resigned as a result of the 
IPO process.
Directors’ interests
Information about the Directors’ interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company on 1 August 2015 or date of appointment  
if later, and any subsequent changes as at 6 October 2015 is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 72.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles, the Company has purchased and maintains 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover which remains in place as at the date of this report. A review will be carried  
out on an annual basis to ensure that the Board remains satisfied that an appropriate level of cover is in place.
The Company also purchased Public Offering of Security liability insurance to provide cover for liabilities incurred by the 
Directors in the performance of their duties or powers in connection with the issue of the Prospectus in relation to the listing  
of the Company’s shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Employees
As at year end the Company employed 3,717 employees (as set out in the gender analysis table on page 31).
Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements Governance
37 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association of the Company can only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.  
No amendments are proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company’s first AGM since listing will take place on 4 December 2015 at Warmsworth House, Holiday Inn, High Road, 
Warmsworth, Doncaster, DN4 9UX at 2.30pm, and the Chairs of each of the Board’s Committees will be present to answer 
questions put to them by shareholders. The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM, including the resolutions  
to be proposed, will be sent to shareholders at least 21 clear days prior to the date of the meeting.
To encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the Company proposes to offer electronic proxy voting  
through the CREST service and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at the meeting on an individual basis by 
shareholders or their proxies. Voting results will be announced through the Regulatory News Service and made available  
on the Company’s website.
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. Following the 
Company’s IPO it has one class of Ordinary Shares. As at 6 October 2015 the Company had an issued share capital  
of 213,030,601 Ordinary Shares of £1.50 each.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by UK law and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at general meetings.  
On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or duly authorised corporate representatives) shall  
have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
Other than the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation, there are no specific restrictions  
on the size of a holding or on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of the Company’s shares that may result in the restriction of the transfer of securities or on voting rights except for the 
lock-up undertakings agreed at the time of Admission by certain significant corporate and individual shareholders, as detailed 
below. No shareholder holds securities carrying any special rights or control over the Company’s share capital.
Shareholder Lock-up period Number of shares
Advent Diamond (Luxembourg) Sàr.l. 180 days from admission 113,361,359
Richard Baker 365 days from admission 4,824,402
Ian Filby 365 days from admission 1,313,208
Bill Barnes 365 days from admission 698,626
Jon Massey 365 days from admission 787,925
Ian MacGuffog 365 days from admission 301,374
EBT (see note) 365 days from admission 5,143,453
Note: At 1 August 2015, the shareholdings of certain members of senior management were held via an Employment Benefit 
Trust. It is intended that these shareholdings will be transferred to the individual managers concerned (and spouses where 
appropriate) but will still be subject to the lock-up period noted above.
Authority to purchase own shares
As part of the IPO, at a general meeting of the Company on 17 February 2015, the Company was authorised to purchase  
a maximum of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital immediately following Admission to the London Stock Exchange. 
This authority will expire at the close of the 2015 AGM. 38 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Authority to allot shares
As part of the IPO, at a general meeting of the Company on 17 February 2015 the Company was granted a general authority 
by its shareholders to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of:
• £250,000,000 in connection with the pre IPO group reorganisation;
• £100,000,000 in connection with the IPO;
• £130,000,000 in any other case.
As at the date of this Annual Report shares with a total nominal value of £276,930,684 have been issued under these authorities. 
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM unless revoked, varied or renewed prior to that meeting.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2015 AGM to renew these authorities.
Major interests in shares
As at 6 October 2015, the Company had been advised of the following notifiable interests in the Company’s voting rights:
Shareholder
Number of  
voting rights at  
1 August 2015 and 
6 October 2015
% voting rights at 
1 August 2015 and 
6 October 2015
Advent Diamond (Luxembourg) Sàr.l. 113,361,359 53.2
Richard Baker* 4,824,402 2.3
* Deemed to be actively in-concert with Advent Diamond (Luxembourg) Sàr.l.
Financial risk management
The Company’s objectives and policies on financial risk management, including information on credit, liquidity and market 
risks can be found in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Going concern
The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has sufficient medium and long term facilities in place, including £200.0 
million of a senior loan facility maturing in 2020 and a £30.0 million revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 which is as yet 
unutilised. Further details of these facilities and the Group’s financial management objectives are detailed in the financial statements.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, forecasts and projections, the Company’s directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the Directors at the date of this report confirms that:
• so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• he/she has taken all the reasonable steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware  
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint it as the Company’s 
auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Subsequent events
Subsequent events between 1 August 2015 and the date of signing this report are detailed in Note 28 to the financial 
statements.
This report has been approved by the Board of Directors and has been signed on its behalf by:
Paul Walker
Company Secretary
7 October 2015
Directors’ report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
39 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to introduce DFS Furniture plc’s first corporate governance report since our IPO in March 2015.
The Admission of the Company’s shares to the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 11 March 2015 followed 
approximately five years of successful private-equity ownership by Advent. During this time, we had already established  
many good governance practices including regular and structured Board meetings with active participation by Executive  
and Non-Executive Directors alike, along with active Audit and Remuneration Committees comprised solely of  
Non-Executive Directors. 
Building on these firm foundations, we took the opportunity of the Company’s IPO to review and refresh our Board and 
Committee governance arrangements, with the aim of bringing them in line with recognised good practice for publicly quoted 
companies based on the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, including the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“Governance Code”).
This has included:
1. Appointing three new independent Non-Executive Directors in advance of our IPO: Luke Mayhew, Gwyn Burr and Julie 
Southern. These experienced individuals provide diverse, valuable and fully independent representation to our Board as 
well as proven track records in business at a high level and expertise of relevance to the Company. 
2. Reconstituting the Audit and Remuneration Committees with our new independent Directors and with updated terms of 
reference, and appointing a new Nomination Committee on a similar basis. Each of these Committees is fully compliant 
with the recommendations of the Governance Code. 
3. Appointing Luke Mayhew as our Senior Independent Director. 
4. Formalising other governance arrangements such as the division of responsibilities between Ian Filby as CEO and myself 
as Chairman and expanding the matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board (reported on more fully in the 
report of our Board commencing on page 41. 
5. Moving the remuneration of our Executive Directors towards more typical practice for listed companies (reported on more 
fully in the report of our Remuneration Committee commencing on page 53).
However, since the Company listed only recently, it has not yet been practicable and/or meaningful to fully comply with the 
provisions of the Governance Code; however, we shall endeavour to progress towards full compliance, wherever possible, 
in a reasonable period of time. The key constituents necessary to deliver a robust structure are in place and, accordingly,  
this report includes a description of how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the Governance Code 
since 11 March 2015 and how it intends to apply those principles in the future.
Corporate governance
Richard Baker
Non-Executive Chairman 40 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Board composition
The Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman and six other Directors, of whom only three are considered to 
be wholly independent. The Governance Code recommends that at least half the board of directors of a UK listed company, 
excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent in character 
and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors’ 
judgement. Although we are compliant with the Governance Code in this regard, the Board intends that in the future at least 
half of its members should be Independent Non-Executive Directors. On Admission we stated that to achieve this objective a 
fourth Independent Non-Executive Director may be appointed to the Board following Admission although such person has not 
been identified as at the date of this report.
On Admission, we noted an area of ongoing non compliance with the Governance Code due to the fact that I, the Company’s 
Non-Executive Chairman, am, for the purposes of the Governance Code, not considered to have been independent on my 
appointment as Chairman back in 2010 due to my role as an Operating Partner at Advent. However, following Admission, I 
have not acted on behalf of Advent in respect of its investment in the business, nor have I received any remuneration from 
Advent in respect of my role at DFS. Advent, being the current majority shareholder, and the other members of the Board are 
unanimously of the opinion that I can continue to be a valuable asset to the Company, bringing a wealth of experience in 
public companies and a keen understanding of retail businesses, as well as being independent in character and judgement.
Company structure
I look forward to reporting to you next year on how our governance arrangements continue to develop. This will include a 
report on the evaluation to be undertaken of the effectiveness of our Board in the first year since the Company’s IPO and on 
any actions we undertake in response to this. We view measurement of performance, targeting improvement and reporting 
results to be as important for us as a Board as it is for our business.
Richard Baker
Chairman
7 October 2015
DFS Furniture plc Board
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
Non-Executive Director
3 Independent Non-Executive Directors
2 Executive Directors
Audit Committee
Members:
3 Independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration Committee
Members:
3 Independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Nominations Committee
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
3 Independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Corporate governance continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
41 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012: Introduction
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and maintaining a sound framework for the 
control and management of the Group.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012. A copy of the 
Governance Code can be found at www.frc.co.uk.
This report, which incorporates reports from the Audit and Nomination Committees on pages 46 to 52 together with the 
Strategic report, the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 53 to 73 and the Directors’ report on pages 36 to 38, describes 
how the Company has applied the relevant principles of the 2012 Governance Code.
A new version of the Governance Code was published in September 2014 and applies to financial years beginning on or after 
1 October 2014. The Company will therefore apply the principles of the new Code going forward.
Compliance statement
The Company adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code on Admission of the Company’s shares to the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange on 11 March 2015. Since that date, the Company has applied all except three of the main principles 
of the Code as listed below: 
• A.3.1 The Chairman was not independent on appointment. 
• B.6 and A.4.2 The Board has not carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance or that of the Chairman, given 
the Board and its Committees have been operating for less than a year. A formal evaluation process will be carried out 
during the forthcoming financial year.
The role of the Board
The Board currently consists of three Independent Non-Executive Directors, two Non-Executive Directors (including the 
Non-Executive Chairman) and two Executive Directors. Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 34 to 35.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and for leading and controlling the Group and 
has overall authority for the management and conduct of the Group’s business, strategy and development. The Board is also 
responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management (including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place) and for the approval of 
any changes to the capital, corporate and/or management structure of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Finance Director (FD) sit on the Board and two levels of management sit below the 
Board: the Executive Board and the Operating Board, each of which are led by the CEO. The CEO and FD therefore act as a 
bridge between management and the Board. The Board delegates to management the day-to-day running of the business 
within defined parameters. Board meetings are scheduled to coincide with key events in the corporate and trading calendar 
and in future this will include the interim and final results and the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has delegated other specific 
responsibilities to its Committees. This schedule sets out key aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does  
not delegate, including:
• approval of the annual Group budget and strategic four year business plan and review of performance against them, 
including approval of growth activities into new markets or countries;
• approval of the interim/annual report and accounts and any preliminary announcement, including approval of dividend 
policy/payments;
• approval of treasury policies, material guarantees, granting of security and entry into/material amendment of loan facilities;
• approval and review of the management of balance sheet foreign exchange exposure;
• approval of material finance and operating leases and approval of major investments including corporate/capital 
acquisitions/disposals;
• approval of changes to the Group’s capital structure including reductions of capital and share issues/buybacks;
• approval of recommendations from the Audit, Remuneration or Nomination committees; 
• ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives;
• approval of changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board and any other control structure;
• maintenance of a sound system of internal controls and risk management, including approval of the Group’s risk register; and
• any decision likely to have a material impact on the Group from any financial, operational, strategic or reputational perspective. 42 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who has responsibility for ensuring 
compliance with the Board’s procedures. All the Directors have the right to have their opposition to, or concerns over,  
any Board decision noted in the minutes. The Board has adopted guidelines by which Directors may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in the performance of their duties.
Given the relatively recent date of the IPO, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have not yet met without the 
Executives present in the period between the listing on 11 March 2015 and 1 August 2015. However, such meetings have 
been scheduled for the forthcoming financial year.
Board committees
Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board has delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees certain authorities. There are written terms of reference for each of these Committees, available on the Group’s 
corporate website, www.dfscorporate.co.uk, and separate reports for each Committee are included in this Annual Report 
from pages 46 to 73.
Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Board is chaired by Richard Baker, who was appointed in 2010 whilst the Group was under Advent’s private ownership. 
The Chairman of the Company is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.  
Ian Filby is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for managing the profitable operation of the Company to create 
shareholder value by promoting the long term success of the Company. The role is distinct and separate to that of the 
Chairman and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing,  
as summarised below:
Role of the Chairman
• managing the business of the Board including organising and chairing regular meetings;
•  ensuring the submission to the Board by the Chief Executive of objectives, policies and strategies for the Group,  
including the Group business plan and annual budget; 
•  keeping under review with the Board the general progress and long term development of the Group and ensuring that 
effective strategic planning for the Company is undertaken; 
•  facilitating the contributions of Non-Executive Directors to the leadership of the Group;
•  holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present, as appropriate; 
•  ensuring effective communication between the Board and the Company’s shareholders;
•  acting on the results of the Board’s annual review of its and its Committees’ and individual Directors’ performances; and
•  appraising the performance of the Chief Executive and making appropriate recommendations as to his or her remuneration 
to the Remuneration Committee. 
Role of the Chief Executive Officer
•  managing the Group’s physical, financial and human resources; 
•  planning the Group’s strategies effectively; 
•  ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant legislation and regulatory requirements; 
•  allocating duties and responsibilities to Directors; 
•  reviewing the performance of the other Executive Directors and making appropriate recommendations as to their 
remuneration to the remuneration committee; 
•  managing the Group’s relations with shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulators, other public organisations, other 
companies and the media; and 
•  keeping the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors informed in respect of all relevant matters.
Corporate governance continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
43 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Role of the Senior Independent Director (SID)
The Governance Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a company with a premium listing on the official list of the 
London Stock Exchange (“Official List”) should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior 
Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors 
when necessary. The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal 
channels through the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve, or for which such channels would be 
inappropriate. Luke Mayhew has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Board balance and independence
As mentioned in the Chairman’s introduction, DFS can not be fully compliant with the recommendations of the Governance 
Code in this area, but intends to mitigate any perceived risks by managing the Board composition accordingly in due course. 
The Company has a relationship agreement (“the Relationship Agreement”) in place with its principal shareholder, Advent,  
and with the current Chairman, Richard Baker. 
The principal purposes of the Relationship Agreement are to ensure that:
• the Group and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business independently of Advent and/or Richard Baker;
• all transactions and arrangements between the parties are conducted at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms; and
• neither party take any action or propose a shareholder resolution that would have the effect of preventing the Group from 
complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Advent is entitled to nominate for appointment to the Board one Nominee 
Director who is approved as being suitable by the Nomination Committee. This entitlement will remain in force for so long as 
Advent holds, in the aggregate, at least 15% of the ordinary share capital or voting rights of the Company. The Nominee 
Director appointed by Advent is Andy Dawson.
Length of appointments
Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for an initial period of three years, are subject to annual re-election by 
shareholders at the Company’s annual general meeting and to any requirements of the Listing Rules and are contingent on 
continued satisfactory performance.
Information, meetings and attendance
The Board met on a number of occasions during the year prior to Admission. Since then the Board has met five times before 
the financial year end to review operational and trading performance including the approval of the updated strategic four year 
plan and budget for the next financial year. 
The Board has a full programme of Board meetings planned for the year ahead and intends to meet six times, with two 
additional telephone meetings to review important trading periods. At these meetings, the Board will monitor the Company’s 
performance against the agreed strategy and business plan and review specific business areas in order to maintain a broad 
and thorough understanding of the business model.
In respect of the five Board meetings held since the IPO and before the financial year end, there was full attendance apart 
from one meeting where five of the seven Directors attended. The relatively recent timing of some Board appointments meant 
that it was not possible to arrange meetings at which all Directors were available to join due to their existing commitments. 44 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Information, meetings and attendance continued
A summary of meeting attendance for the year is as follows:
Date of 
joining DFS Board Audit Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Total meetings in financial year 11 4 2 –
Richard Baker July 2010 11/11 1/2 1/1 –
Ian Filby July 2010 11/11 – – –
Bill Barnes Oct 2003 11/11 – – –
Andy Dawson July 2010 11/11 2/2 1/1 –
Luke Mayhew Oct 2014 9/10 4/4 2/2 –
Gwyn Burr Dec 2014 6/7 1/3 1/1 –
Julie Southern Feb 2015 6/7 2/2 1/1 –
Notes:
1. In addition to the 11 Board meetings referred to in the table, a further two meetings were held, specifically as part of the 
IPO process, where there was full attendance.
2. Immediately prior to the IPO, Richard Baker and Andy Dawson stood down from the Audit and Remuneration Committees, 
in accordance with the independence requirements of the Governance Code.
3. The meetings included in the table also include the meetings held by DFS Furniture Holdings plc, the Group’s previous 
reporting parent company prior to Admission.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, 
timely and clear information. Prior to each scheduled Board meeting, a pack is circulated in respect of the most recent 
financial period which includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance against budget and includes 
detailed financial and non-financial data and analysis. Board packs are distributed in the week prior to each meeting to 
provide sufficient time for Directors to review their papers in advance. If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting for any 
reason, they nonetheless receive the relevant papers and are consulted prior to the meeting and their views are made known 
to the other Directors.
Conflicts of interest
The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations for authorisation by the Board are the personal 
responsibility of each Director. All Directors are required to ensure that they keep these duties under review and to inform the 
Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions.
The Company’s conflict of interest procedures are reflected in its Articles of Association (“Articles”). In line with the Companies 
Act 2006, the Articles allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate. The 
decision to authorise a conflict can only be made by non-conflicted Directors. The Board considers conflicts or potential 
conflicts at each Board meeting.
The Articles require the Company to indemnify its officers, including officers of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities 
arising from the conduct of the Group’s business, to the extent permitted by law. For a number of years, the Group has 
purchased Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and this is anticipated to continue.
Development
In preparation for listing all Directors received an induction briefing from the Company’s legal advisers on their duties and 
responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company. Furthermore, the new Non-Executive Directors have met key 
members of Senior Management in order to familiarise themselves with the Group and have spent time in the business to  
gain experience of the day-to-day operations.
During the coming year, the Chairman will review and agree with each Non-Executive Director their individual training and 
development needs. In addition, under the guidance of the Chairman, the Company Secretary will establish a formal induction 
training process for new Directors.
Corporate governance continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
45 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Board evaluation
A significant number of the Directors were only appointed in the months immediately preceding the listing in March 2015.  
The Board believes that a meaningful evaluation of the Board can only take place after it has been working together for a 
reasonable time and has therefore not yet completed a formal review of Board performance. An evaluation policy will be 
developed and implemented during the next financial year.
The Senior Independent Director, Luke Mayhew, together with the Independent Non-Executive Directors, will evaluate the 
performance of the Chairman.
Election of Directors
The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board. Any  
Director so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next following AGM and shall then be eligible for election by 
shareholders. The forthcoming AGM will be the Company’s first since registering as a public company. In accordance with the 
Articles, all the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held at Warmsworth House, Holiday Inn, 
High Road, Warmsworth, Doncaster, DN4 9UX, on 4 December 2015, full details of which are set out in the notice of meeting 
accompanying this Annual Report.
As noted above, the current Board has been in post for only a short period of time and so a formal evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its principal committees and the individual Directors would be of limited value. However, pending 
the development and implementation of a formal evaluation process during the forthcoming financial year, the Board is 
satisfied that each Director remains competent to discharge his/her responsibilities as a member of the Board.
External appointments
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their 
ability to perform their duties as Executive Directors of the Company. At the time of the IPO it was noted that Ian Filby was, 
and continues to be, Non-Executive Chairman of Shoezone plc and a director of IFF Life and Business Solutions Limited and 
the British Retail Consortium. The Board considers that these appointments do not adversely impact his ability to carry out  
his role.
The Non-Executive Directors’ appointment letters anticipate a minimum time commitment of two days per month, recognising 
that there is always the possibility of an additional time commitment and ad hoc matters arising from time to time, particularly 
when the Company is undergoing a period of increased activity. The average time commitment inevitably increases where a 
Non-Executive Director assumes additional responsibilities such as being appointed to a Board Committee.
Relations with shareholders
As part of the IPO process in the earlier part of 2015, the Board met with a large number of investors. These meetings 
involved the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and other Senior Management, where appropriate.
As part of its future investor relations programme, DFS will aim to maintain an active dialogue with its key stakeholders, 
including institutional investors, to discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group including strategy and new 
developments. The recent permanent appointment of a new member of the senior management team responsible for Investor 
Relations reflects the Group’s commitment to this important aspect of being a publicly quoted company.
The Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter stakeholders might wish to raise. Investor relations activity 
and analysis of the share register are ongoing items of review by the Board.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available to attend investor relations meetings or to request meetings with 
investors or analysts independently of the Group’s management, if required. 46 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Audit Committee report
Julie Southern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Chairman’s introduction
As noted earlier in this report, we took the opportunity of the Company’s IPO to review and refresh the existing Committee 
governance arrangements. As a consequence, the current Audit Committee terms of reference were approved on 
22 February 2015 ahead of Admission, which coincided with the commencement of my chairmanship. The Committee’s 
terms of reference conform to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (“Governance Code”) and are 
available on the Company’s corporate website at www.dfscorporate.co.uk.
The Committee comprises only independent Directors and under its terms of reference is required to meet at least three  
times in each year at appropriate times in the financial reporting and auditing cycle. Outside of the formal meeting programme, 
the Audit Committee is committed to maintaining meaningful dialogues with key individuals involved in the Company’s 
governance, including my fellow Board members, the external audit lead partner and the head of the internal audit function. 
Clearly, this Annual Report, being the first as a public company, places greater emphasis on the Audit Committee to assist  
the Board to discharge its duty to ensure that the report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable. 
As a result, I explain in this report how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities, with specific reference to the 
requirement of the Governance Code to address significant reporting issues for the financial statements and to explain how 
the Committee assessed external audit effectiveness and safeguards in relation to the provision by the auditor of non-audit 
services. This report also covers how the Committee has considered that an effective system of internal control and risk 
management is in place.
Although the Company has only been recently admitted to the London Stock Exchange it was of course a listed company 
between 1993 and 2004. I have been pleased to find that the approach to financial and risk management that one would 
expect in a listed company has been maintained under private ownership. The Committee has a sound platform to build on 
and there is a positive and engaged attitude within the Company to develop further.
Now that its operations are fully established, it is planned for the Committee’s effectiveness to be independently reviewed in 
line with the general review of the Board and all its other committees in the year ahead.
Julie Southern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
7 October 2015 Strategic report Financial statements Governance
47 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Composition
Prior to listing, the Audit Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, including Richard Baker (as its Chair) and  
Andy Dawson, both of whom stood down from the Audit Committee at IPO in accordance with the independence 
requirements of the Governance Code
Since the IPO, the Audit Committee is chaired by Julie Southern and its other members are Luke Mayhew and Gwyn Burr. 
The Governance Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee are Non-Executive Directors, independent in 
character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, 
affect their judgement and that one such member has recent and relevant financial experience. The Board considers that, by 
virtue of her current and former executive and non-executive roles, details of which are set out on page 35, Julie Southern has 
recent and relevant financial experience and the Company complies with the requirements of the Governance Code in this 
respect. Similarly, both Luke Mayhew and Gwyn Burr have extensive relevant commercial and operational experience in large 
organisations which will benefit the Committee. Biographies of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are included on 
pages 34 and 35.
The Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and Chairman attend meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation, as do 
KPMG LLP and other members of management or the Board as appropriate. The Company Secretary also attends by 
invitation in order to maintain a record of the meetings.
Roles and responsibilities
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to the oversight of:
• financial reporting;
• internal controls and risk management systems;
• compliance, whistleblowing and fraud; and
• internal and external audit.
In particular, this includes:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and half-yearly reports, and any other 
formal announcement relating to its financial performance including a review of any significant financial reporting 
judgements contained therein;
• reviewing the Group’s processes and procedures for ensuring that material business risks are properly identified  
and managed;
• reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial controls and risk management systems;
• receiving regular reports on significant litigation and compliance issues;
• reviewing the Group’s arrangements with regard to employee/contractor whistleblowing, fraud detection, prevention of 
bribery and money-laundering;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function in the context of the Group’s overall risk 
management system;
• overseeing the Group’s relationship with its external auditor, including their appointment, remuneration, independence and 
the effectiveness of the audit process; and
• developing and implementing a policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the half-yearly reports remains 
with the Board. The Audit Committee will give due consideration to laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Audit Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and advises the Board on whether, taken as  
a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Activities of the Audit Committee
Prior to listing, the Audit Committee of the Group met twice to discuss and approve the full year results for FY 2014 and, in 
preparation for the IPO, to discuss and approve the first quarter results for FY 2015. Since the IPO, the Committee has met 
three times, firstly in March 2015, to discuss and approve the half year results for FY 2015, and secondly in June 2015, to 
review and approve KPMG’s continuing appointment, audit strategy and fees for the audit of FY 2015 full year results. 
Attendance at those meetings is shown on page 44. 48 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Activities of the Audit Committee continued
In October 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved a non-audit services policy and the internal audit scope and 
programme for FY 2016. In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved, for consideration by the Board, the financial 
results for the 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015 including a review of the full year external audit. As part of that review process, 
the members of the Committee reviewed the Annual Report, the adequacy of the disclosure with respect to going concern 
and whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
This additional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by advice received from external advisers during the drafting 
process, assisted the Board in determining that the report was fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it was 
approved. The Committee considered the appropriateness of preparing the accounts on a going concern basis, including 
consideration of forecast plans and supporting assumptions and concluded that the Company’s financial position was such 
that it continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
In addition to the formal meetings noted above, and as part of the IPO and their induction into their new roles, all of the current 
Audit Committee members reviewed the Company’s risk register and the various internal policies in place. 
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements
The Committee, together with management and the Group’s external auditor, considered the following significant matters in 
relation to the financial statements and how these were addressed.
• Impairment of intangible assets
 The Group holds significant goodwill in the business following the acquisition of the DFS Group in 2010 by Advent and the DFS 
Group’s subsequent acquisition of The Sofa Workshop Limited. In addition, the Group has recognised the value of the respective 
brands of Sofa Workshop and Dwell as intangible assets. As required by accounting standards, management have completed 
an annual impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill for each cash-generating unit, and in total, details of which are set 
out in Note 9 to the financial statements. This review highlighted that no impairment charge was required.
• Non-underlying items
 During the year the Group was admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) and 
also refinanced its borrowings. As a result, management has identified £22.6m of expenses relating directly to these events, and 
other non-recurring costs as non-underlying items and therefore to be disclosed separately. The Committee is satisfied that 
these costs fall outside the recurring operations of the business and therefore their separate disclosure as non-underlying is 
considered reasonable and in line with the Group’s accounting policy.
• Share-based incentives
 As a result of Admission, the Group implemented a number of new share-based incentive schemes for senior management. 
The valuation methods and the related assumptions for these schemes are subject to management judgement. There is a 
risk that these instruments are not valued correctly and therefore an incorrect charge is recognised in the financial 
statements. The Group’s external auditor has independently audited the valuation models used by management and the 
assumptions used in calculating the Group’s IFRS 2 charge. Further share-based incentive schemes are planned to be 
implemented in FY 2016. Valuations for grants under these new schemes will be reviewed by the Group’s external auditor.
• Provisions and long-term accruals
 Several of the Group’s provisions and accruals, which primarily relate to the estimated cost of the retail customer 
guarantees provided and claims relating to historical sales of Payment Protection Insurance, continue to require significant 
judgement in assessing their appropriateness and quantum. Management have considered the rationale and basis for 
these provisions and long term accruals to assess their reasonableness and adequacy which has been reviewed and 
agreed by the Group’s external auditor in conjunction with their substantive testing.
Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit process
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor and considers the re-appointment of the Company’s 
auditor, KPMG LLP, before making a recommendation to the Board to be put to shareholders. As part of this responsibility, 
the Committee approved the audit plan for the 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015 and reviewed the auditor’s findings and 
management representation letters. Prior to recommending the appointment of KPMG LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the 
Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the extended audit process, the performance of the auditor and its ongoing 
independence, taking into consideration input from management, responses to questions from the Committee and the audit 
findings reported to the Committee. Based on this review, the Committee concluded that the external audit process had been 
run efficiently and that KPMG LLP has been effective in its role as external auditor.
Audit Committee report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
49 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Approach to appointing the external auditor and how objectivity and independence are safeguarded relative to 
non-audit services
Whilst the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary to have a policy for the rotation of the external audit firm 
immediately following the Company’s IPO, it is planned to keep this possibility under review in the coming years and to 
continue to comply with the audit tender rules applying to the Company.
The Audit Committee has set a policy which is intended to maintain the independence and integrity of the Company’s auditor 
when acting as auditor of the Group’s accounts. The policy governs the provision of audit, audit-related assurance and non-audit 
services provided by the auditor. In summary, this requires approval by the Committee for all individual non-audit engagements:
• with an expected cost in excess of £50,000; and
• where it is expected the annual cost for all non-audit engagements will be in excess of £150,000.
The policy details the types of non-audit services which are prohibited as they would directly threaten auditor objectivity and 
independence. It also describes permissable services, which would generally be acceptable (subject to the monetary limits 
above) and possible services which require Audit Committee approval on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee notes the non-audit fees in the financial year ended 1 August 2015 were significantly increased by KPMG’s 
role as reporting accountant on the IPO prospectus document, a non-recurring exercise of an exceptional nature.
Independence safeguards
The current audit firm was appointed while the Group was under private ownership and has served for a number of years, 
however in accordance with best ethical standards, external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the 
audit engagement partner is rotated after five years. For purposes of continuity during the Group’s first reporting period since 
listing, this engagement has continued but the Group aims to ensure that it complies with best practice on audit firm rotation 
as a listed entity.
The external auditor is also required periodically to assess whether, in its professional opinion, it is independent and those 
views are shared with the Audit Committee.
The Committee has authority to take independent advice as it deems appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor 
independence. No such advice has been required to date.
Independence assessment by the Audit Committee
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the external auditor is not impaired, and notes that the audit firm’s 
engagement partner rotation policy as been complied with. Audit and non-audit fees are set out in Note 3 to the financial 
statements. The Audit Committee noted that the auditor had provided non-audit services on the IPO transaction but believes 
sufficient and appropriate safeguards were in place for this work and the external auditor remained independent throughout 
the period.
The Committee has assessed the performance and independence of the external auditor and recommended to the Board the 
re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor until the AGM in 2016.
Internal audit
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the current internal audit function, which historically has concentrated on 
operational activities, should be reviewed in terms of both its scope and focus. As noted previously, the results of that review 
were considered at the October 2015 meeting and the programme for FY 2016 approved.
During this review, the Committee noted the Company’s relatively straightforward business model with a simple Group 
structure and an open and accountable culture with clear authority limits and the assurance gained from reports from 
management and the external auditor with regard to internal controls and risk management.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. In 
accordance with FRC guidance, it carries out such a review at least annually, covering all material controls including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Group has operating  50 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
policies and controls in place covering a range of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, business continuity 
and information technology and appropriate employee policies. These policies are designed to ensure the accuracy and 
reliability of financial reporting and govern the preparation of financial statements.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal controls and risk management and discharges or 
intends to discharge its duties in this area by:
• holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters reserved for its consideration;
• receiving regular management reports which provide an assessment of key risks and controls;
• scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews of the material risks and uncertainties facing the business;
• ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities and levels of authority;
• ensuring there are documented policies and procedures in place; and
• scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets and forecasts with performance reported to the Board monthly.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Committee will, going forward:
• review the risk register compiled and maintained by senior managers within the Group and question and challenge  
where necessary;
• regularly review the system of financial and accounting controls; and
• report to the Board on the risk and control culture within the Group.
In respect of the Group’s financial reporting, the Finance Department is responsible for preparing the Group financial statements 
using a well-established process and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards. All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control during the financial year under review that have materially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s control over financial reporting.
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that an effective system of internal controls and risk 
management is in place which enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks and which accord with the 
guidance published by the FRC. These processes have been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date  
of approval of the accounts. Further details of specific material risks and uncertainties facing the business can be found on 
pages 20 to 23.
Whistleblowing
The Group is committed to the highest standards of openness, honesty, integrity and accountability and, as a result, has a 
whistleblowing policy in place. This policy is intended to make employees or third parties aware that they should report any 
serious concerns or suspicions about any wrongdoing or malpractice on the part of any employee of the Group. Examples 
include fraud, breakdown in internal controls, misleading customers, bribery, dishonesty, corruption and breaches of data 
protection or health and safety. There have been no instances of whistleblowing during the year under review.
Control environment
The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral values and professionalism in all its activities. The Group 
has policies in place for:
• anti-bribery;
• equal opportunities; and
• gifts and entertainment.
Accountability
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s financial position and 
prospects. The responsibilities of the Directors and external auditor are set out on page 74. As set out in the Directors’ report, 
the Directors consider the Company’s business to be a going concern.
Julie Southern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
7 October 2015
Audit Committee report continued
Internal control and risk management continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
51 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Chairman’s introduction
My role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee is to ensure we have the appropriate skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity on the Board and in senior management positions, both now and in the future, in order that DFS continues to 
compete successfully in the marketplace.
I am extremely pleased that, in preparation for the IPO, Luke Mayhew, Gwyn Burr and Julie Southern joined DFS to 
complement and strengthen the existing Board. Nevertheless, succession planning for Directors and other senior executives 
continues to be of importance to ensure the relevant expertise is in place to address the challenges and opportunities facing 
the Group.
As mentioned in my introduction to the corporate governance statement, it is not possible for DFS to fully comply with the 
provisions of the Governance Code because of my deemed lack of independence on appointment as Chairman back in 2010. 
However we shall endeavour to mitigate any perceived risk by managing the Board composition in due course, so that at least 
half of its members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the forthcoming year, it is my intention the Committee will be proactive in assessing and managing an orderly  
evolution of the membership of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance  
where appropriate.
Richard Baker
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
7 October 2015
Richard Baker
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee report 52 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Composition
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard Baker and its other members are Luke Mayhew, Gwyn Burr and 
Julie Southern. The Governance Code recommends that a majority of the Nomination Committee be non-executive directors, 
independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be likely 
to, or appear to, affect their judgement. As such, the Board considers that the Company complies with the Governance Code. 
 
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings, but the Committee may invite others, including 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Head of Human Resources and external advisers, to attend all or part of any meeting if it 
thinks it is appropriate or necessary or pursuant to the terms of any agreement with shareholders. 
The Nomination Committee will meet as often as it deems necessary but in any event at least once a year.
Roles and responsibilities
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its 
committees (including an appraisal of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including gender) and for making 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
It is also responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and 
when they arise.
The full terms of reference are available on the Company’s corporate website at www.dfscorporate.co.uk.
Activities of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was formally established as part of the IPO process and did not meet between 11 March 2015 
and 1 August 2015. The first meeting of the Nomination Committee took place on 3 September 2015. 
Prior to the creation of the Nomination Committee, as part of the preparation for the IPO, the Non-Executive directors 
considered the composition of the Board and, in particular:
• assessed the capabilities of the existing Executive Directors drawing upon their first-hand experience of the previous 
five years;
• utilised the services of Spencer Stuart Executive Search Consultants (who had no connection with the Company) in the 
recruitment of the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Diversity
Whilst the Company pursues diversity, including gender diversity, throughout the business, the Board has not committed to 
any specific targets. Our Board currently has two female Directors (29% of the Board). We will give due consideration to Board 
balance and diversity when making new appointments to the Board and will continue to follow the policy of appointing 
talented people at every level to deliver high performance.
Richard Baker
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
7 October 2015
Nomination Committee report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
53 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
This report has been prepared in compliance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”) as well as the Companies Act 2006. This report  
is set out in the following key sections: 
Part A: Annual Statement 53
Part B: Our remuneration at a glance 55
Part C: Directors’ Remuneration Policy 56
1. Executive Director remuneration policy 56
2. Illustrations of application of remuneration policy 60
3. Approach to recruitment and promotions 61
4.  Executive Director service contracts  
and payment for loss of office  62
5.  Consideration of employee remuneration  
and shareholders 64
6.  Non-Executive Director remuneration policy  
and letters of appointment 65
Part D: Annual report on remuneration 66
1.  Single figure remuneration table: Executive Directors 66
2.  Implementation of remuneration policy for the  
Executive Directors for 2016 68
3.  Consideration by the Committee of matters relating  
to directors’ remuneration for 2015 and 2016 69
4.  Chief Executive Officer and employee pay 70
5.  Single figure remuneration table:  
Non-Executive Directors 71
6.  Directors’ shareholding and share interests 72
7 .  S h a r e h o l d e r v o ti n g 7 3
PART A: ANNUAL STATEMENT
2015 was a very significant year for DFS Furniture with the successful IPO in March. During the five months of trading as a 
publicly listed company, the Company generated a 11.8% total return to its shareholders (from the Placing Price to the closing 
price at the financial year end) compared with a 2.1% return for the FTSE 250 as a whole. As set out earlier in this Annual 
Report, our operating and financial performance remained strong and provides a good platform for future growth.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present to you our first Directors’ Remuneration Report for DFS Furniture as a listed company. This affords me 
the opportunity to explain the background to the Remuneration Committee’s work up until and after IPO. 
DFS established its Remuneration Committee as a private company in 2010. In the lead up to the initial share offering the 
Committee undertook a review of the underlying policy and remuneration structures of companies in the listed environment. 
As a result we put in place a clear, fair and not excessive policy suitable for DFS as a listed company. 
Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Our overall goal is to have a remuneration strategy which stimulates sustainable, value creating growth and performance for 
the business and rewards the performance of management accordingly. This has guided our thinking and actions in our initial 
work together and our dialogue with senior management.
Gwyn Burr 
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee 54 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
The policy to be applied for three years from the start of the 2016 Financial Year is set out in the appropriate detail over the 
following pages, with key areas of the policy provided below:
• Fixed level of remuneration will be set at an appropriate level for each individual and in doing so the Committee will take into 
account the levels of fixed remuneration for similar positions with comparable status, responsibility and skills, in 
organisations of broadly similar size and complexity, the performance and responsibilities of the individual along with pay 
and conditions throughout the Group. 
• Recognising the continued growth aspirations for the Company to deliver ongoing superior returns for shareholders, both 
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in market competitive annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements. 
Under both plans the Executive Directors will have the opportunity to receive appropriate levels of reward reflective of our 
annual operating and financial performance and our long term earnings and returns to shareholders. 
• Both Executive Directors are required to maintain a material stake in the Company. Having regard to the high levels of 
executive share ownership and our business model, the Committee did not consider the complexity associated with 
deferred bonuses and holding periods warranted their introduction.
Designing a pay structure, particularly one that could be adopted on IPO, involves various judgements. We believe that, on 
behalf of all shareholders, we have fulfilled our objectives of developing an appropriate, robust, performance-orientated and 
not excessive approach. 
Business context and Committee decisions on remuneration 
As you will have read earlier in this Annual Report, this was a successful year for DFS with record results: 
• Gross sales for the Group for the financial year to date are up 7.0% on the prior year to £913.1 million.
• Adjusted EBITDA increased by 8.4% on the prior year to £89.2 million.
• Free cash flow remains robust with net debt less than 2x adjusted EBITDA at the financial year end.
• The Company generated a 11.8% total return to its shareholders (from the Placing Price to the closing price at the financial 
year end) compared with a 2.1% return for the FTSE 250 as a whole.
• Strong increases in customer satisfaction scores were achieved, with post-purchase Net Promoter Scores averaging 
78.8% for the year compared to 64.8% in the prior year.
The results delivered by the Group reflect the implementation of DFS’s proven growth strategy, building on its established 
market leadership to further broaden product and brand appeal without compromising quality and value. The Group’s growth 
initiatives include a measured programme of store expansion and retail space release in the UK and overseas, continued 
development of its omnichannel proposition and constant enhancement of the product range, to build on the Group’s 
established success in extending its appeal to more customers.
Overall the business enjoys excellent prospects to deliver long-term profitable growth, strong cash generation and a 
progressive dividend policy as one of the UK’s best-known brands, a major British manufacturer and the country’s leading 
retailer of upholstered furniture. 
These strong results and prospects underpinned our decision at year-end to award Ian Filby a bonus of £332,280 and 
£250,729 for Bill Barnes (both 85.2% of maximum). The Committee determined the bonus outcomes following an assessment 
of targets set at the start of the year covering our core key performance indicators (including gross sales, underlying EBITDA 
and underlying cash flow) and their personal contribution to the business. Full details of the performance measures and 
targets can be found on page 66. 
In relation to salary, the Committee’s policy post Admission was to position salaries broadly in line with those UK listed 
companies of a similar size and complexity. As explained in the IPO listing particulars, Ian Filby’s salary will be increased to 
£425,000 as from 1 October 2015, marking the transition to our listed company remuneration policy. Bill Barnes’ salary was 
increased by 2.0% from 1 August 2015.
During the year we granted awards at IPO under the DFS Furniture plc Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) to both Executive 
Directors and plan to grant further awards during October 2015. These awards will vest subject to the achievement of 
stretching EPS and Total Shareholder Return targets. 
Format of this report and matters to be approved at our AGM in December
The remainder of this report is split out into the following three sections: 
• Our remuneration at a glance (page 55).
• Directors’ Remuneration Policy setting out the Company’s forward looking remuneration policy (pages 56 to 65).
• Annual Report on Remuneration providing details of the payments made to Directors in 2015, as well as other statutory 
disclosures (pages 66 to 73).
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
55 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
At our 2015 AGM, resolutions to approve the new Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration 
and this letter will be put to shareholders.
My goal has been to be thoughtful and clear in the layout of both parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and I ask for 
your support on both resolutions. We are committed to hearing, and take an active interest in, your views as shareholders.  
If you would like to discuss any further aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views. 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee and Board
Gwyn Burr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 October 2015
PART B: OUR REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE
Ahead of the detailed Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration, we have below summarised 
how key elements of the remuneration policy will be implemented for 2016 and the key decisions taken by the Committee in 
relation to base pay and incentives for the Executive Directors in respect of the 2015 year end. 
2016 Executive Director Remuneration policy
Ian Filby Bill Barnes
Base salary £425,000 £300,169
Annual bonus Maximum: 100% of salary Maximum: 100% of salary
Operation for 2016 • The 2016 Annual Bonus scorecard comprises of five performance measures, 
namely: gross sales, cash flow, profit before tax, net promoter score 
(i.e. customer satisfaction) and personal objectives.
• Each measures accounts for 20% of the bonus scorecard.
• Bonuses are payable in cash following the end of the financial year.
LTIP Award size: 130% of salary Award size: 100% of salary
Operation for FY 16 awards • Awards due to be granted in October 2016 will vest based on three-year 
performance against challenging targets, aligned with the delivery of the 
Company’s long-term strategy.
• Adjusted Earnings per Share (50% weighting).
• Relative Total Shareholder Return versus the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment 
Trusts) (50% weighting).
Malus and clawback Malus and clawback provisions apply under the Annual Bonus and the LTIP at the 
discretion of the Committee in appropriate circumstances such as a participant’s 
material under performance, material brand or reputational damage, material 
misstatement of the accounts, gross misconduct and fraud or other reason as 
determined by the Committee.
Pension £50,000 cash allowance less employers 
National Insurance costs. 
Historically and for 2016 Ian Filby has 
waived his entitlement to a pension 
contribution from the Group and a 
charitable donation will be made as  
an alternative.
£45,000 cash allowance less employers 
National Insurance costs.
Shareholding requirement 200% of salary. 200% of salary. 56 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
2015 Year-end decisions made
Ian Filby Bill Barnes
2016 salary review £425,000 (a 9% increase) from  
1 October 2015 as disclosed at IPO.
2.0% increase to £300,169 from  
1 August 2015.
2015 bonus outcome:
• 79.6% payout on Group gross sales
• 61.3% on Group underlying EBITDA
• 100% on Group underlying cash flow
• 100% on personal objectives
Value £332,280 £250,729
% of salary/maximum 85.2% 85.2%
PART C: DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This section of the Report contains details of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy that will govern the Company’s future 
remuneration payments. The policy is intended to apply for three years from the start of the 2016 Financial Year. The policy 
described in this part, subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s AGM on 4 December 2015. The policy part will 
be displayed on the Company’s website, in the Investor Relations section, immediately after the 2015 AGM.
The Committee has established the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman. The Board has 
established the policy on the remuneration of the other Non-Executive Directors. 
1. Executive director remuneration policy 
Remuneration strategy
The Company’s remuneration strategy is to provide a remuneration framework based on the following five principles:
We believe that the remuneration structure in place will continue to support and motivate our Executive Directors, in furthering 
the Company’s long-term strategic objectives including the creation of sustainable shareholder returns. 
Furthermore, the Committee are satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and 
does not incentivise undue risk-taking or reward underperformance. The table below sets out the key elements of the policy 
for Executive Directors:
Directors’ remuneration report continued
1
Attract, motivate and 
retain executives and 
senior management in 
order to deliver the 
Company’s strategic 
goals and business 
outputs
2
Encourage and support 
a high performance 
sales and service 
culture, ensuring good 
customer outcomes
3
Reward delivery of the 
Company’s business 
plan and key strategic 
goals
4
Adhere to the principles 
of good corporate 
governance and 
appropriate risk 
management
5
Align employees with 
the interests of 
shareholders and other 
external stakeholders 
and encourage 
widespread equity 
ownership across the 
Group Strategic report Financial statements Governance
57 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Remuneration policy table
  Element, purpose  
& link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
Base Salary
To provide  
competitive fixed 
remuneration that  
will attract and retain 
key employees and 
reflect their experience  
and position in  
the Group.
Salaries are reviewed annually,  
and any changes normally take 
effect from 1 August.
When determining the salary  
of the executives the Committee 
takes into consideration:
•  the levels of base salary for  
similar positions with comparable 
status, responsibility and skills,  
in organisations of broadly  
similar size and complexity;
•  the performance of the individual 
Executive Director;
•  the individual Executive Director’s 
experience and responsibilities;
•  pay and conditions throughout 
the Group, including the level of 
salary increases awarded to  
other employees.
Annual percentage 
increases are generally 
consistent with the  
range awarded across  
the Group.
Percentage increases in 
salary above this level 
may be made in certain 
circumstances, such as a 
change in responsibility or 
a significant increase in 
the role’s scale or the 
Group’s size and 
complexity.
The salaries payable to 
the Executive Directors 
are disclosed on page 68.
A broad assessment of individual and 
business performance is used as 
part of the salary review.
No recovery provisions apply.
Benefits
To provide  
competitive benefits 
and to attract  
and retain high  
calibre employees.
Reviewed periodically to ensure 
benefits remain market competitive.
Benefits currently include:
•  Car and fuel allowance;
• Life insurance;
•  Directors’ & Officers’  
liability insurance;
•  Private medical insurance 
(including cover for spouses  
and dependants);
•  Reimbursement of home 
telephone line and  
telephone expenses;
• Professional subscriptions;
• Critical illness cover;
• Staff discounts;
•  Other minor benefits as provided 
from time to time, including 
seasonal gifts.
Benefit values vary year 
on year depending on 
premiums and the 
maximum potential value 
is the cost of the provision 
of these benefits.
No performance or recovery 
provisions apply.
Pension
To provide a 
competitive company 
contribution that 
enables effective 
retirement planning.
Pension is provided by way of a 
contribution to a personal pension 
scheme or cash allowance in lieu  
of pension benefits.
No recovery provisions apply.
The maximum 
contribution to a  
personal pension  
scheme or cash in lieu  
is equal to £50,000.
No performance or recovery 
provisions apply. 58 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
  Element, purpose  
& link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
Annual Bonus
Incentivises 
achievement  
of annual objectives 
which support the 
Group’s short-term 
performance goals.
Bonus awards are granted annually 
following the signing of the Report 
and Accounts, usually in October.
Performance period is one  
financial year with pay-out 
determined by the Committee 
following the year end, based on 
achievement against a range of 
financial and non-financial targets.
Malus and clawback provisions apply 
at the discretion of the Committee 
where the Committee considers 
such actions reasonable and 
appropriate such as a participant’s 
material underperformance, material 
brand or reputational damage, 
material misstatement of the 
accounts, gross misconduct and 
fraud or other reason as determined 
by the Committee.
Maximum awards under 
the Annual Bonus are 
equal to 100% of salary.
Threshold performance: 
0% of maximum.
Performance targets will be set by 
the Committee annually based on a 
range of financial and non-financial 
measures.
Financial targets govern the majority 
of bonus payments, which may 
include those related to profit, cash 
flow and sales. Non-financial 
measures may include customer 
satisfaction targets and individual 
personal objectives.
The Committee has the discretion to 
adjust targets or performance 
measures for any exceptional events 
that may occur during the year.
As well as determining the measures 
and targets, the Committee will also 
determine the weighting of the 
various measures to ensure that they 
support the business strategy and 
objectives for the relevant year.
LTIP
The DFS Furniture  
plc 2015 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
incentivises executives 
to achieve superior 
returns to shareholders 
over a three-year 
period, to retain key 
individuals and align 
their interests with 
shareholders.
Under the LTIP , the Committee  
may award annual grants of 
performance share awards in  
the form of nil-cost options or 
conditional shares (LTIP Awards)  
on an annual basis. 
LTIP Awards under the plan will  
vest after a three year performance 
period (apart from initial awards, 
which were granted shortly after 
Admission and will vest after the 
financial year ending July 2017) 
subject to the achievement of the 
performance measures.
Malus and clawback provisions apply 
at the discretion of the Committee 
where the Committee considers 
such actions reasonable and 
appropriate such as a participant’s 
material underperformance, material 
brand or reputational damage, 
material misstatement of the 
accounts, gross misconduct and 
fraud or other reason as determined 
by the Committee.
Maximum LTIP Awards 
are equal to 150% of  
base salary.
In exceptional 
circumstances, the 
Committee retains the 
discretion to increase  
this to 300% of salary.
Participants may be 
entitled to dividend 
equivalents representing 
the dividends paid  
during the performance 
period on LTIP awards 
that have vested.
Awards vest based performance 
against challenging targets, aligned 
with the delivery of the Company’s 
long-term strategy.
Adjusted EPS and Relative Total 
Shareholder Return measures will 
determine the vesting of awards 
granted in any year (50% weighting 
for each measure).
Targets are typically structured as a 
challenging sliding scale, with no more 
than 20% of the maximum award 
vesting for achieving the threshold 
performance level through to full 
vesting for substantial out-performance 
of the threshold.
The Committee will review 
performance measures annually,  
in terms of the range of targets, the 
measures themselves and weightings 
applied to each element of the LTIP. 
Any revisions to the metrics and/or 
weightings will only take place if it is 
necessary because of developments 
in the Group’s strategy and, where 
these are material, following dialogue 
with the major shareholders.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
59 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
  Element, purpose  
& link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
All-employee incentives
Encourage all 
employees to  
become shareholders 
and thereby align  
their interests with 
shareholders.
Eligible employees may  
participate in the Sharesave  
and Share Incentive Plan or  
country equivalent.
Executive Directors will be entitled 
to participate on those same terms.
Maximum participation 
levels for all staff, 
including Executive 
Directors, are set by 
relevant UK legislation or 
other relevant legislation.
Not applicable.
Shareholding guidelines
To ensure that 
Executive Directors’ 
interests are aligned 
with those of 
shareholders over  
a longer time horizon.
The Executive Directors are 
required to build or maintain  
(as relevant) a minimum 
shareholding in the Company.
Shares included in this calculation 
are those held beneficially by the 
Executive Director and their 
spouse/life partner.
The shareholding 
requirement is up to 
200% of salary for 
Executive Directors.
Not applicable.
Legacy awards 
The Committee reserves the right to honour any remuneration payments or awards, notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment or award were agreed before the policy came into effect (as set 
out in the IPO document).
Such payments or awards will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year. This includes the release 
of awards under the Management Equity Plan made prior to listing of the Company.
Performance measures and targets 
The table below sets out the rationale for performance measures chosen in respect of the Annual Bonus and LTIP: 
 Element Performance measures Rationale How targets are set
Annual Bonus A range of financial and non-
financial performance measures.
The Committee selected the 
financial measures based on the 
Group’s Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) and personal 
objectives are individually set and 
based on key strategic goals.
The performance targets are 
determined annually by the 
Committee taking into account 
market conditions and forecasts.
LTIP • EPS
•  Relative Total Shareholder Return.
EPS is an important measure of 
shareholder value over which 
Executive Directors have clear  
line of sight.
Relative Total Shareholder Return 
reflects DFS performance relative to 
other companies in which investors 
could choose to invest.
EPS targets are set in reference  
to analyst forecasts and  
business plans.
Relative Total Shareholder Return 
targets are determined taking into 
account the comparative market 
returns and the expected level of 
returns for DFS shareholders.
The Committee is of the opinion that, given the commercial sensitivity of the Company’s operations, disclosing precise targets 
for the Annual Bonus in advance would not be in shareholders’ interests. Except in circumstances where elements remain 
commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the 
performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts. 60 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Discretion with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report. The Committee may also exercise operational 
and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules. In addition, the 
Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion 
of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
2. Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
The charts below seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Executive Directors based on the stated 
remuneration policy. The charts show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by Executives Directors under 
the policy set out in this report. Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each scenario is made up of 
fixed elements of remuneration, the annual bonus and the LTIP. 
The charts indicate that a significant proportion of both target and maximum pay is performance related. 
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows:
 
 Element Minimum On-Target Maximum
Fixed Elements • Base salary at of £425,000 for Ian Filby and £300,169 for Bill Barnes.
•  Pension £45,000 (less employers NI) for Bill Barnes. Historically and for 2016 Ian Filby has waived his 
entitlement to a pension contribution from the Group and a charitable donation will be made as an 
alternative. Therefore £0 is shown for Ian Filby in the scenarios above.
•  Estimated value of benefits provided under the policy.
Annual Bonus Nil 50% of maximum 100% of salary for both  
Executive Directors
LTIP Nil 60% of maximum Ian Filby: 130% of salary
Bill Barnes: 100% of salary
Notes
1 In accordance with the Regulations, no allowance has been made for share price appreciation.
2 For both the Annual Bonus and LTIP on-target assumptions, the mid-point between threshold and maximum has been selected.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
0
300
600
900
1200
1500
Maximum On-Target Minimum
0
300
600
900
1200
1500
Maximum On-Target Minimum
£’000
Ian Filby
Fixed
Annual bonus
LTIP
£443
£987
£1,421
100%
£443
33.6% £332
21.5% £213
44.9% £443 31.2% £443
29.9% £425
38.9% £553
£’000
Bill Barnes
Fixed
Annual bonus
LTIP
£378
£708
£979
100% £378
25.4% £180
21.2% £150
53.4% £378 38.6% £378
30.7% £300
30.7% £300 Strategic report Financial statements Governance
61 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
3. Approach to recruitment and promotions
The Company will pay total remuneration for new Executive Directors that enables the Company to attract appropriately 
skilled and experienced individuals, but is not, in the opinion of the Committee, excessive. The remuneration package for any 
new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration 
policy table.
For a new Executive Director who is an internal appointment, the Company may also continue to honour contractual 
commitments made prior to the internal appointment even if those commitments are otherwise inconsistent with the policy in 
force when the commitments are satisfied. Any relevant incentive plan participation may either continue on its original terms or 
the performance targets and/or measures may be amended to reflect the individual’s new role, as the Committee considers 
appropriate. The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration:
 Element Policy description
Base salary 
and benefits
•  The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market factors, the individual’s 
experience and responsibilities and other pay structures within the Company and will be consistent with the 
salary policy for existing Executive Directors. 
•  This may mean that the Executive Director is recruited on a salary below the market rate with a view that it 
would be increased subject to performance over a number of years.
•  Benefits may be provided in line with DFS’ benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension •  An Executive Director will be able to receive either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash 
allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with DFS’ policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Annual Bonus •  An Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus as set out in the remuneration  
policy table.
•  Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the 
Committee’s discretion.
Long-term 
incentives
•  An Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan as set out in the 
remuneration policy table.
•  Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under scheme rules at the  
Committee’s discretion.
Maximum 
Variable 
Remuneration
•  The maximum annual variable remuneration that an Executive Director can receive may be up to 450%  
of salary (i.e. Annual Bonus and LTIP Awards).
Share  
buy-outs/
replacement 
awards
•  The Company may, where appropriate, compensate a new Executive Director for variable or share based 
remuneration that has been forfeited as a result of accepting the appointment with the Company. Where  
the Company compensates a new Executive Director in this way, it will seek to do so under the terms of the 
Company’s existing variable remuneration arrangements, but may compensate on terms that are more 
bespoke than the existing arrangements where the Committee considers that to be appropriate.
•  In such instances, the Company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such 
recruitment related compensation. In making such awards the Committee will seek to take into account the 
nature (including whether awards are cash or share-based), vesting period and performance measures and/
or conditions for any remuneration forfeited by the individual when leaving a previous employer. Where such 
awards had outstanding performance or service conditions (which are not significantly completed) the 
Company will generally impose equivalent conditions.
•  The value of the buy-out awards will broadly be the equivalent of, or less than, the value of the award being 
bought out.
Relocation 
policies
•  In instances where the new executive is relocated from one work location to another, the Company will 
provide compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive in cases where they are expected  
to spend significant time away from their home location in accordance with its normal relocation package  
for employees.
•  The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration 
any cost of living differences; housing allowance; and schooling in accordance with the Company’s normal 
relocation package for employees. 62 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
4. Executive Director service contracts and payment for loss of office
Service contracts
When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard to market practice and corporate governance best practice. 
Executive Directors’ service agreements can be terminated by not less than six months’ prior written notice given by the 
Executive or by not less than 12 months’ prior written notice given by the employer. The table below summarises the service 
contracts and letters of appointments for our Executive Directors.
Date of contract Notice period
Ian Filby 13 July 2010
  6 months (Executive)  
or 12 months (Company)
Bill Barnes 6 July 2010
All service contracts are available for viewing at the Company’s registered office and at the AGM.
Payments for loss of office
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the 
Company whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time. The 
Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an 
existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or by way of settlement or compromise of 
any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Director’s office or employment. 
The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Company’s policy on payment for loss of office in 
respect of Executive Directors and any discretion available: 
 Element Approach Discretion
Base salary The Company is entitled to terminate an Executive Director’s 
employment without notice and without compensation for 
resignation or in the event of termination by the Company  
due to gross misconduct, wilful neglect or certain other 
specified circumstances. 
In other circumstances the Company may determine that an 
Executive Director will be entitled to receive payment in lieu of 
notice equivalent to the salary payments that he would have 
been entitled to receive during any required period of notice  
or unexpired part thereof.
None.
Annual Bonus Where an Executive Director’s employment is terminated after 
the end of a financial year but before the bonus payment is 
made, the Executive Director may be eligible for a bonus award 
for that financial year subject to an assessment based on 
financial and personal performance achieved over the period. 
Where an Executive Director’s employment is terminated  
during a financial year, a pro-rata bonus award for the period 
worked in that financial year may be payable subject to an 
assessment based on financial and personal performance.
In respect of the current Executive Directors (but not part of  
the Company’s policy for any future Executive Directors),  
where the Company decides to invoke the contractual payment 
in lieu of notice clause, he will be entitled to receive a bonus 
equivalent to 75% of his maximum bonus opportunity based  
on financial performance, pro-rated for any required period of 
notice or unexpired part thereof. Any such payment shall be 
made promptly following the Board’s approval and signing of 
the audited accounts for the year concerned.
However, there may be no payment in the event of  
gross misconduct, wilful neglect or certain other  
specified circumstances.
In respect of the current Executive Directors (but not part of 
the Company’s policy for any future Executive Directors), the 
Committee has discretion to increase the payment in respect 
of any pro-rata bonus by the amount of bonus based on 
personal performance that the Committee determines would 
have been payable had the Executive Director’s employment 
not been terminated.
Further, and for the present Executive Directors only, where  
a payment is made in lieu of notice, the Committee has 
discretion to increase the bonus payment in respect of 
financial performance to an amount equivalent to 100% of the 
maximum bonus opportunity. The Committee also retains 
discretion to increase the payment in respect of bonus based 
on personal performance that the Committee determines 
would have been payable had the Executive Director’s 
employment not been terminated. The Committee confirms 
that it will explain the reasons should it ever have to invoke 
these discretions. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
63 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
 Element Approach Discretion
LTIP If a participant in the LTIP ceases employment as a result of:
• death;
• ill-health, injury or disability;
• the participant’s employing company ceasing to be a  
Group member or the transfer of an undertaking or part  
of an undertaking (in which the participant is employed) to  
a person who is not a Group member; or
• any other reason, permitted by the Committee in its  
absolute discretion except where the participant is  
summarily dismissed;
Unless the Committee determines that an LTIP Award will vest 
as soon as practicable after the date of cessation, an LTIP 
Award which has not yet vested as at the date of cessation will 
continue and vest on the normal vesting date subject to earlier 
vesting on certain corporate events taking place.
If a participant in the LTIP ceases employment for any other 
reason, his awards will lapse in full (whether vested or not) on 
the date of such cessation.
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its absolute 
discretion the number of shares in respect of which an award 
shall vest will be calculated on a pro rata basis, taking into 
account the extent to which any performance conditions have 
been satisfied at the end of the performance period (or at the 
date of cessation, if vesting following cessation is permitted) 
and the period of time that has elapsed from the grant date to 
the date of cessation.
All vested LTIP Awards in the form of nil-cost options may be 
exercised following cessation for such period as set out in the 
rules of the LTIP or otherwise determined by the Committee.
Under the rules of the LTIP , the Committee has discretion to 
determine whether the reason for termination of employment 
is “any other reason” (as described in the previous column) 
– such classification effectively governs the treatment of 
awards post-cessation of employment.
The Committee has discretion to determine that vesting 
will take place as soon as practicable following the date  
of cessation.
The Committee has discretion to determine whether or not 
vesting of an award shall be reduced on a pro rata basis to 
take account of the extent to which any performance 
conditions have been satisfied and the period of time that 
has elapsed from the grant date to the date of cessation.
It should be noted that it is the Committee’s policy only to 
apply its discretion if the circumstances at the time are, in 
its opinion, sufficiently exceptional, and to provide a full 
explanation to shareholders where discretion is exercised.
In the event of a takeover or scheme of arrangement awards  
will automatically vest on the date of such event (subject to 
provisions in the LTIP rules which allow for exchanges of 
awards). On a voluntary/compulsory winding-up of the 
Company (other than in the nature of an internal reorganisation), 
demerger or other events deemed appropriate by the 
Committee awards will vest at the discretion of the Committee 
on the date of such event.
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the number  
of shares in respect of which an award shall vest will be 
calculated on a pro-rata basis taking into account the extent 
any performance conditions have been satisfied at the date  
of the relevant event and the period of time that has elapsed 
from the grant date to the date of the relevant event. To the 
extent awards do not vest or are exchanged (in the case of  
a takeover or scheme of arrangement only) they shall lapse  
in full immediately.
The Committee has discretion to determine that awards 
vest on a date prior to the date of the corporate event 
taking place.
The Committee has discretion to determine whether or  
not vesting of an award shall be reduced on a pro rata 
basis to take account of the extent to which any 
performance conditions have been satisfied and the period 
of time that has elapsed from the grant date to the date of 
the relevant event.
It should be noted that it is the Committee’s policy only to 
apply its discretion if the circumstances at the time are, in its 
opinion, sufficiently exceptional, and to provide a full 
explanation to shareholders where discretion is exercised.
The Committee has discretion for existing unvested awards 
to be exchanged in the event of a takeover. 64 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
5. Consideration of employee remuneration and shareholders consideration of shareholder views
As a newly listed company, there has been limited opportunity to discuss and seek feedback on the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy with new shareholders. If changes are deemed appropriate the Committee will consult with key shareholders prior to 
making any changes to policy. 
All-employee remuneration
In setting the remuneration policy for directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of DFS are taken into account, 
including any base salary increases awarded. The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for 
management level tiers below the Executive Directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency of approach 
throughout the Company. 
Formal consultation on the remuneration of Executive Directors is not undertaken with employees. However, a survey on 
employees engagement is undertaken annually and includes discussion on parts of the Group’s remuneration approach. 
The remuneration policy described above applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Company. The Committee believes 
that the structure of management and employee reward at DFS should be linked to DFS’s strategy and performance. The 
table below illustrates how the remuneration framework operates below the Executive Directors:
 Level
Employees 
numbers
Fixed 
remuneration
Annual bonus or 
incentive/
commission 
plans
Restricted Share 
Plan
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
All employee 
HMRC plans 
Shareholding 
guidelines
Senior Management 9 √ √ √ √ √
Heads of divisions  
and or functions c.35 √ √ √ √
Managers c.180 √ √ √ √
All employees 3000+ √ √ √
In addition to the above, at the time of IPO we provided employees with the opportunity to buy shares in the Company. 
We were delighted with the take up response and the enthusiasm of those that took part to become shareholders of 
the Company. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
65 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
6. Non-executive director remuneration policy and letters of appointment
Remuneration policy table
The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman 
whose remuneration is determined by the Committee and recommended to the Board. 
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Non-Executive Directors:
 
Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance measures and 
assessment
To provide 
compensation 
that attracts 
high calibre 
individuals  
and reflects 
their 
experience 
and 
knowledge.
Fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account 
independent advice and the time commitment required  
of Non-Executive Directors.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other 
Non-Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other 
fully listed companies which the Committee (in the case  
of the Chairman) and the Board (in respect of the Non-
Executive Directors) consider to be of equivalent size  
and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors may receive a base fee and 
additional fees for the role of Senior Independent  
Director or membership and/or Chairmanship of  
certain committees.
Non-Executive Directors also receive reimbursement  
of reasonable expenses (and any tax thereon) incurred 
undertaking their duties and or Company business.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any variable 
remuneration element.
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to staff discount  
on Group merchandise on the same basis as other 
employees, and may also receive seasonal gifts.
Any increase in Non-
Executive Director fees 
may be above the level 
awarded to other 
employees, given that 
they may only be 
reviewed periodically 
and may need to reflect 
any changes to time 
commitments or 
responsibilities.
The Company will pay 
reasonable expenses 
incurred by the 
Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director 
fees are not 
performance related. 
Letters of appointment
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for 
a review after an initial three year term terminable by either the Non-Executive Director or the Company with one month’s prior 
written notice. Each Non-Executive Director is subject to annual re-election at the Company’s AGM. The table below sets out 
the dates that each Non-executive Director was first appointed as a Group director (all Directors were subsequently appointed 
to the current parent company, DFS Furniture plc on 2 February 2015 as part of the IPO process). 
Date of appointment
Richard Baker 27 July 2010
Luke Mayhew 1 October 2014
Gwyn Burr 1 December 2014
Julie Southern 2 February 2015
Andy Dawson 23 June 2010
No compensation is payable in the event of early termination apart from the notice period. All letters of appointment are 
available for viewing at the Company’s registered office and at the AGM.  66 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
PART D: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
This Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of how the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Directors was 
implemented during the financial year ended 1 August 2015. This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations. An advisory resolution to approve this report and the Annual Statement will 
be put to shareholders at the AGM on 4 December 2015. 
1. Single figure remuneration table: Executive Directors – audited
The remuneration of Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative figures for the prior 
Financial Year is shown below. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Base Salary
£000
Taxable Benefits
£000
Bonus
£000
Long-Term 
Incentives
£000
Pension
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Ian Filby 2015 390 18 332 – 50 – 790
2014 358 19 149 – 50 – 576
Bill Barnes 2015 294 38 251 – 40 102 725
2014 276 33 132 – 40 – 481
Notes
1. Taxable Benefits comprise car and fuel allowance, private medical insurance (including cover for spouses and dependants), 
relevant professional subscriptions, seasonal gifts and reimbursement of home telephone line and telephone expenses – 
the values of which has been included in the Taxable Benefits column.
2. The Executive Directors’ are entitled to receive a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash in lieu – the value of 
which has been included in the Pension column for Bill Barnes. Ian Filby waived his entitlement to a pension contribution 
from the Group and a donation of £50,000 (2014: £50,000) has instead been made to a registered charity of which he is 
one of the trustees. 
3. Mike Ristaino was a director of the company until 3 February 2015 in an administrative capacity on behalf of Advent 
Diamond (Luxembourg) Sarl. He received no remuneration in 2014 or 2015 for his services to the Company.
Annual bonus outcomes for the financial year ending 1 August 2015 – audited
For 2015 the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director had a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 100% of salary. 
For each Executive Director, the 2015 annual bonus determination was based on performance against four performance 
measures namely; gross sales, underlying EBITDA, underlying cash flow and personal objectives. The table below provides 
information on the targets for each measure, actual performance and resulting bonus payment for each Executive Director: 
 Performance measure
Weighting
(% of maximum 
bonus 
opportunity)
Threshold target 
(0% of 
performance 
measure 
maximum 
opportunity 
earned)
Maximum target 
(100% of 
performance 
measure 
maximum 
opportunity 
earned)
Actual 
performance 
outcome
% of 
performance 
measure 
maximum 
opportunity 
earned
Gross sales 25% £853.4m £928.4m £913.1m 79.6%
Underlying EBITDA 25% £80.0m £95.0m £89.2m 61.3%
Underlying cash flow 25% £22.2m £32.2m £34.5m 100%
Personal objectives 25% See below See below See below 100%
Overall extent to which the bonus targets were 
achieved
85.2% of maximum for the Chief Executive Officer
85.2% of maximum for the Finance Director
Notes
1. Between threshold and maximum, pay-out for the financial measures was calculated on a straight-line basis. 
2. Gross sales and underlying EBITDA (underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation) are presented on the 
income statement on page 77. Underlying cash flow means the net movement in cash and cash equivalents during the 
financial year as adjusted for cash flows associated with non-underlying items.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
67 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Performance against the personal objectives are described below: 
Weighting 
(% of maximum 
bonus  
opportunity) Performance targets Actual performance outcome
% of performance measure 
maximum opportunity earned
Ian Filby 25% •  Develop specific growth 
initiatives including online 
and international initiatives
•  Improve measurable 
customer service metrics
•  Achieve specific growth 
targets in support of sales 
and profit growth
•  The Committee was 
satisfied that all personal 
objectives were achieved.
100%
Bill Barnes 25% •  Establish appropriate 
refinancing for the Group 
commensurate with 
revised capital structure
•  Improve management 
information content for 
specific areas
•  Integrate acquisitions  
into financial planning  
and reporting
•  The Committee was 
satisfied that all personal 
objectives were achieved.
100%
As a result for the performance results shown above, the bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors are £332,280 for Ian 
Filby (85.2% of maximum) and £250,729 for Bill Barnes (85.2% of maximum). The 2015 bonuses for Ian Filby and Bill Barnes 
will be paid in cash. No part of the bonus will be subject to deferral and no discretion was exercised by the Committee when 
determining the bonus outcomes.
Other – audited
As part of the reorganisation process, Bill Barnes was invited to acquire 16,000 shares under the Management Equity Plan in 
DFS Investments Ltd at a price of £3.21 which was at a discount to the IPO price of £9.57. There were no performance 
conditions attached to these shares or the other shares purchased under the plan by the Executive Directors. 
The value shown in the column “other” represents the intrinsic value of the shares at the date of award (i.e. the difference 
between the IPO value and the purchase value). 
For reference both Executive Directors were entitled to sell 30% of their shares under the Management Equity Plan on 
Admission, with the balance subject to a 365 day lock-up from the date of Admission. Ian Filby sold 30% of his shares on 
Admission; Bill Barnes sold 25.52%. 
Payments to past Directors or for loss of office – audited
During the year there were no payments to past Directors and no payments for loss of office. 68 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
2. Implementation of remuneration policy for the Executive Directors for 2016
Base salary
In setting salary levels for the 2016 financial year for the Executive Directors, the Committee considered a number of factors, 
including individual performance and experience, pay and conditions for employees across the Group, the general 
performance of the Company, pay levels in other comparable companies and the economic environment. The salaries  
for 2016 and the relative increases are set out below.
 
Base salary 
£000
2016 2015 % change
Ian Filby £425,000 £390,000 +9.0%
Bill Barnes £300,169 £294,283 +2.0%
Notes
1. Ian Filby’s salary increase was discussed at the time of the IPO and disclosed in the listing particulars. This higher than 
normal salary increase is part of the transition to a listed company’s remuneration policy. This salary increase will take 
effect from 1 October 2015.
2. Bill Barnes has been awarded a salary increase of 2.0% which took effect from 1 August 2015. This salary increase was 
slightly above the standard staff pay review of 1.2%, but consistent with the approach for high performing individuals.
Pension and benefits
The maximum contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash in lieu is equal to £50,000 for Ian Filby and £45,000 (less 
employers NI cost) for Bill Barnes. Ian Filby has waived his entitlement to a pension contribution from the Group and a monthly 
charitable donation will be made instead. 
Benefits will be provided to the Executive Directors’ in line with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
Annual bonus
Consistent with the Remuneration Policy the maximum and threshold bonus potentials for 2016 are: 
Threshold  
bonus
Maximum  
bonus
Ian Filby 0% of salary 100% of salary
Bill Barnes 0% of salary 100% of salary
For the 2016 financial year, performance measures include Group gross sales, Group underlying cash flow, Group underlying 
profit before tax, Net Promoter Score (i.e. customer satisfaction) and personal objectives. Each performance measure shall have 
a 20% weighting.
The Committee is of the opinion that the precise performance targets for the Annual Bonus are commercially sensitive and 
that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year. Actual 
targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance period so shareholders can 
fully assess the basis for any pay-outs. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
69 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
LTIP Awards
Details of the LTIP Awards to be made in October are provided below. 
Type of Award
Maximum Value 
of Award at Grant 
Date Vesting period Exercise Price
Ian Filby Conditional Share Award 130% of 
salary 
Three years
 
Nil
Bill Barnes
Conditional Share Award 
100% of 
salary
Three years
 
Nil
The awards will vest subject to achieving two challenging measures, namely Adjusted EPS (50% weighting) and Relative Total 
Shareholder Return (50% weighting). The targets are contained in table below: 
 Measure Performance period Performance target
Vesting (% of 
Award)
Total Shareholder Return versus 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
Investment Trusts)
2 August 2015 to the end of the  
2018 financial year
Below Index return 0%
Equal to Index return 20%
12% p.a. above the Index return 100%
Adjusted Earnings per Share
3 financial years ending the 2018 
financial year
Less than 8% per annum 0%
8% per annum 20%
18% per annum 100%
Notes
1. Growth in Total Shareholder Return will be calculated on a simple average annual growth rate.
2. Adjusted Earnings per Share will be calculated on a compound annual growth rate basis.
3. Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to the directors’ remuneration for 2015 and 2016
The Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, 
within agreed terms of reference, on remuneration for the Executive Directors and has oversight of remuneration 
arrangements for senior management. The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Company’s website at 
www.dfscorporate.co.uk. 
 Members of the Committee during 2015
 
Committee meeting 
Independent October 2014 March 2015 Attendance
Gwyn Burr (Chair) Yes n/a √ 100% 
Luke Mayhew Yes √ √ 100% 
Julie Southern Yes n/a √ 100%
Richard Baker No √ n/a 100%
Andy Dawson No √ n/a 100%
Richard Baker and Andy Dawson ceased to be members of the Committee on 22 February 2015. All Committee members 
attended all Remuneration Committee meetings that took place while they were members of the Committee. None of the 
Committee members has any personal financial interest (other than as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising from 
cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business. The Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director 
attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee, but are not present when their own remuneration is being discussed. 
The Committee is supported by the HR Director, Finance and Company Secretariat functions.  70 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
3. Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to the directors’ remuneration for 2015 and 2016 continued
The Committee received external advice in 2015 from KPMG and PwC during the year. KPMG advised the Committee up until 
the IPO and subsequently the Committee appointed PwC as its advisors after a tender process in July 2015. PwC are 
considered by the Committee to be objective and independent. PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The 
Committee reviewed the nature of all the services provided during the year by KPMG and PwC and was satisfied that no 
conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services. The total fees paid to KPMG in respect of services to the 
Committee during the year were £50,000. Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken 
for the Committee.
During the financial year, there were two Committee meetings. The matters covered at each meeting are covered in the  
table below:
 October 2014 March 2015
• Review of 2013/14 performance against targets
• Review of Executive Director salaries
•  Review and approval of grants of awards under LTIP and 
RSP pursuant to IPO
 
4. Chief Executive Officer and employee pay
Total Shareholder Returns and Chief Executive Officer pay since IPO
The Committee believes that the current Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the supporting reward structure 
provide clear alignment with the Company’s performance. The Committee believes it is appropriate to monitor the Company’s 
performance against the FTSE 250 Index as it represents a broad equity market against which the Company compares itself. 
The chart below illustrates our strong Total Shareholder Return performance against the FTSE 250 Index since 5 March 2015, 
the date of IPO, to the end of the 2015 financial year. 
 Chief Executive Officer 2015 
Single figure of total remuneration (£000) 790
Bonus pay-out (% maximum) 85.2%
Long-term incentive vesting rates (% maximum) n/a 
Mar 2015
DFS Furniture plc
Aug 2015
95
100
105
110
115
FTSE 250
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
71 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executive Officer’s pay with the wider employee population. 
The Company considers DFS employees other than those whose remuneration includes piecework or commission, and 
excluding the Executive Directors, to be an appropriate comparator group. 
% change from 2014 to 2015 Base salary Benefits Annual bonus
Chief Executive Officer +8.9% -1.4% +122.8%
Employee pay +1.0% 0% –16.1%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders. 
 Significant distributions 2015 2014 % change
Employee spend £125.0m £116.4m +7.4%
Distributions to shareholders – £1.3m –
Note
1. The above figures are taken from Notes 4 and 20 to the financial statements.
In addition to the above, as part of the IPO selling shareholders allocated 1% of their profits to the DFS Partnership Scheme, 
which enabled approximately 2,600 DFS employees to receive a share of a £2.6 million pay out from the previous 
shareholders and senior management.
5. Single figure remuneration table: Non-Executive Directors – audited
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components, with comparative figures for the 
prior year, is shown below. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations. 
Fees
£000
Benefits/Other
£000
Total
£000
Richard Baker 2015 210 – 210
2014 210 1 211
Luke Mayhew 2015 50 50 100
2014 – – –
Gwyn Burr 2015 33 25 58
2014 – – –
Julie Southern 2015 25 20 45
2014 – – –
Andy Dawson 2015 – – –
2014 – – –
Notes
1. Andy Dawson does not receive a fee for his role as Non-Executive Director. 
2. Other amounts include additional payments made in respect of contributions to the Admission process. 72 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Fees to be provided in 2016 to the Non-Executive Directors 
The following table sets out the annual fee rates for the Non-Executive Directors:
2016 2015 % change
Chairman fee £210,000 £210,000 nil
Independent Non-Executive Director fee £50,000 £50,000 nil
Senior Independent Director fee £10,000 £10,000 nil
Non-Executive fees were agreed during 2015 and so no changes to these arrangements are anticipated for 2016.
6. Directors’ shareholding and share interests 
Shareholding and other interests at 1 August 2015 – audited
Directors’ share interests and, where applicable, achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below. In order that 
their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain (as relevant)  
a personal shareholding equal to 200% of their basic salary in the Company. 
Shareholding at 1 August 2015
Interests in shares under the LTIP 
(Conditional Shares)
Number of 
beneficially 
owned shares1 % of salary held
Shareholding 
requirement met
Subject to 
conditions
Vested but 
unexercised
Total at 1 August 
2015
Ian Filby 1,313,208 960% Yes 198,823 – 1,512,031
Bill Barnes 698,626 677% Yes 115,405 – 814,031
Richard Baker 4,824,402 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Luke Mayhew 19,821 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Gwyn Burr – n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Julie Southern 3,921 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Andy Dawson – n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Total 6,859,978 314,228 – 7,174,206
Notes
1. Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons.
2. Shareholding requirement calculation is based on the share price at the end of the year (£2.85 at 1 August 2015).
For both Executive Directors, the column “beneficially owned shares” includes shares held directly or indirectly by connected 
persons and those legally and beneficially owned under the Management Equity Plan. 
At 6 October 2015 there had been no movement in Directors’ shareholdings and share interests from 1 August 2015.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Strategic report Financial statements Governance
73 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
LTIP Awards granted in 2015 
The table below sets out the details of the LTIP Awards granted on 16 March 2015 following IPO where vesting will be 
determined according to the achievement of certain performance measures. Non-Executive Directors do not receive awards 
under the plan.
Type of Award
Face value/Maximum 
Value of Award at 
Grant Date
(£’000 or % of salary)
Number of 
shares
Percentage of 
award receivable 
for threshold 
performance Vesting date Exercise Price
Ian Filby Conditional Share Award 
£539
138% 198,823 20% 31 July 2017 Nil 
Bill Barnes Conditional Share Award 
£313
106% 115,405 20% 31 July 2017 Nil
Notes
1. The closing share price of £2.71 on 16 March 2015 was used to determine the maximum face value of awards.
2. Awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions which will be measured at the time the 
Group publishes its full year results.
The awards will vest subject to achieving two challenging sliding scale targets, namely Adjusted EPS (50% weighting) and 
Relative Total Shareholder Return (50% weighting). The targets are contained in table below: 
 Measure Performance period Performance target Vesting (% of Award)
Total Shareholder Return 
versus FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding Investment Trusts)
From the date of IPO (5 March 
2015) to the end of the 2017 
financial year
Below Index return 0%
Equal to Index return 20%
12% p.a. above the  
Index return 100%
Adjusted Earnings per Share End of the 2017 financial year
Less than pence 0%
23 pence 20%
29 pence 100%
Notes
1. Growth in Total Shareholder Return will be calculated on a simple average annual growth rate.
2. Adjusted Earnings per Share will be based on the numbers reported for the financial year ending 29 July 2017. 
Dilution 
The Company funds its share incentives through a combination of new issue and market purchased shares. The Company 
monitors the levels of share grants and the impact of these on the ongoing requirement for shares. In accordance with 
guidelines set out by the Investment Association (“IA”) the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital 
in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans.
7. Shareholding voting
This is this first year that we will presenting our Directors’ Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration to 
shareholders for vote as a public listed company. We will present full voting results in next year’s report. 
By order of the Board
Gwyn Burr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 October 2015 74 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and Company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Filby Bill Barnes
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director
7 October 2015
Directors’ responsibilities statement Strategic report Financial statements Governance
75 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements Governance
Independent auditor’s report
Independent auditor’s report to the members of DFS Furniture plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of DFS Furniture Plc for the 52 week period ended 1 August 2015 which comprise 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company 
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow statement and the related 
notes. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
1 August 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the 
greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows:
Completeness, existence and accuracy of the Guarantee provision and other provisions and long term accruals 
(£14.7 million)
Refer to page 48 Audit Committee report, page 85 (accounting policy) and page 97 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The Group held provisions and long term accruals of £14.7 million at the period end. The guarantee provision totals 
£8.8 million and reflects the estimated cost of fulfilling the obligations arising from the product guarantee provided to the retail 
customers. The directors apply judgement in determining the appropriate provision based on detailed analysis of historic 
claims made and the run rate from the recent level of calls.
The other provisions and long term accruals represent liabilities for property related provisions held for onerous contracts and 
other obligations for the Group’s property leases, reserves for payment protection insurance claims and other trading 
balances. We focused on these areas as judgement is required when assessing the value of the liabilities.
Our response –Our procedures included critically assessing the appropriateness of assumptions applied in calculating the 
value of the guarantee provision by focussing on the historical losses experienced by the Group and reconciling that 
experience to the approach taken to calculating the provision recognised. We utilised recent activity and expected trends to 
assess the average provision value for a claim against the actual costs incurred during the period.
For the remaining other provisions and long term accruals we have critically assessed the judgements taken regarding future 
uncertainties, tested the completeness and accuracy of the inputs of the calculations for recording the liability to the Group 
and agreed, where relevant to third party documentation. Our review specifically focussed on the calculation for the payment 
protection insurance provision, assessing the level of claims made in the period, the value of settlements paid and the 
judgements taken regarding the level of future claims.
We have also assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s disclosures regarding provision uncertainty and timings.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £3.0 million, determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation of £10.7 million, which has then been normalised to exclude the pre-tax non-
underlying items identified on the Group Income Statement and explained in note 3, and to reflect an interest expense 
consistent with the post IPO financing structure. These normalising adjustments amount to £49.3 million which increases our 
benchmark profit before tax to £60.0 million, of which our materiality of £3.0 million represents 5%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £150,000, in addition to 
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 76 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Of the Group’s eight reporting components, the Group audit team subjected all eight to audits for Group reporting purposes. 
The audits undertaken at the reporting components was performed to a materiality level of between £0.1 million and 
£3.0 million, as set by the Group audit team.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5. We have nothing to report on in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 41 relating to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions 
of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 74, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of 
an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This 
report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding 
our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a , which are incorporated into this 
report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
7 October 2015
Independent auditor’s report continued Strategic report Governance
77 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015 (53 weeks ended 2 August 2014)
2015 2014
Note
Underlying 
£m
Non-underlying 
£m
Total 
£m
Underlying 
£m
Non-underlying 
£m
Total 
£m
Gross sales 1,2 913.1 – 913.1 853.4 – 853.4
Revenue 2 706.1 – 706.1 656.8 – 656.8
Cost of sales (583.8) – (583.8) (544.9) – (544.9)
Gross profit 122.3 – 122.3 111.9 – 111.9
Administrative expenses (33.1) (11.6) (44.7) (31.9) (4.4) (36.3)
Operating profit before 
depreciation and amortisation 89.2 (11.6) 77.6 80.0 (4.4) 75.6
Depreciation (14.3) – (14.3) (12.3) – (12.3)
Amortisation (2.7) – (2.7) (2.4) – (2.4)
Operating profit 2,3 72.2 (11.6) 60.6 65.3 (4.4) 60.9
Finance income 5 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 – 0.2
Finance expenses 5 (39.0) (11.0) (50.0) (57.5) – (57.5)
Profit before tax 33.3 (22.6) 10.7 8.0 (4.4) 3.6
Taxation 6 (10.4) 2.9 (7.5) (8.7) 0.6 (8.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 22.9 (19.7) 3.2 (0.7) (3.8) (4.5)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 24.4 (19.7) 4.7 (1.2) (3.8) (5.0)
Non-controlling interests (1.5) – (1.5) 0.5 – 0.5
22.9 (19.7) 3.2 (0.7) (3.8) (4.5)
Statutory earnings per share
Basic 7 22.4p (18.1)p 4.3p (4.4)p (13.1)p (17.5)p
Diluted 7 22.3p (18.0)p 4.3p (4.4)p (13.1)p (17.5)p 78 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year 3.2 (4.5)
Other comprehensive income
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 7.0 (8.1)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified to profit or loss (2.3) 2.4
Income tax on items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (0.9) 1.2
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of income tax 3.8 (4.5)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 7.0 (9.0)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 8.5 (9.5)
Non-controlling interests (1.5) 0.5
7.0 (9.0)
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
for 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015 (53 weeks ended 2 August 2014) Strategic report Governance
79 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
at 1 August 2015 (2 August 2014)
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets
 Property, plant and equipment 8 57.6 50.9
 Intangible assets 9 489.3 490.2
 Other financial assets 11 1.3 0.1
 Deferred tax assets 12 12.1 11.2
560.3 552.4
Current assets
 Inventories 13 28.3 28.8
 Other financial assets 11 1.1 –
 Trade and other receivables 14 25.3 26.0
 Cash and cash equivalents 40.7 53.8
95.4 108.6
Total assets 655.7 661.0
Current liabilities
 Trade payables and other liabilities 15 (145.2) (337.8)
 Provisions 19 (6.1) (5.8)
 Other financial liabilities 16 (0.8) (3.1)
 Current tax liabilities (8.2) (7.3)
(160.3) (354.0)
Non-current liabilities
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 17 (197.9) (306.6)
 Provisions 19 (4.4) (4.4)
 Other liabilities 15 (69.2) (70.8)
(271.5) (381.8)
Total liabilities (431.8) (735.8)
Net assets/(liabilities) 223.9 (74.8)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
 Share capital 21 319.5 42.6
 Share premium 21 40.4 –
 Merger reserve 21 18.6 –
 Cash flow hedging reserve 21 1.7 (3.0)
 Retained earnings (156.3) (113.5)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 223.9 (73.9)
Non-controlling interests – (0.9)
Total equity 223.9 (74.8)
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 7 October 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian Filby Bill Barnes
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director
Company registered number: 7236769 80 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger
 reserve 
£m
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Non-controlling 
interest
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 27 July 2013 42.6 – – 2.7 (108.7) (1.6) (65.0)
–
Loss for the year – – – – (5.0) 0.5 (4.5)
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) – – – (5.7) 1.2 – (4.5)
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) for  
the year – – – (5.7) (3.8) 0.5 (9.0)
Issue of shares in 
subsidiary – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Dividends – – – – (1.3) – (1.3)
Capital contribution – – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Balance at  
2 August 2014 42.6 – – (3.0) (113.5) (0.9) (74.8)
Profit for the year – – – – 4.7 (1.5) 3.2
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) – – – 4.7 (0.9) – 3.8
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) for  
the year – – – 4.7 3.8 (1.5) 7.0
Reorganisation on IPO 219.3 – 18.6 – (47.2) 3.3 194.0
Equity raised on IPO 57.6 40.4 – – – – 98.0
Dividends – – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Share based payments – – – – 0.6 – 0.6
Balance at  
1 August 2015 319.5 40.4 18.6 1.7 (156.3) – 223.9 Strategic report Governance
81 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
for 52 weeks ended 1 August 2015 (53 weeks ended 2 August 2014)
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating profit 60.6 60.9
 Adjustments for:
 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 17.0 14.7
 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.8) (0.7)
 Share based payment expense 0.6 0.3
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (1.6) 0.2
 Decrease/(increase) in inventories 0.5 (5.0)
 Increase in trade and other payables 2.4 13.2
 Increase/(decrease) in provisions 0.2 (0.4)
78.9 83.2
 Tax paid (8.4) (8.0)
Net cash from operating activities 70.5 75.2
Cash flows from investing activities
 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.8
 Interest received 0.1 0.2
 Acquisition of subsidiaries – (1.4)
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (19.0) (12.9)
 Acquisition of other intangible assets (1.8) (2.5)
Net cash from investing activities (19.8) (15.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
 Proceeds from new loan 200.0 –
 Interest paid (41.9) (42.1)
 Exceptional finance costs (10.4) –
 Repayment of borrowings (310.0) –
 Proceeds on issue of new shares 98.0 –
 Settlement of partly paid share capital 2.3 –
 Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.9) (0.6)
 Dividends paid (0.9) (1.3)
Net cash from financing activities (63.8) (44.0)
 Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (13.1) 15.4
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 53.8 38.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 26 40.7 53.8 82 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies
DFS Furniture plc (formerly Diamond Holdco 1 Limited, “the Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the 
United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the Group”). 
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in 
these consolidated financial statements. Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies 
that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next 
year are discussed in note 1.16.
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRS”). The financial statements are prepared on the historical 
cost basis except for certain financial instruments and share based payment liabilities which are measured at their fair value. 
The financial statements are for the 52 weeks to 1 August 2015 (last year 53 weeks to 2 August 2014).
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are 
presented on pages 105 to 107.
Initial Public Offering (“IPO”)
During the financial period, the Group successfully completed its IPO and the Company’s ordinary shares were admitted to 
trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 11 March 2015. 
In connection with the IPO the Group’s capital structure was reorganised and its borrowings refinanced. The Group’s £310.0 
million senior secured notes were repaid on 12 March 2015 and a new senior bank facility of £200.0 million drawn down at a 
significantly reduced interest rate, together with an undrawn revolving credit facility of £30.0 million . In addition, previous 
shareholder loans and accrued interest of £192.7 million were converted into ordinary share capital. The effect of these 
transactions was to significantly reduce the Group’s net debt and its future finance expenses.
Going concern
The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has sufficient medium and long term facilities in place, including 
£200.0 million of a senior loan facility maturing in 2020 and a £30.0 million revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 
which is as yet unutilised. Further details of these facilities and the Group’s financial management objectives are detailed in the 
financial statements.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, forecasts and projections, the Company’s directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
1.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries). Control exists when the Group is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its investment 
with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. In assessing control, potential 
voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from 
the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The acquisition method is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Gross sales and revenue
Gross sales represent the total amounts payable by external customers, without adjustment for the time value of money, for 
goods and services supplied by the Group, including aftercare services (for which the Group acts as an agent), delivery 
charges and value added and other sales taxes. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable by the Group for the provision of goods and services to 
external customers, being gross sales less: value added and other sales taxes, the costs of obtaining interest free credit on 
behalf of customers and the amounts relating to services for which the Group acts as an agent.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report Governance
83 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
Both gross sales and revenue are stated net of returns and sales allowances, and are recognised when goods have been 
delivered to the customer, the revenue and costs in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably and collectability is 
reasonably assured.
1.4 Expenses
Non-underlying and exceptional items
Items that are material in size, unusual or non-recurring in nature are disclosed separately in the income statement in order to 
provide an indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. The principal items which may be included as non-
underlying are:
• significant profit or loss on the disposal of non-current assets
• impairment charges
• accelerated fair value charges arising on equity settled share based payments
• costs associated with significant corporate, financial or operating restructuring, including acquisitions or the establishment 
of operations in new geographical territories
Material finance income or expenses associated with significant changes in the Group’s borrowings are disclosed separately 
as exceptional items below operating profit.
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The 
finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability.
Finance income and expenses
Finance expenses comprise interest payable, finance charges on finance leases recognised in profit or loss using the effective 
interest method and unwinding of the discount on provisions. Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds 
invested, dividend income, and net foreign exchange gains.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend 
income is recognised in the income statement on the date the Group’s right to receive payments is established.
1.5 Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
Short-term benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is 
provided.
Share based payments
The fair value of equity settled share based payments is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the related 
awards, with a corresponding increase in equity. Fair values are calculated using option pricing models appropriate to the 
terms and conditions of the awards. The amount charged as an expense is regularly reviewed and adjusted to reflect the 
achievement of service and non-market based performance conditions.
1.6 Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to 
the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 84 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial 
recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that 
they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
At interim reporting periods the tax charge is calculated in accordance with IAS 34, adjusted for material non-taxable items.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on deductible temporary differences only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
1.7 Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional 
currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in 
the income statement except for differences arising on qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income.
1.8 Business combinations
Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the acquisition cost over the Group’s interest in the assets and 
liabilities recognised. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as 
incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is 
classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the 
fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Acquisitions prior to 31 July 2011 (date of transition to IFRSs)
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The Group and 
Company elected not to restate business combinations that took place prior to 31 July 2011. In respect of acquisitions prior to 
transition, goodwill is included at 31 July 2011 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under 
UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that goodwill was amortised. On transition, amortisation of goodwill ceased as 
required by IFRS 1. 
1.9 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items 
of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as 
finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately 
from that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their 
fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and 
less accumulated impairment losses. Lease payments are accounted for as described in 1.4 above.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
85 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item 
of property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
• buildings   50 years
• plant and equipment  4 to 10 years
• motor vehicles   4 years
• computer equipment  3 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
1.10 Intangible assets and goodwill
Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not 
amortised but is tested annually for impairment. 
Other intangible assets
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets 
unless such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for 
impairment at each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
Estimated useful lives are as follows:
• computer software and website costs  3 years
• acquired brand names    20 years
1.11 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of finished goods manufactured by the Group 
includes direct materials, direct labour and appropriate overhead expenditure.
1.12 Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For goodwill, and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the 
recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment 
losses are recognised in profit or loss. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior 
periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An 
impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An 
impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
1.13 Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a 
past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the 
obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific 
to the liability.
Details of provisions recognised are in note 19 and the related significant estimates and judgments in note 1.16. 86 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
1.14 Non-derivative financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash 
and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. 
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
1.15 Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss 
depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see below).
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast 
transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging 
reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the 
associated cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedging reserve and is reclassified into profit or loss in the same period or 
periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
For other cash flow hedges the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Group revokes designation of the hedge 
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in 
equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no 
longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income 
statement immediately.
1.16 Significant areas of estimation and judgment
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgments, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the value of reported assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other relevant factors, but may differ from actual results. Significant areas 
of estimation for the Group include the costs of meeting customer guarantees and property related provisions (note 19), the 
selling prices applied in determining net realisable values of inventories (note 13) and the assumptions underlying the value in 
use calculation for the impairment of goodwill (note 9).
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
87 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
1.17 New accounting standards
A number of new or revised standards and interpretations have been issued which are not yet effective or endorsed by the EU, 
including IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, and which have not therefore 
been applied by the Group in these financial statements. Their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the 
Group’s financial statements.
 
2 Segmental Analysis
The Group’s operating segments under IFRS 8 have been determined based on management accounts reports reviewed by 
the Board. Segment performance is assessed based upon earnings before interest and tax excluding depreciation charges 
and non-underlying items (“underlying EBITDA”).
The Group has only one reportable segment, which derives its revenues from the retailing of upholstered furniture and related 
products. Activities included in other segments comprise the manufacture and distribution of upholstered furniture.
External sales Internal sales Total gross sales
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Retail 913.1 853.4 0.6 – 913.7 853.4
Other segments – – 92.7 89.1 92.7 89.1
Eliminations – – (93.3) (89.1) (93.3) (89.1)
Gross sales 913.1 853.4 – – 913.1 853.4
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Total segments gross sales 913.1 853.4
Less: value added and other sales taxes (141.4) (131.8)
Less: costs of interest free credit and aftercare services (65.6) (64.8)
Revenue 706.1 656.8
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Retail underlying EBITDA 82.4 75.2
Other segments underlying EBITDA 6.8 4.8
89.2 80.0
Depreciation & amortisation (17.0) (14.7)
Non-underlying items (note 3) (11.6) (4.4)
Operating profit 60.6 60.9
Finance income 0.1 0.2
Finance expenses (39.0) (57.5)
Exceptional refinancing costs (11.0) –
Profit before tax 10.7 3.6
 
A geographical analysis of revenue is presented below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
United Kingdom 689.7 643.3
Europe 16.4 13.5
Total revenue 706.1 656.8 88 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
3 Operating profit
Group operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£m
2014
£m
Depreciation on tangible assets 14.3 12.3
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.8) (0.7)
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.7 2.4
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 295.8 267.6
Write down of inventories to net realisable value 0.8 2.0
Non-underlying items:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accelerated share based payments charge 0.1 0.3
International and acquired business set-up costs 2.8 1.5
Non-recurring and exceptional legal and professional costs 8.7 2.0
Acquisition costs – 0.4
Restructuring costs – 0.2
11.6 4.4
Auditor’s remuneration:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Audit of the financial statements of Group subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
Amounts receivable by the company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.1
Other corporate finance services 0.8 0.6
1.1 0.9
4 Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2015 2014
Production 1,059 1,011
Warehouse and transport 727 729
Sales and administration 1,914 1,798
3,700 3,538
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 111.0 103.7
Social security costs 11.2 10.5
Other pension costs 2.2 2.2
124.4 116.4
Share based payment expense (equity settled) 0.6 –
125.0 116.4
Payroll costs in 2014 included £0.8m in respect of enhanced staff rewards relating to prior periods.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
89 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
5 Finance income and expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance income
Interest income on bank deposits 0.1 0.2
Total finance income 0.1 0.2
Finance expense
Interest payable on senior secured notes (14.2) (23.6)
Interest payable on senior loan facility (2.8) –
Bank fees (0.5) (0.5)
Fair value lease adjustment unwind (3.0) (3.0)
Interest payable on parent company loan (17.0) (29.8)
Interest payable on 17% cumulative redeemable preference shares (0.1) (0.2)
Interest payable on 8% vendor loan notes (0.2) (0.1)
Unwind of discount on provisions (0.1) (0.1)
Finance lease interest (0.3) (0.2)
Other interest (0.8) –
Total finance expense (39.0) (57.5)
Exceptional finance costs of £11.0m were incurred during the period as a consequence of the refinancing undertaken in 
connection with the Company’s admission to the London Stock Exchange (note 17). These costs primarily related to the 
redemption premium and write off of remaining unamortised issue costs on the Group’s £310.0m senior secured notes.
6 Taxation
Recognised in the income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax 
Current year 9.3 8.8
Adjustments for prior years – –
Current tax expense 9.3 8.8
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (1.6) (0.7)
Adjustments for prior years (0.2) –
Deferred tax expense (1.8) (0.7)
Total tax expense in income statement 7.5 8.1
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before tax for the year 10.7 3.6
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 20.67% (2014: 22.33%) 2.2 0.8
Non-deductible expenses 5.5 6.7
Deferred tax not recognised – 0.6
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.2) –
Total tax expense 7.5 8.1
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 1.4 0.5
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified to profit or loss (0.5) (1.6)
0.9 (1.1) 90 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
7 Earnings per share
Due to the changes in the Company’s capital structure as a result of the IPO, the weighted average number of shares in issue 
for the calculation of statutory and underlying earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IAS 33 below does not 
provide a meaningful basis for comparison to future reporting periods. The related changes to the Group’s financing 
arrangements including the repayment of the parent company loan have also had a similar impact.
The Directors have presented an adjusted underlying earnings per share in the Financial Review on page 29 which they 
consider provides a more useful measure for shareholders in respect of the current period. Adjusted underlying earnings per 
share excludes the tax-adjusted interest payments on the parent company loan from earnings and is calculated as if the 
number of ordinary shares in issue at 1 August 2015 had been in issue throughout both the current and previous financial 
years.
Statutory earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the financial period attributable to ordinary equity 
holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The 
weighted average number of shares reflects the movements in share capital detailed in note 21; changes in the Company’s 
capital structure with no corresponding change in resources are reflected as if they had occurred at the beginning of the 
earliest period presented.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the same net profit or loss for the financial period attributable to ordinary equity 
holders of the parent company, but increasing the weighted average number of ordinary shares by the dilutive effect of 
potential ordinary shares.
2015 
pence
2014 
pence
Basic earnings per share 4.3 (17.5)
Diluted earnings per share 4.3 (17.5)
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 4.7 (5.0)
2015 
No.
2014 
No.
Weighted average number of shares in issue for basic earnings per share 108,753,074 28,410,145
Dilutive effect of employee share based payment awards 380,479 –
Weighted average number of shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 109,133,553 28,410,145
Underlying earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the 
period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent company, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non-underlying 
items, by the same weighted average numbers of ordinary shares above used for basic and diluted earnings per share 
respectively.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 4.7 (5.0)
Non-underlying items 22.6 4.4
Tax effect of non-underlying items (2.9) (0.6)
Underlying profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 24.4 (1.2)
2015 
pence
2014 
pence
Underlying basic earnings per share 22.4 (4.4)
Underlying diluted earnings per share 22.3 (4.4)
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
91 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
8 Property, plant and equipment 
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Motor vehicles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 27 July 2013 3.3 54.8 12.7 70.8
Additions 0.4 8.8 6.1 15.3
Acquisition 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Disposals – – (3.8) (3.8)
Balance at 2 August 2014 3.8 63.8 15.0 82.6
Additions 1.7 13.7 5.7 21.1
Disposals – – (3.8) (3.8)
Balance at 1 August 2015 5.5 77.5 16.9 99.9
Depreciation and impairment 
Balance at 27 July 2013 0.3 18.6 4.2 23.1
Depreciation charge for the year 0.2 7.7 4.4 12.3
Disposals – – (3.7) (3.7)
Balance at 2 August 2014 0.5 26.3 4.9 31.7
Depreciation charge for the year 0.3 9.1 4.9 14.3
Disposals – – (3.7) (3.7)
Balance at 1 August 2015 0.8 35.4 6.1 42.3
Net book value
At 27 July 2013 3.0 36.2 8.5 47.7
At 2 August 2014 3.3 37.5 10.1 50.9
At 1 August 2015 4.7 42.1 10.8 57.6
Leased plant and machinery
Included in the total net book value of motor vehicles is £4.1m (2014: £3.4m) in respect of assets held under finance leases. 
Depreciation for the year on these assets was £1.5m (2014: £0.9m). 
Capital commitments
At 1 August 2015 the Group had contracted capital commitments of £2.1m (2014: £1.7m) for which no provision has been 
made in the financial statements. 92 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
9 Intangible assets 
Computer
 software
£m
Brand
Names
£m
Goodwill
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 27 July 2013 5.1 0.5 479.6 485.2
Additions 2.5 – – 2.5
Acquisition – 2.0 4.4 6.4
Balance at 2 August 2014 7.6 2.5 484.0 494.1
Additions 1.8 – – 1.8
Balance at 1 August 2015 9.4 2.5 484.0 495.9
Amortisation and impairment 
Balance at 27 July 2013 1.5 – – 1.5
Amortisation charge for the year 2.3 0.1 – 2.4
Balance at 2 August 2014 3.8 0.1 – 3.9
Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 0.1 – 2.7
Balance at 1 August 2015 6.4 0.2 – 6.6
Net book value
At 27 July 2013 3.6 0.5 479.6 483.7
At 2 August 2014 3.8 2.4 484.0 490.2
At 1 August 2015 3.0 2.3 484.0 489.3
Prior year acquisition
On 17 October 2013 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital and obtained control of The Sofa Workshop 
Limited, a UK based retailer of upholstered furniture. This acquisition was made to increase the Group’s sales in particular 
customer segments and product groups. The goodwill of £4.4m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the workforces 
and operations of the acquired business and the significant synergies expected to arise following the acquisitions.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
93 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
9 Intangible assets continued
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out below:
The Sofa 
Workshop 
Limited
£m
Property, plant & equipment 0.3
Identifiable intangible assets – brand name 2.0
Inventories 0.7
Cash 1.1
Trade and other receivables 0.7
Trade payables and other liabilities (2.9)
Deferred tax (0.4)
Total identifiable assets 1.5
Goodwill 4.4
Total consideration 5.9
Satisfied by:
8% vendor loan notes 2.0
17% preference shares in subsidiary 1.0
Equity shares in subsidiary 0.3
Other loan 0.1
Cash consideration 2.5
Total consideration 5.9
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 2.5
Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired (1.1)
1.4
 
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to the following cash generating units:
Goodwill
2015 
£m
2014
£m
DFS Trading Limited 479.6 479.6
The Sofa Workshop Limited 4.4 4.4
484.0 484.0
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment on the basis of value in use. The key assumptions underlying the calculations are 
those regarding expected future sales volumes, changes in selling prices and direct costs and the discount rate applied. 
Cash flow forecasts are prepared from the latest financial results and internal budgets for the next four years, which take into 
account external macroeconomic indicators as well as internal growth expectations. Selling prices and related costs are 
based on past practice and expected future changes in the market. These forecasts were extrapolated for six more years and 
discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 9%. The discount rates are estimated based on the Group’s weighted average cost of 
capital, risk adjusted for an individual unit’s circumstances. 
The Group has applied sensitivities to assess whether any reasonably possible changes in assumptions could cause an 
impairment that would be material to these consolidated financial statements. Even with an assumption of no further growth 
beyond the four year budgeted period, a discount rate in excess of 19% would need to be applied in order for there to be any 
indication of an impairment. The directors have therefore concluded that no reasonably possible change in assumptions 
would result in an impairment of the assets and accordingly none has been recognised. 94 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
10 Investments in subsidiaries
The following companies are incorporated in England & Wales, are wholly owned by the Group and have been consolidated:
Principal activity
Diamond Holdco 2 Limited Intermediate holding company
Diamond Holdco 7 Limited Intermediate holding company
DFS Furniture Holdings plc Intermediate holding company
DFS Furniture Company Limited Intermediate holding company
DFS Trading Limited Furniture retailer
Coin Retail Limited (Jersey) Intermediate holding company
Coin Furniture Limited Furniture retailer
The Sofa Workshop Limited Furniture retailer
DFS Spain Limited Furniture retailer
Diamond Holdco 3 Limited *
Diamond Holdco 4 Limited *
DFS Investments Limited *
Diamond Holdco 6 Limited *
Diamond Holdco 8 Limited *
Diamond Holdco Limited *
Northern Upholstery Limited *
Galegrove Limited *
New DFS Furniture Limited *
CF Ward Limited *
* Denotes subsidiary companies in members voluntary liquidation as part of a Group restructure subsequent to the IPO.
11 Other financial assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current 
Interest rate derivatives 1.3 –
Foreign exchange contracts – 0.1
Foreign exchange contracts 1.3 0.1
Current 
Foreign exchange contracts 1.1 –
Foreign exchange contracts comprise forward contracts which are used to hedge exchange risk arising from the Group’s 
overseas purchases (note 23).
Interest rate derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk on the Group’s floating rate debt (note 23).
12 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.9 0.7
Fair value lease creditor 4.9 5.0
Revaluation of derivatives to fair value (0.3) 0.6
Tax losses carried forward 0.4 –
Other temporary differences 5.2 4.9
Net tax assets 12.1 11.2
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
95 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
12 Deferred tax continued
The deferred tax movement in the year is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At start of period 11.2 9.8
Charged to the income statement:
 Accelerated capital allowances 1.2 0.7
 Fair value lease creditor (0.1) –
 Tax losses carried forward 0.4 –
 Other temporary differences 0.3 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries – (0.4)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (0.9) 1.1
At end of period 12.1 11.2
13 Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 4.7 5.9
Finished goods and goods for resale 23.6 22.9
28.3 28.8
14 Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 11.3 10.9
Amounts owed by non-controlling interests – 2.3
Prepayments and accrued income 13.3 12.2
Other receivables 0.7 0.6
25.3 26.0
No interest is charged on trade receivables; the Group bears no credit risk in respect of amounts due from retail customers 
under interest free credit arrangements. Prepayments and accrued income do not include impaired assets. 
15 Trade payables and other liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Payments received on account 23.6 24.2
Trade payables 64.8 62.4
Other creditors including other tax and social security 22.8 23.4
Accruals and deferred income 30.4 30.9
Amounts owed to parent companies – 194.6
Amounts due to non-controlling interests – 1.4
Other loans and borrowings 2.2 –
Finance lease liabilities 1.4 0.9
145.2 337.8 96 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
15 Trade payables and other liabilities continued
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Other creditors 21.2 21.8
Accruals and deferred income 44.4 44.0
Other loans & borrowings – 2.1
Finance lease liabilities 3.6 2.9
69.2 70.8
Trade payables do not bear interest and are paid within agreed credit terms. Property lease incentives are classified as 
non-current to the extent that they will be credited to the income statement more than one year from the reporting date.
The amounts owed to the parent company were repayable on demand and bore interest at LIBOR plus 17%, compounded 
annually.
16 Other financial liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current 
Foreign exchange contracts – –
Current 
Foreign exchange contracts 0.8 (3.1)
Foreign exchange contracts comprise forward contracts which are used to hedge exchange risk arising from the Group’s 
overseas purchases (note 23).
17 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are 
measured at amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see 
note 23.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Senior loan facility 200.0 –
Senior secured fixed rates notes due August 2018 – 200.0
Senior secured floating rate notes due August 2018 – 110.0
200.0 310.0
Unamortised issue costs (2.1) (3.4)
197.9 306.6
As at 2 August 2014, the Group had in issue £310.0m of senior secured notes listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The 
2018 fixed rate notes carried an interest rate of 7.625% payable six monthly on 15 March and 15 September. Interest on the 
floating rate notes accrued at LIBOR plus 6% and was payable quarterly on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September and 15 
December. The notes were denominated in Pounds Sterling and secured on the share capital and substantially all of the 
assets of the issuer and guarantors (DFS Furniture Company Limited and DFS Trading Limited).
As part of the refinancing associated with the Company’s admission to the London Stock Exchange, the 2018 notes were 
repaid in full on 12 March 2015 and a £200.0 million senior loan facility entered into on the same date. The senior loan facility 
bears interest at a rate of 3 month LIBOR plus 2.5% and is repayable in full on 12 March 2020. The senior loan facility is 
secured on a first priority basis with fixed and floating charges over substantially all of the assets of the Company and DFS 
Furniture Holdings plc.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
97 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
17 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2015 2014
Minimum lease 
payments Interest Principal
Minimum lease 
payments Interest Principal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 1.6 (0.2) 1.4 1.1 (0.2) 0.9
Between one and five years 3.7 (0.1) 3.6 3.0 (0.1) 2.9
More than five years – – – – – –
5.3 (0.3) 5.0 4.1 (0.3) 3.8
18 Employee benefits
Defined contribution pension plans 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans under which contributions by the employees and the 
Group are administered by trustees in funds separate from the Group’s assets. The costs of these schemes are charged to 
the income statement as they become payable under the rules of the scheme. The total pension cost of the Group for the 
year was £2.2m (2014: £2.2m).
19 Provisions
Guarantee 
provision
£m
Property 
provisions
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 2 August 2014 8.5 1.7 10.2
Provisions made during the year 6.5 – 6.5
Provisions used during the year (6.2) (0.1) (6.3)
Unwind of discount – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 1 August 2015 8.8 1.7 10.5
Current 5.9 0.2 6.1
Non-current 2.9 1.5 4.4
8.8 1.7 10.5
The guarantee provision reflects the estimated cost of the guarantee provided to retail customers. Property provisions relate to 
onerous contracts and other obligations in respect of the Group’s property leases.
20 Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the year:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Nil (2014: £0.03) per qualifying ordinary share – 1.3
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in the year were £0.9m (2014: £nil).
On 7 October 2015 the Directors declared an interim dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share and recommended a final dividend of 
6.2p per ordinary share in respect of the financial period ended 1 August 2015, resulting in a total proposed dividend of 
£19.8m. It is intended that both dividends will be paid on 30 December 2015. DFS Furniture plc shares will trade ex-dividend 
from 10 December 2015 and the record date will be 11 December 2015. These dividends have not therefore been recognised 
as a liability in these financial statements.  98 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
21 Capital and reserves
Share capital
Number of shares Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares of £1 each
2015
‘000
2014
‘000
2015
£m
2014
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At the start of the financial period 42,615 42,615 42.6 42.6
Issued during the year 192,708 – 192.7 –
Consolidation to ordinary shares of £1.50 each (235,323) – (235.3) –
At the end of the financial period – 42,615 – 42.6
Number of shares Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares of £1.50 each
2015
‘000
2014
‘000
2015
£m
2014
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At the start of the financial period – – – –
Consolidation of ordinary shares of £1 each 156,882 – 235.3 –
Issued during the period 56,148 – 84.2 –
At the end of the financial period 213,030 – 319.5 –
At 3 August 2014 the Company had in issue 42,615,218 ordinary shares of £1 each. On 17 February 2015 a further 
192,708,003 £1 ordinary shares were issued to capitalise principal and accrued interest on outstanding loans from parent 
companies. No gain or loss arose from this transaction as the carrying value of the shareholder loan reflected its fair value. 
One further £1 ordinary share was issued on 22 February 2015 and the resulting total of 235,323,222 ordinary shares of 
£1 each were then consolidated to 156,882,148 ordinary shares of £1.50 each.
On 10 March 2015 a total of 17,717,081 ordinary shares of £1.50 each were issued to senior management and certain other 
employees of the Group in exchange for their minority interests in the issued share capital of DFS Investments Limited, a 
subsidiary undertaking of the Company which has subsequently been placed into Members Voluntary Liquidation.
On 11 March 2015 a further 38,431,372 ordinary shares of £1.50 each were issued for cash consideration of £98.0m, 
conditional to the Admission of the Company’s shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange. This brought the total 
shares in issue at 2 August 2015 to 213,030,601 ordinary shares of £1.50 each.
Share premium
The share premium account represents the surplus of consideration received for issued ordinary share capital over its nominal 
value. The balance of £59.0m arose during the year on the issue ordinary shares on 11 March 2015 as noted above.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the issue of shares in the Company in exchange for minority interests in the issued share capital 
of a subsidiary company on 10 March 2015 as noted above.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow 
hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
99 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
22 Financial instruments: categories and fair value
2015
£m
2014
£m
Financial assets
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships 2.4 0.1
Loans and receivables 12.0 13.8
Cash 40.7 53.8
Financial liabilities
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships (0.8) (3.1)
Senior loan facility (197.9) –
Senior secured notes – (306.6)
Amortised cost (150.0) (345.6)
Finance lease obligations (5.0) (3.8)
All derivatives are categorised as Level 2 under the requirements of IFRS 7 as they are valued using techniques based 
significantly on observed market data.
Except as detailed below, the directors consider that the fair values of each category of the Group’s financial instruments are 
the same as their carrying values in the Group’s balance sheet.
2015 2014
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair 
value
£m
Carrying
 amount
£m
Fair 
value
£m
Senior secured notes
Fixed rates notes due August 2018 – – 200.0 208.5
Floating rate notes due August 2018 – – 110.0 110.6
– – 310.0 319.1
The fair values of the senior secured notes are their market values at the balance sheet date. Market values include accrued 
interest and changes in credit risk and interest rate risk and are therefore different to the reported carrying amounts. 100 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
23 Financial instruments: risk management
The objectives, policies and processes governing the treasury activities of the Group are reviewed and approved by the 
Board. The Group’s documented treasury policy includes details of authorised counterparties, instrument types and 
transaction limits and principles for the management of liquidity, interest and foreign exchange risks. As part of its strategy for 
the management of these risks the Group uses derivative financial instruments. The Group does not enter into or trade 
financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements to ensure that it has sufficient liquid resources to meet its 
obligations as they fall due while making efficient use of the Group’s financial resources.
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash flows (including interest) of the 
Group’s financial liabilities:
2015
Less than 1 year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 139.5 – – – 139.5
Finance lease liabilities 1.6 1.6 2.1 – 5.3
Senior loan facility 6.1 6.1 216.9 – 229.1
Other liabilities 6.0 3.1 0.6 1.9 11.6
153.2 10.8 219.6 1.9 385.5
Derivatives: net settled 2.8 2.8 7.6 – 13.2
Derivatives: gross settled
Cash inflows (72.4) – – – (72.4)
Cash out flows 72.0 – – – 72.0
Total cash flows 155.6 13.6 227.2 1.9 398.3
2014
Less than 1 year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 335.4 – – – 335.4
Finance lease liabilities 1.1 1.1 1.9 – 4.1
Senior secured notes 22.4 22.4 362.4 – 407.2
Other liabilities 5.7 3.1 0.6 2.1 11.5
364.6 26.6 364.9 2.1 758.2
Derivatives: gross settled
Cash inflows (72.4) (10.7) – – (83.1)
Cash out flows 75.7 10.6 – – 86.3
Total cash flows 367.9 26.5 364.9 2.1 761.4
The Group has a £30.0m revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 which is as yet unutilised.
Interest rate risk management
The Group’s operating profit is affected by the cost of providing interest free credit to its customers. A fall in LIBOR rates would 
have a positive impact on operating profit and a rise in LIBOR rates would impact operating profit negatively. An increase by one 
percentage point would reduce the Group’s revenue by 0.4 percentage points. However, any fall in LIBOR rates at present would 
largely be offset by LIBOR ‘floor’ mechanisms used by the external providers of credit to the Group’s customers.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its senior loan facility, which bears interest at a floating rate of 3 month GBP LIBOR 
plus 2.50%. In order to provide some certainty over the future cash flows associated with this debt, the Group has entered into 
four participating interest rate swaps. The effect of these instruments is to fix the interest rate payable on the senior loan facility to 
a maximum level while allowing the Group to retain some benefit on a proportion of the facility where 3 month LIBOR remains 
below 1.39%. The swaps cover the full £200.0m of the senior loan facility for its duration until March 2020. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
101 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
23 Financial instruments: risk management continued
Interest rate swaps
2015
£m
2014
£m
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships 1.3 –
Foreign exchange risk management
The Group is exposed to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations on the purchase of products denominated in foreign 
currencies. Currency requirements are assessed by analysis of historic purchasing patterns by month, adjusted as 
appropriate to take into account current trading expectations. The Group’s treasury policy allows for the use of forward foreign 
exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated future purchases up to 18 months in 
advance. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges.
The table below summarises the forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the period end:
2015 2014
Notional amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships
US Dollar 72.0 0.3 86.3 (3.0)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting 
date are as follows:
Assets Liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
US Dollar 0.1 – (0.8) (0.6)
Euro 8.0 8.3 (0.3) (0.7)
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group’s primary foreign currency exposures are to US Dollars and the Euro. The table below illustrates the hypothetical 
sensitivity of the Group’s reported profit and closing equity to a 10% weakening of these currencies against Sterling, assuming 
all other variables were unchanged. The sensitivity rate of 10% represents the directors’ assessment of a reasonably possible 
change, based on historic volatility. 
The analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the 
period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The analysis assumes that exchange rate fluctuations on currency 
derivatives that form part of an effective cash flow hedge relationship affect the cash flow hedging reserve in equity.
Positive figures represent an increase in profit or equity.
Income statement Equity
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
US Dollar 0.1 0.1 (7.2) (8.3)
Euro (0.8) (0.8) – –
A 10% strengthening of the above currencies against the Sterling at the period end would have had the equal but opposite 
effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant. 102 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
23 Financial instruments: risk management continued
Financial risk management 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s investment securities.
Investments of cash, borrowings and derivative instruments are transacted only through counterparties meeting the credit 
rating and investment criteria specified in the Group’s treasury policy. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its 
counterparties are regularly reviewed. Concentrations of risk are mitigated through the use of multiple counterparties and by 
counterparty limits which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having 
similar characteristics.
Capital management
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, as analysed in note 26, and equity attributable to the equity holders of the 
parent company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the consolidated statement of 
changes in equity. The Group manages its capital with the objective that all entities within the Group continue as going 
concerns while maintaining an efficient structure to minimise the cost of capital. The Group is not restricted by any externally 
imposed capital requirements.
24 Share based payments
The Group has two share based payment schemes in operation:
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP is a discretionary executive reward plan that allows the Group to grant conditional share awards or nil-cost options to 
selected executives at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The scheme is focused on the senior leadership roles in 
the Group, including Executive Directors. The maximum value of LTIP awards granted to an individual is 150% of base salary, 
although the Remuneration Committee may in exceptional circumstances increase this to 300%.
LTIP awards vest after a three year performance period (other than those granted shortly after Admission which will vest in 
July 2017) subject to the achievement of performance measures based on earnings per share and total shareholder return 
targets. Further information on LTIP performance targets and awards made to Directors is given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 73.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The RSP is also a discretionary reward plan under which conditional share awards or nil-cost options may be granted to 
individuals in key executive roles in the Group, excluding Executive Directors and other recipients of LTIP awards. Awards may 
not exceed 50% of an individual’s salary for a particular financial year. 
RSP awards vest after a three year performance period (other than those granted shortly after Admission which will vest in 
July 2017) and are not subject to other performance conditions.
The first awards under both schemes were granted shortly after Admission and are summarised below; no awards vested or 
were exercised during the period and at 1 August 2015 no outstanding awards were exercisable.
LTIP
No.
RSP
No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year – –
Granted 625,603 131,414
Outstanding at the end of the period 625,603 131,414
Weighted average remaining contractual life 24 months 24 months
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
103 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
24 Share based payments continued
Fair value calculations
Both the LTIP and RSP awards are accounted for as equity-settled under IFRS 2. The fair value of LTIP awards which are 
subject to a market based performance condition (total shareholder return) is calculated using a Monte Carlo option pricing 
model. RSP awards and LTIP awards subject to a non-market based performance condition (earnings per share) are valued 
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs to these models for awards granted during the financial period are 
detailed below:
LTIP RSP
Grant date 16 March 2015 16 March 2015
Share price at date of grant £2.71 £2.71
Exercise price Nil Nil
Volatility 23.3% 23.3%
Expected life 2.4 years 2.4 years
Risk free rate 0.54% 0.54%
Dividend yield 2.31% 2.31%
Fair value per share
Market based performance condition £1.34 n/a
Non-market based performance condition/no performance condition £2.71 £.2.71
As the Company had only limited share price history at the date of grant, expected volatility was based on a proxy volatility 
determined from the median volatility of a group of appropriate comparator companies within the FSTE All Share index. For 
the same reason, a similar approach was followed to derive the dividend yield. Expected life has been assumed to equate to 
the vesting period of the awards.
The total share based payment expense included in administration costs was £0.6m (2014: £0.3m) comprising £0.2m (2014: 
£nil) related to the LTIP and RSP schemes described above and £0.4m (2014: £0.3m) of accelerated charges in connection 
with the Company’s IPO which have been presented as non-underlying costs.
25 Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Less than one year 58.1 54.3
Between one and five years 222.5 208.1
More than five years 382.4 420.5
663.0 682.9
The Group has entered into operating leases in respect of stores, warehouses and equipment. These non-cancellable leases 
have remaining terms of between 3 months and 20 years. The majority of the Group’s operating leases provide for their 
renewal by mutual agreement at the expiry of the lease term.
During the year £56.7m was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases (2014: £51.6m). 
At 1 August 2015, future rentals receivable under non-cancellable leases where the Group is the lessor were £13.6m (2014: 
£14.3m).
26 Net debt
2014
£m
Cash flow
£m
Other non-cash 
changes
£m
2015
£m
Cash in hand, at bank 53.8 (13.1) – 40.7
Cash and cash equivalents 53.8 (13.1) – 40.7
Senior secured notes (306.6) 310.0 (3.4) –
Senior loan facility – (200.0) 2.1 (197.9)
Finance lease liabilities (3.8) 0.9 (2.1) (5.0)
Total net debt (256.6) 97.8 (3.4) (162.2) 104 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
27 Related parties
Key Management Personnel
At 1 August 2015, Directors of the Company held 3.2% of its issued ordinary share capital, and a further 1.6% was held by 
other key management personnel.
The compensation of key management personnel (including the Directors) is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Emoluments 2.7 2.7
Company contributions to money purchase schemes 0.2 0.2
2.9 2.9
The Chief Executive Officer waived his entitlement to a pension contribution from the Group and instead a donation of 
£50,000 (2014: £50,000) was made to a registered charity of which he is one of the trustees. 
Majority shareholder
During the financial period the Group paid £66,667 (2014: £80,000) in management fees to its majority shareholder, Advent 
Diamond (Luxembourg) Sarl.
28 Post balance sheet event
On 1 October 2015, the Group acquired the trade and assets of DFS Spain for cash consideration of £1.5m. As this 
acquisition only occurred six days before the date of this annual report, fair value calculations have not yet been prepared and 
are therefore not disclosed in these financial statements.
29 Controlling party
At 1 August 2015, Advent Diamond (Luxembourg) Sarl (“the Advent Shareholder”) held 53.2% of the Company’s issued share 
capital and was therefore the majority shareholder and controlling party of the Group. The Chairman is deemed to be a 
concert party of the Advent Shareholder. A relationship agreement between the Company, the Chairman and the Advent 
Shareholder was put in place with effect from the Admission of the Company’s shares to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange on 11 March 2015. This agreement, together with relevant Listing Rules and Companies Act requirements, is 
designed to enable the Company to carry on an independent business as its main activity and ensure that all transactions and 
relationships between the Company and the Advent Shareholder and its associates are at arm’s length and on a normal 
commercial basis.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Governance
105 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 31 235.5 42.6
Current assets
Amounts due from Group companies 32 98.0 –
Net assets 333.5 42.6
Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital 33 319.5 42.6
Share premium 59.0 –
Retained earnings (45.0) –
Equity shareholders’ funds 34 333.5 42.6
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 7 October 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian Filby Bill Barnes
Chief Executive Officer Director
Company balance sheet
At 1 August 2015 106 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
30 Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in 
relation to the financial statements of the Company. 
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP accounting standards under the 
historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is not required to present its own profit and loss account. The 
Company’s loss for the period was £45.2m (2014: profit of £1.3m).
The Company has applied the exemption available under FRS 1 (revised 1996) not to present its own cash flow statement 
since a consolidated cash flow statement has been presented in this annual report for the Group headed by the Company.
Going concern
The Company heads a group which is highly cash generative, with sufficient medium and long term facilities in place to enable 
it to meet its obligations as they fall due. The directors are therefore satisfied that the Company will be able to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to prepare the Company’s financial statements 
on the going concern basis.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost, less provision for any impairment.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period which takes into account deferred tax balances.
Deferred taxation is recognised, with discounting where relevant, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except 
where otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Share based payments
Awards (options or conditional shares) granted by the Company over its own shares to the employees of subsidiary 
companies are recognised in the Company’s own financial statements as an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries. 
The amount recognised is equivalent to the equity-settled share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements. The corresponding credit is recognised directly in equity.
31 Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost and net book value
At the start of the financial period 42.6 42.6
Additions 192.9 –
At the end of the financial period 235.5 42.6
Details of the Company’s investments are given in note 10. The increase in shares in subsidiary undertakings in the year arose 
on the Group reorganisation that took place in connection with the Admission of the Company’s ordinary shares to trading on 
the London Stock Exchange.
Notes to the Company financial statements Strategic report Governance
107 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Financial statements
32 Debtors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 98.0 –
33 Share capital and reserves
Details of the Company’s share capital and reserves are given in note 21.
Retained earnings
2015
£m
2014
£m
At the start of the financial period – –
Retained loss for the period (45.2) –
Share based payments 0.2 –
At the end of the financial period (45.0) –
Dividends from subsidiary companies will be paid to the Company to create sufficient reserves to pay intended dividends. 
In accordance with Companies Act requirements, the Company will lodge interim accounts with Companies House prior to 
payment of any dividends.
34 Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds
2015
£m
2014
£m
At the start of the financial period 42.6 42.6
Retained (loss)/profit for the period (45.2) 1.3
Share based payments 0.2 –
Issue of new share capital 335.9 –
Dividends paid – (1.3)
At the end of the financial period 333.5 42.6
35 Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by paragraph 3(c) of FRS 8 Related Party Transactions not to 
disclosure transactions with other Group companies. 108 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Shareholder information
Contacts:
Chief Executive Officer
Ian Filby
Finance Director
Bill Barnes
Company Secretary
Paul Walker
Head of Investor Relations
Mike Schmidt
Corporate website
www.dfscorporate.co.uk
Registered office
DFS Furniture plc
1 Rockingham Way
Redhouse Interchange
Adwick-le-Street
Doncaster
DN6 7NA
Corporate advisers
Auditor
KPMG LLP
Remuneration adviser
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Brokers
UBS Limited
Solicitor
Weil, Gotshal & Manges
Registrar
Equiniti
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrar is Equiniti. They will be pleased to 
deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or 
dividends. Please notify them of your change of address or 
other personal information. Their address details are:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti is a trading name of Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti helpline: 0871 384 2030 (calls to this number are 
charged at 10p per minute plus your phone company’s 
access charge). Overseas holders should contact +44 (0)121 
415 7047.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday 
(excluding public holidays).
Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online 
and facilities include electronic communications, account 
enquiries, amendment of address and dividend mandate 
instructions.
For institutional investor enquiries, please contact:
FTI Consulting
200 Aldersgate
Aldersgate Street
London
EC1A 4HD
+44 (0)20 3727 1000
Financial Calendar
2015 full year results 8 October 2015
Record date for 2015 final dividend 11 December 2015
Annual General Meeting 4 December 2015
Payment date for 2015 final dividend 30 December 2015
2016 half year results March 2016
Payment date for 2016 interim dividend June 2016  www.dfscorporate.co.uk
DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
DFS Furniture plc
1 Rockingham Way 
Redhouse Interchange
Adwick-le-Street
Doncaster
DN6 7NA
www.dfscorporate.co.uk www.dfs.co.uk
