 LEADING
WAY WAY WAY
Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
30
YEARS OF
Greatness
LEADING
Domino's Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 DominosPizza
DominosIreland
dominospizzadeutschland 
dominospizza.ch
@Dominos_UK
@Dominos_ROI
@Dominos_DE
YouTube: DominosUK1
Instagram: #dominos_uk
corporate.dominos.co.uk
dominos.co.uk/blog
STRATEGIC REPORT
01 Highlights of the year
02 Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06	 Chief	Executive	Officer’s	statement
10 Our business structure
11 Our business model
12 Our markets
14 Our strategy
16 Key performance indicators
18 Risk management
23 Longer term viability statement
24 Financial review
26 Corporate social responsibility report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
30 Board of Directors
32 Corporate governance
38 Nomination Committee report
39 Report of the Audit Committee
41 Directors’ remuneration report
62 Directors’ report
65 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 Independent auditor’s report
73 Group income statement
74	 	 Group	statement	of	comprehensive income
75 Group balance sheet
76 Group statement of changes in equity
77	 Group	cash	flow	statement
78	 Notes	to	the	Group	financial	statements
113 Company balance sheet
114	 Notes	to	the	Company	financial	statements
119	Five-year	financial	summary
120 Shareholder information
PIZZA PIZZA
UK’S LEADING
COMPANY COMPANY COMPANY Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 01
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Highlights of the year
 o UK performance continues to underpin growth with nine successive 
quarters of double-digit like-for-like (‘LFL’) sales
 o Continued success of digital investment programmes in the UK
 o   E-commerce system sales ahead by more than 30%
 o   App-based sales now represent the largest distribution channel, 
driving 48.6% of online sales
 o   In the UK, e-commerce sales now represent 77 .7% of all delivered sales
 o Record new store opening programme in the UK
 o   61 (2014: 40) stores opened in the year 
 o   New store average weekly unit sales (‘AWUS’) 15% ahead of last year
 o Further increase in franchisee profitability
 o   Store EBITDA
5
 performance up from 13.6% to 15.5%, 
driven by lower food prices
 o Improving performance in international businesses
 o   Economic recovery and operational improvements continue in the ROI
 o   Strategic joint venture in Germany, which has acquired the largest 
pizza delivery chain in the German market
 o   Continued progress being made in Switzerland
 o Group underlying operating profit from continuing operations up by 16.6% 
and earnings per share (EPS) up by 18.6%
 o Strong net cash flow of £29.4m and cash conversion of in excess 
of 100% – net cash of £40.4m and ready to resume share buy backs
 o Statutory revenue
4 
from continuing operations up 9.7% on last year
1  System sales represent the sum of all sales made by both Franchisee and Corporate stores 
in the United Kingdom, ROI and Switzerland to consumers.
2  Like-for-like sales are defined as sales from stores that were opened before 29 December 2013, 
compared to the corresponding 52 week period in the prior year.
3  Underlying is defined as excluding amounts in relation to onerous lease provisions, impairments, 
costs of acquisition of joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries, restructuring and one-off items.
4  Statutory revenues represent revenues directly attributable to DPG, being derived from monies paid by 
franchisees for foodstuffs together with royalty payments for use of the Domino’s brand, rental income 
from freehold and leasehold property and corporate store sales in Switzerland.
5  Franchisee data submissions to end of December 2015 based on stores opened before 31 December 2013.
6 2015 from continuing operations (2014 restated). 2011–2013 not restated.
2011
530.6
2012
586.5
2013
668.8
2014
757.8
2015
877.2
SYSTEM SALES
1,6
 £m
£877.2m
2011
3.7
2012
5.2
2013
7.0
2014
11.3
2015
11.7
UK LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES
2
 GROWTH
6
 %
11.7%
2011
42.2
2012
46.7
2013
47.6
2014
62.8
2015
73.2
UNDERLYING
3
 OPERATING PROFIT
6 
£m
£73.2m
2011
19.5
2012
22.2
2013
24.0
2014
29.9
2015
35.7
UNDERLYING BASIC EPS
6
 p
35.7p
“ 2015wasaterrificyearforDomino’sPizzaGroup;
the UK performancewasoutstanding,reflectingcontinued
investmentinoure-commerceplatform.Thisunderpins
bothourlike-for-likeresultsandthesuccessofournew
storeprogramme.Ourcashconversionisstrong.”
DavidWild,ChiefExecutiveOfficer
65
NEW STORES 
OPENED IN 
THE YEAR
84.9m
PIZZAS SOLD 
IN THE YEAR
67.4
%
OF UK TRANSACTIONS 
THROUGH 
E-COMMERCE
ChiefExecutiveOfficer’sstatement 6
Keyperformanceindicators 16
Financialreview 24 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 02
STRATEGIC REPORT
Group at a glance
TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE
ONE PIZZA AT A TIME ONE PIZZA AT A TIME ONE PIZZA AT A TIME
Wearedrivendayin,dayoutbyourbrandpurpose:
It taps into the entrepreneurial spirit embodied 
by our franchisees. It recognises the opportunity 
the brand has afforded to people to pursue their 
own dream of business ownership, populating 
our company culture with stories of ‘driver to 
manager to single store franchisee to multi-store 
business owner’. 
It inspires us to commit relentlessly to delivering 
one pizza at a time. We know that downtime is 
precious, we know that money is still tight, and 
we understand that delivered food cannot be a 
disappointment. We know that we have to deliver 
a hot, fresh, tasty pizza when we say we will.
It aligns with our desire never to stand still and 
innovate continually to improve our product, service, 
image and increasingly our use of technology. 
Innovation is in the DNA of the brand, be that 
from the invention of the ‘spoodle’, our patented 
heatwave technology, or the development 
of online and mobile ordering platforms.
This inspires and motivates us on three levels:
931
TOTAL STORES
87
FRANCHISEES
10.5
AVERAGE STORES 
PER FRANCHISEE
STORES
UK 869
RepublicofIreland  47
Switzerland* 15
*Corporateownership.
REVENUE £m
UK 283.7
RepublicofIreland 21.4
Switzerland  11.7
Howweoperate:
SUPPLY CHAIN
Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we 
continue to maintain an excellent relationship with our suppliers. 
We negotiate the best commercial terms and have many long-term 
supplier agreements in place. Our Supply Chain Centres continue 
to lead the way in relation to standards of excellence throughout 
Domino’s worldwide.
FRANCHISEES
Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to 
promoting the Domino’s brand. Their entrepreneurial spirit and 
drive ensure our continued success on the high street. It is our 
job to support our franchisees in their efforts to run profitable 
businesses and to ensure that high brand standards 
are achieved in all stores.
1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 3
ENTREPRENEURIAL 
SPIRIT
DEDICATED TO 
INNOVATION
KEEPING OUR 
PROMISES
93 +5+2+z 89 +7+4+z Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 03
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Leadingthewayin:
100
%
MOZZARELLA 
CHEESE
10m
APP DOWNLOADS
1m
FACEBOOK FANS
11 .7
%
LFL SALES 
GROWTH
We take great pride in the quality of our 
products and we work hard with our 
suppliers to make sure that each pizza 
uses the best possible ingredients. This 
means our customers can be confident 
that they are buying carefully sourced and 
prepared foods without hydrogenated fats 
or artificial flavourings and colourings.
We have made the transition from a 
bricks-and-mortar retailer to a genuine 
e-commerce retailer. We constantly strive 
to be at the cutting edge of technological 
innovation, as demonstrated by our initial 
commitment to online ordering in the 1990s, 
or the more recent development of our 
mobile app platforms. We are relentless 
in our pursuit of using technology to make 
our customers’ lives that little bit easier.
We take pride in the image we portray 
to customers. We invest our national 
advertising fund to help build the profile of 
the brand amongst our target audience. We 
have recently refreshed our store design to 
better celebrate the theatre of making fresh 
pizza. Our new store design reflects the 
freshness of the ingredients and provides 
customers with a window into the world of 
pizza making, showcasing that every one 
of our pizzas is made fresh to order. 
We are driven, day in, day out by our brand 
purpose ‘to feed the power of possible, one 
pizza at a time’. This desire to never stand 
still and push forward, be it in terms of store 
openings, technological and product 
innovation, customer service and the 
support for our franchisees underpins 
our performance.
PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY
ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE
Ourbusinessmodel 11 Ourstrategy 14 Ourmarkets 12 Seemore: Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
 o Systemsalesincreasedby15.8%
to £877.2m(2014:£757.8m)
 o Underlyingoperatingprofitof
£73.2m,up 16.6%(2014:£62.8m)
 o Underlyingearningspershare:
basic earningspershareup19.4%
to35.7p(2014: 29.9p)
 o Finaldividendincreasedby21.3%
to11.75ppershare(2014:9.69p)
bringingthetotaldividendforthe
yearto20.75ppershare,up 18.6%
(2014:17.50p)
Chairman’s statement
We celebrated our 30
th
 anniversary in 2015 and 
I am very proud that the Group has produced 
another excellent set of results. We continue to 
deliver as one of the strongest franchises across 
the Domino’s network worldwide and we are 
proud of our achievement as the number one 
pizza company in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
In the UK and ROI, our success in 2015 is rooted in revenue-driven 
profit growth based on continued investment in e-commerce initiatives 
and record levels of new store openings, underpinned by improving 
franchisee profitability. 
I am encouraged by the signs of progress we are seeing in Switzerland, 
where the mature store portfolio delivered improved profitability and 
where we continue to invest in new stores.
Towards the end of the year, we announced our intention to form a joint 
venture with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited in order to acquire 
Joey’s Pizza, Germany’s largest pizza delivery chain, which will give us 
the opportunity to participate in a larger scale business in this market.
The Group’s business model continues to be highly cash generative 
and will allow us to resume share buy backs.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend for 2015 of 11.75p (2014: 9.69p) 
per share, being a 21.3% increase on the final dividend for the prior 
year. Together with the interim dividend of 9.00p per share paid on 
4 September 2015, the total dividend for the year will be 20.75p per 
share, representing an increase of 18.6% on the dividend paid for the 
prior year (2014: 17.5p). The full year dividend is 1.7 times covered 
by underlying profits after tax (2014: 1.5 times). Subject to receiving 
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2016, 
the final dividend will be paid on 25 April 2016 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 11 March 2016. 
SUMMARY
STEPHEN HEMSLEY
CHAIRMAN Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 05
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
201 5 HAS BEEN ANOTHER YEAR OF EXCELLENT PROGRESS. 
I CONTINUE TO BE DELIGHTED WITH 
THE MOMENTUM ACROSS THE BUSINESS.
In readiness for this event, Steve Barber joined the Board on 1 July 2015 
as a non-executive Director and as chairman-designate of the Audit 
Committee. He brings over 40 years’ experience in accountancy and 
finance to our Board, both from an audit and corporate perspective 
and also has strong general management experience.
In my report last year, I noted that we were seeking a new Chief 
Financial Officer. On 8 June 2015, Paul Doughty joined the Board and 
was appointed as our CFO. Paul has more than 20 years’ commercial 
finance experience including 10 years as CFO with Moneysupermarket.com 
Group. Unfortunately, this appointment did not work out as either we or 
Paul would have liked, and he subsequently resigned as a Director and 
left the Board on 31 December 2015. A selection process is currently 
underway as we continue to search for the best possible candidate.
Conclusion
In summing up, 2015 has been another year of excellent progress. 
I continue to be delighted with the momentum across the business and 
the entire team can be very proud of their efforts. Our focus is now on 
2016 and I look forward with optimism to our continued progress in 
the next phase of the Group’s development.
StephenHemsley
Non-executiveChairman
Ourpeople
Our business relies on a network of entrepreneurial, diligent and 
driven franchisees who serve our customers day and night. Every year, 
I continue to be amazed by their ability to improve our business, for 
our mutual benefit. This year is no exception and I would like to place 
on record my thanks for all of their hard work and commitment, which 
continues to be the lifeblood of the business. Their willingness to invest 
in new stores and to explore other means of growth gives the Board 
continued confidence for the future.
Our franchisees in turn depend on Domino’s employees, and I want 
to thank them for their ongoing commitment and contribution, helping 
to keep us as the number one pizza company in every neighbourhood 
in which we operate, despite ever-increasing competitive pressures. 
Boardchanges
During the year, we have focused on consolidating the significant 
changes we made to the Board in 2014, but also addressed 
two recruitment challenges.
Michael Shallow had served for slightly more than nine years as a 
non-executive Director when he retired from the Board on 31 July 2015. 
I would like to thank Michael for his stalwart contribution to the Board 
of Domino’s, most recently as our Senior Independent Director, 
and we wish him well for the future. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 06
STRATEGIC REPORT
 o TheGroupopened65storesand
now operates931storesacrossour
three markets
 o IntheUKin2015,60%oftotal
orders weremadebycustomers
online, upfrom53.3%in2014
 o TheUKbusinessachievedsystem
sales growthof16.8%including
11.7% like-for-like
 o Wehavenowseentwoyearsof
growth inROIandtheDublin
marketis demonstrablystronger
thantherestof thecountry
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Overview
2015 was another very successful year for the Group with double-digit 
system sales growth, and I am particularly pleased with the strong 
performance of new stores in the UK, where we achieved a record 
number of openings. This excellent performance is the result of a 
relentless focus on driving our digital offering through investment and 
innovation, ambitious targets for new store openings and focusing 
on franchisee profitability. 
We had a good year in the Republic of Ireland despite currency headwinds, 
with growth driven by improved performance from digital channels.
Internationally, we have ceased operating directly in the German market, 
having entered into a strategic joint venture arrangement, which acquired 
the largest pizza delivery chain in the country. I am also encouraged by 
our continued progress in Switzerland.
Our strategy remains simple and clear. We aim to be the number one 
pizza company in each neighbourhood in which we operate, through 
a commitment to offering the best product, service and quality to 
our customers.
UKandROI
UK
The UK business delivered an impressive set of results from the 869 stores 
that were trading at the year-end (2014: 813). System sales were 16.8% 
ahead, driven by strong like-for-like performance with growth of 11.7%. 
Like-for-like order volumes were ahead by 9% whilst average order value 
grew by 2.4%, helped by an increased proportion of bundle deals offering 
value for money.
We believe that our continued focus on the three priorities set out in our 
preliminary announcement last year remains fundamental to our 
success in the UK:
 o e-commerce: We have continued to increase investment in our digital 
offering, driving a higher number of customer visits, improved conversion 
rates and larger order values.
 o New store openings: The rate of openings accelerated in the period 
with a record number of 61 new stores in the UK in 2015; these 
continue to perform well, providing a foundation for future growth 
and confirming our long-term opportunity.
 o Franchisee profitability: The Group has maintained its focus on 
franchisee profitability by continuing to pass on cost savings, therefore 
increasing the appetite for further investment by franchisees.
SUMMARY
DAVID WILD
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
In July 2015 we launched our mobile responsive website which adapts 
and responds to the mobile device that the customer is using. Enhanced 
customer usability ultimately drives sales and profitability through 
improved engagement and conversion rates. During the fourth quarter 
we introduced the one-touch order button, which allows for credit card 
details and favourite baskets to be saved for future use, making the 
experience even more convenient. More enhancements are planned 
for the year ahead.
Brand
2015 saw our 30th anniversary in the UK as we concentrate on building 
our brand image. The success of our app downloads has enabled us to 
switch some advertising spend from digital to conventional, and we 
commenced sponsorship of the TV show ‘Hollyoaks’ in January 2015, 
which reaches 10 million viewers in the 16-34 age group. This has 
generated a media value of almost £12.0m, and has helped to drive 
spontaneous awareness of Domino’s to 73% and improve brand recognition 
among teens and families. Our sponsorship of the X-Factor app ensures 
brand salience during the key weekend evening slots (2015 downloads: 
2.4m). We launched our ‘Pizza Legends’ initiative, where customers can 
‘create their own’ pizza, with great success across all channels, with 
almost 0.4m creations to date. The Channel 4 documentary ‘A Slice of Life’ 
demonstrated the truly extraordinary passion that our team members 
have, with over one million views resulting in a significant increase 
in recruitment applications.
Product
We continue to innovate, refresh and improve our product range to 
respond to changing customer demand: in terms of pizza development 
we saw the introduction of the Tikka Pizza and we reintroduced the hot 
dog stuffed crust. In stores we slowed oven speeds to allow for a longer 
cook time and to increase the quality of our finished product across 
the range.
The ‘basket’ composition has continued to evolve in the UK, as the 
Group has focused on providing value oriented, full meal solutions 
through bundle offers. On a like-for-like basis, pizza volumes are 8.1% 
ahead, side orders are 12.1% ahead, while dessert and drink volumes 
are 14.8% and 32.7% ahead of 2014 respectively.
e-commerce
The Group’s investment in e-commerce software development increased 
significantly in 2015 and it is expected to rise further in 2016, reflecting 
our continued commitment to providing the business, our customers and 
franchisees with a best-in-class digital platform. In the UK, e-commerce 
sales now represent 77.7% of all delivered sales, up from 70.8% in 2014, 
with app-based sales accounting for 48.6% of online sales. Being 
digitally enabled allows us to drive further growth in the UK business.
Digital channels deliver a number of benefits for both the consumer 
and our franchisees. From a consumer perspective, promotional offers 
are more easily accessed, ensuring that consumers get the best value. 
Franchisees benefit through store labour efficiencies and being better 
able to target local marketing campaigns, particularly through customer 
relationship management.
As a result of this strategy online orders in the UK were 28.6% ahead and 
average order value was 1.7% ahead of last year. App-based orders were 
41.1% ahead and order value was 2.0% ahead. 11.5m customers have 
downloaded the app.
Despite these strong results we are striving to deliver further digital 
innovation in order to improve our customer experience even more. 
DURING THE FOURTH QUARTER WE INTRODUCED THE ONE-TOUCH ORDER BUTTON.
MORE ENHANCEMENTS ARE PLANNED 
FOR THE YEAR AHEAD. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 08
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
UKandROI continued
UK continued
New stores
2015 saw record store openings of 61 in the UK, bringing the total 
portfolio to 869 (2014: 813). The performance of these new stores has 
been excellent with average weekly unit sales (‘AWUS’) 14.5% ahead of 
similar openings in 2014. These include both virgin territories and those 
existing areas which have been ‘split’, increasing density, improving service 
for customers, and increasing sales and profitability for franchisees. 
26 of the 61 stores opened were splits. We provide incentive packages 
to franchisees to encourage proactive opening of stores in areas that 
meet our strategic requirements for the estate, including lower address 
counts and splits. Depending on the nature of the incentive these may 
be spread over the life of the lease. The total incentives cost in 2015, 
including the impact from previous years, was £1.7m. Five stores were 
closed in 2015. Four of these were non-traditional formats, which had 
initially been launched as a trial in 2013 but did not generate sufficient 
volumes to make them viable. A full provision was made in 2014 for 
the costs associated with closing these stores. 
2015 SAW RECORD STORE 
OPENINGS OF 61 IN THE UK.
Franchisees
Our franchisees sit at the heart of everything we do. They have both 
driven and shared in our success. The Group is committed to ensuring 
that they are successful, and in 2015 profitability improved year on year, 
primarily as a result of the benign food price environment combined 
with the Group’s purchasing power. In 2015, we passed on savings 
of £11m from lower food costs, primarily from cheese and dough. 
The outlook remains favourable for 2016. 
Supply chain
We are particularly proud of our supply chain in the UK, which is one of 
the most sophisticated and efficient across the Domino’s global network. 
Our main facility is located at West Ashland, Milton Keynes, with a 
secondary plant in the North-west in Penrith, and we opened a satellite 
base in Livingston, Scotland, during the year. We have commenced our 
building project for a new main facility in Warrington which is due 
to open in early 2018, and are also opening a further satellite base in 
the South-west. Although the supply chain handled record volumes in 
2015, it did so whilst improving on already excellent service levels to 
stores, with delivered-on-time-to stores measures increasing to 99.8%.
It is our commitment to franchisees that we provide them with high 
quality product at low cost. Our philosophy is based on establishing 
long-term relationships and we are able to leverage the system’s buying 
power to secure the most competitive deals with quality suppliers. 
ROI
ROI delivered a good set of results despite currency headwinds, with 
system sales of €56.0m (2014: €51.7m) in local currency, with a sterling 
value of £40.7m (2014: £41.8m). In local currency sales were ahead by 
8.3%, but in sterling they were 2.7% behind, reflecting the relative 
strength of sterling against the euro. We now operate 47 stores across 
the ROI with the Dublin stores performing well and benefiting from the 
continued economic recovery. We are looking at upgrading and 
relocating our supply chain centre.
Our digital channels continue to improve in ROI. Online sales were 
30.4% ahead of 2014 and now represent 51.7% of delivered sales, 
up from 44.3% last year. App-based growth continues to drive digital 
adoption and now accounts for 60.2% of online sales, up from 46.9% 
in 2014. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Outlook
Despite the volatile macroeconomic environment, 2015 has been a 
record year for system sales, and also saw us entering into a landmark 
joint venture transaction to transform our activities in Germany. In 
Switzerland, we are seeing encouraging signs of progress and have 
completed a programme of store refurbishments which are already 
showing some of the intended improvements. The UK and ROI business 
continues to set sales records, and we sold 82.4m pizzas in the year, 
averaging over 230,000 per day. We continue to exploit the opportunities 
of new technology to the full, with e-commerce now being the source of 
over two thirds of our total sales. This robust base gives us confidence 
for the future, and during 2016 we expect to be opening around 65 new 
stores and will be investing in additional supply chain centres in the UK 
and ROI. We have opened six stores in the UK and one store in Switzerland 
in 2016 already and we believe that significant growth remains possible 
in the core UK and ROI business for many years to come.
We have made a good start to 2016, although we are conscious 
of increasingly tough comparatives for the rest of the year.
DavidWild
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
2 March 2016
Switzerland
We made good progress in Switzerland with three relocations and four 
new store openings, resulting in 15 stores at the end of 2015 (2014: 11), 
all of which are under corporate ownership and operation. Despite the 
pressures within the Swiss economy, on retail sales in particular, following 
the upwards revaluation of the Swiss Franc at the beginning of 2015, 
our business managed to generate an increase in system sales of 18.4% 
in local currency to CHF17.0m (sterling: 21.0% and £11.7m). Like-for-like 
sales were 5.4% ahead of last year in local currency, with the mature 
store portfolio significantly improving profitability, although the country 
experienced a very hot summer with a negative impact on sales.
Underlying operating losses for the year were £1.3m (2014: £1.0m) 
with the increase reflecting the costs of training, food and labour costs 
associated with opening new stores. The increased profitability of the 
existing store portfolio gives us a solid base which allows us to continue 
building up the store network.
Germany
We announced in December 2015 that the Group has entered a strategic 
joint venture in Germany which has acquired the largest German pizza 
delivery chain. As a result of the transaction, the Group is no longer a 
direct operator in the German market. The transaction completed on 
1 February 2016 and we are excited by the prospects that a larger 
scale business in this market can generate. 
Most of our existing operations in Germany have been sold into the new 
joint venture. The remainder of the business has either closed down 
already or been earmarked for closure. The total result for Germany, 
which is shown as discontinued operations, is a loss of £9.6m, which 
includes underlying trading losses of £3.3m (2014: £7.3m).
OurPeople
I would like to thank the Domino’s team for their hard work. I also want 
to pay tribute to our franchisees whose tireless endeavours ensure that 
our customers continue to enjoy great pizzas at great prices every day 
– whether ordered online or by phone, delivered to the door or collected 
in store. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 10
Our business structure
DOMINO’S 
PIZZA INC.
SHAREHOLDERS
FRANCHISEES CUSTOMERS
1 1 1
2 2 2
3 3 3 4 4 4
DOMINO’S PIZZA 
INTERNATIONAL 
FRANCHISING INC.
One of the Group’s key 
relationships is with Domino’s 
Pizza International Franchising Inc. 
(‘DPIF’), the master franchisor of 
Domino’s Pizza across the globe. 
We have two Master Franchise 
Agreements in place with DPIF, 
relating to the territories in which 
the Group sub-franchises in UK 
and ROI; and Switzerland, 
Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
FRANCHISEES
The Group has a committed and 
entrepreneurial group of franchisees 
and actively seeks to recruit new 
franchisees to the business. The 
growth of existing franchisees is 
critical to the continued growth of 
the Group. Whilst nearly all of the 
stores in the UK and ROI are 
franchised, the Group operates 
corporate stores in Switzerland.
Franchisees enter into a standard 
franchise agreement in respect 
of each store for an initial term of 
10 years, with an option to renew 
for a further 10 years.
1 1 1 3 3 3
SHAREHOLDERS
The cash generated by the 
Group allows us to sustain a 
generous shareholder return in 
the form of a progressive dividend 
policy and share buybacks, whilst 
also investing in the future of 
the business.
CUSTOMERS
Our goal is to be the number 
one pizza company in each 
neighbourhood in which we 
operate. Customers can order 
online, by phone or in store.
2 2 2 4 4 4
DOMINO’S 
PIZZA GROUP 
PLC
STRATEGIC REPORT 11
Domino’sPizzaGroupplc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
FRANCHISEES
 o We choose our franchisees carefully, as it is their commitment and 
entrepreneurial approach that drive the growth of the business. 
Each franchisee signs up to a Standard Franchise Agreement (‘SFA’) 
and pays royalties to us for the use of the brand.
 o We work with franchisees to choose the right sites. We enter into 
head leases and sub-let to the franchisee, which means we can 
grow our network of pizza stores without committing significant 
amounts of capital. Sub-letting our sites to franchisees means that if 
the franchisee chooses to leave the system, we still control the site.
 o We agree business growth opportunities and objectives with the 
franchisees, support them in delivering these and enforce our 
brand standards.
 o Franchisees buy the fresh dough we manufacture, and 
also pay us for the topping ingredients and other goods 
we source from third-party suppliers under long-term 
contracts, or direct from other approved suppliers.
BRAND
 o The Domino’s brand is owned by DPIF and is highly 
respected globally – customers know that it is the sign 
of consistently great pizzas and other products.
 o In each territory, we hold an exclusive 10 year Master Franchise 
Agreement, with the option to extend for a further 10 years, for 
which we pay royalties to DPIF . Provided we are in good standing, 
we have the legal right to renew each of these MFAs in perpetuity.
 o Access to the brand also includes significant know-how and other 
intellectual property, which we can build on with our knowledge 
of the territories in which we operate.
 o We review the opportunities that arise from time to time for 
international growth within the Domino’s system.
PRODUCTS
 o Quality – our customers tell us they would rather spend a little bit 
more on a hot, fresh meal made with superior ingredients.
 o Speed of delivery – customers trust us to deliver a high quality 
product on time.
 o Value – customers are increasingly sophisticated in seeking value 
for money and expect offers and deals tailored to their needs.
 o Ease of ordering – over 75% of our delivered orders are now placed 
via digital channels. Customers value the ease of ordering we offer, 
especially through our phone and tablet apps which now make up 
about half of our digital orders.
SUPPORT
o Our goals are to drive like-for-like sales from our 
existing stores, and to seek and exploit every opportunity 
to grow our store portfolio.
o We monitor market trends and customer feedback and use this 
to drive continual improvement, new product development and 
to identify market opportunities.
 o Our franchisees all contribute to the National Advertising Fund, 
which we deploy wisely for mutual benefit on a range of advertising 
and promotions.
 o We invest heavily in our digital business – we are proud to be seen 
as the market leader in digital ordering but continue to seek new 
ways to create ever-easier ordering systems.
PEOPLE
 o In the UK and ROI people working in stores are employees of the 
franchisee who owns and operates that store, in Switzerland store 
staff are employed by the Group. The Group also employs staff at its 
Head Office in Milton Keynes, the Swiss office in Zurich and Supply 
Chain Centres in the United Kingdom, ROI and Switzerland. 
 o We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe our 
employees are one of the main champions of the brand, so we place 
significant emphasis on how we recruit and develop them. 
 o We put safeguards in place to require that our franchisees treat their 
staff with respect and in accordance with brand standards. 
We continually strive to update and train our staff on a regular basis, 
and encourage franchisees to invest in their people on the same basis.
DOMINO’S 
PIZZA GROUP 
PLC
Our business model
We operate one brand, with one tightly defined set of products delivered by a small number of carefully chosen franchisee partners. 
Our business is built on relationships. There are four cornerstones to our business model, all underpinned by the great people we 
and our franchisees employ:
In this section, we lift the lid on how we create and preserve value for our shareholders. 
Everything we do is rooted in our vision and determination to be the number one pizza 
company in every neighbourhood in which we operate. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 12
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our markets
UK
SUPPLY CHAIN 
CENTRES
24
NORTH-EAST
52
YORKSHIRE 
AND THE 
HUMBER
23
NORTHERN 
IRELAND
92
NORTH-WEST
62
EAST MIDLANDS
93
EAST OF ENGLAND
68
WEST MIDLANDS
38
WALES
63
SCOTLAND
156
SOUTH-EAST
117
LONDON
79
SOUTH-WEST
2
MOBILE UNITS
We remain very confident about the 
macroeconomic environment in the UK.
THE UK REMAINS ONE OF THE MOST 
DYNAMIC FOOD MARKETS IN THE WORLD,
AS IT CONTINUES TO BECOME A NATION OF ‘FOODIES’ .
A prolonged period of growth in gross domestic product, low interest 
rate levels, the longer term trend of customer confidence, and a decline 
in unemployment rates to their lowest levels since 2005 have all 
contributed to a meaningful increase in disposable income. 
The eating out market has benefited from the improving economy. 
The market is now seeing growth across times of day, driven by 
more people eating out, more frequently, and now also spending 
more at each visit. 
We believe that the increase in the living wage will have a positive 
impact on the category and contribute towards an increase in disposable 
income amongst customers, though our franchisees’ costs may rise. 
One of the biggest challenges for companies in our category is the 
attraction and retention of quality team members in what is an 
increasingly competitive labour market. 
Whilst the brand operates in a very benign food cost environment, 
the positive economic outlook is making its presence felt in increased 
property costs and demand for good quality locations.
Domino’s has been well positioned to take advantage of a number 
of favourable tailwinds within the eating out market. The trend from 
independents to brands, from full service to quick service restaurants, 
and the trend towards delivery, all of which we expect to continue. 
The UK remains one of the most dynamic food markets in the world, as 
it continues to become a nation of ‘foodies’, with new food trends and 
concepts emerging all the time. The overriding trend has to be the more 
demanding customer requiring quality, freshness and value. 
Domino’s has positioned itself at the forefront of technology. We now 
live in a truly ‘on demand’ society, driven by millennials’ demand for 
convenience. Within the UK, e-commerce is now very much the 
mainstream, with mobile the most dominant of multi channel platforms, 
with mobile payments starting to gain traction. The much anticipated 
Internet of Things is starting to have an impact on customers’ lives, with 
products like smart TVs and internet enabled watches and thermostats 
growing in popularity. Click and collect has emerged as a new digital 
channel. Increasingly digital technology will be applied to personalise 
consumer communication. 
At the time of writing, there remains much speculation about the 
potential impact of any Government initiatives on Domino’s trading 
environment. We remain committed to providing clear information on 
the nutritional content of our food, providing customers with choice 
alongside a programme of product development to meet customers’ 
increasing demand for healthier options. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Gross domestic product has been flat, unemployment rates have 
increased marginally, (albeit from a very low base), and inflation rates 
have remained very low. Consumer prices are tumbling, with the notable 
exception of rents. However, it is expected that with improvements 
in the international economy there should be a gradual improvement 
in the Swiss economy. 
Consumer trends affecting consumption of delivery/takeaway food 
continue to look positive. Longer working hours, an increase in single 
person households and demands for more convenient meal solutions 
ordered via digital platforms bode well for the growth of the category. 
The delivery/takeaway market continues to be dominated by 
independents that have not really focused on delivery. The market has 
more recently been invigorated by the growth of branded pizza delivery 
chains such as Domino’s. 
We have a tremendous opportunity to demonstrate the quality of our 
food, invite people to experience our store theatre, drive e-commerce 
and focus our marketing on delivery strengths. 
We are very optimistic about the impact the 
continued economic recovery will have on 
our business in Ireland. 
Whilst Swiss economic performance has been 
relatively soft, we believe the underlying factors 
point to a positive trading environment. 
Ireland
Switzerland
THERE IS ALSO A MORE PRONOUNCED 
TREND FOR LOCAL PROVENANCE 
OF INGREDIENTS.
CONSUMER TRENDS AFFECTING CONSUMPTION 
OF DELIVERY/TAKEAWAY FOOD CONTINUE TO
LOOK POSITIVE.
The continued growth in gross domestic product, low levels of inflation 
and national unemployment rates at its lowest since 2009 continue to 
drive a recovery in customer confidence.
One of the most striking trends recently has been the two-tier nature of 
the recovery, being felt mostly in Dublin but less so in more rural areas. 
The Dublin economy continues to be fuelled by increased foreign 
investment, driving unemployment rates down; simultaneously driving 
rapid rises in the rental market in commuter belt areas. In rural areas, 
unemployment rates remain higher, with many people in negative equity 
and therefore spending remains far more cautious.
It is encouraging that in general younger consumers are not burdened 
by negative equity, don’t have families to support and therefore have 
higher disposable income, although their spending habits are far more 
cautious than previous generations. We are now seeing less emigration 
from these well educated younger age groups than we did through 
tougher economic times. 
As in the UK, the overriding trend within the delivery/takeaway market 
is one of freshness, health and value for money. There is also a more 
pronounced trend for local provenance of ingredients and a trend 
towards delivery and convenience. 
Smartphone penetration continues to drive the Irish e-commerce 
market, with over 70% of the Irish adult population now claiming 
to own a smartphone. 
869
UK 
STORES
47
IRELAND 
STORES
15
SWITZERLAND 
STORES Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 14
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our strategy
ACCELERATE LEADERSHIP 
IN DIGITAL AND MOBILE
ACCELERATE SALES GROWTH 
IN THE UK
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
 o We successfully grew like-for-like sales by 11.7% fuelled by like-for-like 
order count growth of 9.0%. On a two-year basis, our like-for-like sales 
performance stands at 19.1% and our two-year like-for-like order 
count growth at 18.1%. Our three-year like-for-like sales performance 
stands at 33.0% and our three-year like-for-like order count growth at 
22.9%, which gives us confidence that the business has momentum.
 o We opened 61 new stores across a balance of existing and virgin 
territories and saw sales from new store openings hit record levels 
at an average of £15.5k. Sales from immature stores rose by 3% on 
2014, giving us further confidence about future sales performance 
from new store openings.
 o Independent econometric analysis has demonstrated we have 
increased return on investment from national marketing spend, 
as a larger store footprint benefits better from national advertising 
activity, and the digitalisation of the business enables us to attribute 
more sales directly from digital marketing spend.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
 o We accelerated UK sales from online from 60.2% to 67.4% and from 
44.1% to 48.6% in mobile, demonstrating how the business has 
become a genuine e-commerce retailer. We have seen UK online 
sales increase by 30.8% and mobile sales increase by 51.0%.
 o We have increased conversion on website and average basket spend.
 o Our commitment to innovate in this space has been demonstrated 
by the launch of our mobile responsive website in July 2015, as well 
as the introduction of the one-touch order button to make the 
experience even more convenient.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Grow like-for-like sales driven predominantly 
by an increase in like-for-like order count.
 o Open new stores in existing and virgin territories.
 o Improve marketing spend effectiveness.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Increase incidence of sales from online and mobile. 
 o Improve commercial performance of online 
and mobile platforms.
 o Innovate in digital to ensure the brand remains top of mind, 
places customers in control of the ordering process and 
gives them confidence that their order is on its way.
FOCUS FOR 2016
 o Continue to grow sales at the midweek and weekend dinner 
occasions by providing the best quality and the most convenient 
complete meal solutions.
 o Continue to optimise marketing spend effectiveness through the 
optimal combination of broadcast and digital marketing channels. 
 o Convert a healthy pipeline of new store targets and franchisee interest 
into new store openings and continue our store re-image programme.
FOCUS FOR 2016
 o Continue to improve performance of our key performance metrics 
of conversion rate, basket abandonment rate, bounce rate 
and basket spend.
 o Drive a step change in performance from our mobile platforms. 
 o Increase e-commerce development resource to accelerate 
development of a number of software initiatives to improve 
the customer experience online and on mobile.
1 1 1 2 2 2 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
ACCELERATE IMPROVEMENT IN 
FRANCHISEE PROFITABILITY 
GROW INTERNATIONAL 
MARKETS PROFITABLY
4 4 4
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
 o We have been encouraged by the like-for-like sales growth in ROI, 
(2014: 4.3%, 2013: 6.0%, 2012: -0.3%) and the adoption rates 
of our e-commerce platforms. 
 o Progress made in Switzerland has been solid and focused 
on improving the operational gearing in this corporate market. 
Our mature store portfolio doubled in profitability.
 o We entered into a landmark joint venture transaction to transform 
our activities in Germany.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
 o We successfully improved franchisee profitability per store with store 
EBITDA performance up from 13.6% to 15.5% in 2015.
 o As a consequence of the benign food cost environment and some 
good work from our procurement teams, we have passed on £11m 
of food cost savings.
 o We paid £6.7m in rebates to franchisees, which is a 14% increase 
on 2014.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Drive sales growth in ROI as the economy recovers.
 o Grow sales and open new corporate stores 
in Switzerland.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Improve franchisee profitability year-on-year.
 o Ensure lowest food cost supply.
 o Reward volume growth.
FOCUS FOR 2016
 o Drive like-for-like sales growth in ROI through a combination 
of new product, new value and new technological initiatives. 
 o Drive like-for-like sales in Switzerland through improved 
e-commerce platforms and opening of new corporate stores.
FOCUS FOR 2016
 o Increase marketing investment to grow sales per store to leverage 
store-level profitability – grow the top line to grow the bottom line. 
 o Continue to work with suppliers in long-term partnership to ensure 
consistently high food quality and lowest food cost supply with better 
rewards for volume growth.
 o Improve business partner resource to help franchisees find 
opportunities to improve profitability through a greater focus on 
labour and non-food items within the store profit and loss account.
3 3 3 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
Key performance indicators
CHANGE FROM 2014
+15.8%
DESCRIPTION
System sales represents the most useful indicator of the overall strength 
of the Domino’s brand in the UK, ROI and Switzerland. The Group measures 
the total sales of the Group’s franchisee and corporate store system in the 
UK, ROI and Switzerland, to external customers, for the 52-week period, 
compared to the 52 week reporting period in 2011–2014.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
In 2015, system sales grew by 15.8% to £877.2m (2014: £757.8m).
CHANGE FROM 2014
no change
DESCRIPTION
The UK and ROI’s target is to safely deliver its product to its customer 
within 30 minutes of an order being placed. 
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
The percentage of orders that are delivered within 30 minutes remained 
steady at 82.0% (2014: 82.0%).
CHANGE FROM 2014
+16.6%
DESCRIPTION
Underlying Group profit before tax (‘underlying PBT’) is a good indicator 
of the efficiency of the business model for the shareholders and franchisees 
alike. The Group measures underlying PBT compared to the 52-week 
reporting period in 2011–2014.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Underlying PBT for the period was up 16.6% to £73.2m (2014: £62.8m).
3  Underlying is defined as excluding amounts in relation to onerous lease provisions, 
impairments, restructuring and one-off items.
4 2015 from continuing operations (2014 restated). 2011–2013 not restated.
DESCRIPTION
Like-for-like sales growth represents a very useful barometer of organic 
growth and is an accepted measure of performance across all 
retailing sectors.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Like-for-like sales in the 765 stores that were open in both periods being 
compared grew by 11.7% (2014: 11.3% growth in 724 stores). Over the 
last five years the average like-for-like growth was 7.8% (2014: 8.3%).
CHANGE FROM 2014
+40bps
3.7
5.2
7.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
11.3
11.7
In order to continue to implement, develop and measure the Group’s strategic 
performance, we monitor eight financial and non-financial key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’) in addition to the Group’s income statement results.
UK LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES GROWTH
1
 %
11.7%
SYSTEM SALES
2,4
 £m
£877.2m
DELIVERED ON TIME %
82.0%
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX
3,4
 £m
£73.2m
1  Like-for-like sales are sales in UK stores that were open before 2014 compared 
to the corresponding 52-week period in the prior year.
2  Total sales made by all franchisee and corporate stores in the UK, ROI and 
Switzerland to the public. It is not revenue attributable to Domino’s as it is derived 
mainly for stores owned by franchisees.
530.6
586.5
668.8
757.8
877.2
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
82.7 83.4 82.8 82.0 82.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
46.7 47.6
62.8
73.2
42.2
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
CHANGE FROM 2014
+18.6%
DESCRIPTION
The interim dividend paid and the final dividend proposed divided 
by the number of shares eligible for dividends. 
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Dividend per share for the period was up 18.6% to 20.75p 
(2014: 17.50p).
CHANGE FROM 2014
+30.2%
DESCRIPTION
The focus on digitalisation of the business drives this measure.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
In 2015, the sales of the stores in the UK and ROI, to external 
customers, via the website (www.dominos.co.uk and www.dominos.ie), 
grew by 30.2% to £573.6m (2014: £440.3m).
CHANGE FROM 2014
+21 stores
DESCRIPTION
A strong indicator of growth in our business is continued 
presence by increasing store numbers.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
65 new stores were opened during the 52-week period 
ended 27 December 2015 (2014: 44 in 52-week period 
ended 28 December 2014).
DESCRIPTION
Underlying total earnings, divided by the total number of shares. 
PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Underlying basic earnings per share for the period was up 19.4% 
to 35.7p (2014: 29.9p).
Directors’remunerationreport
page41
CHANGE FROM 2014
+19.4%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
19.5
22.2
24.0
35.7
29.9
UNDERLYING BASIC EPS
3,4
 p
35.7p
DIVIDEND PER SHARE p
20.75p
E-COMMERCE SALES £m
£573.6m
NEW STORE OPENINGS
4
65
3  Underlying is defined as excluding amounts in relation to onerous lease provisions, 
impairment, costs of acquisition of joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries, 
restructuring and one-off items.
12.3
14.5
15.9
17.5
20.75
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
183.1
263.7
338.0
440.3
573.6
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
62
69
57
44
65
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Ourstrategy 14 Riskmanagement 18 Directors’remunerationreport 41 Seemore: Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 18
STRATEGIC REPORT
Risk management
All businesses choose to take considered risks in the expectation of 
earning a return for their shareholders. The Board has determined its 
risk appetite, stating the risks it seeks to take (or is prepared to face) 
within the company’s business model and the adopted strategy, and has 
also defined the risks it is not prepared to take. The latter are avoided 
or eliminated as far as possible, or transferred to insurers.
The Board is responsible for overseeing management’s activities in 
identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group. Importantly, 
we treat identifying and managing risk as an integral part of managing 
the business, and not as an additional bureaucratic chore. Risks are 
recorded in the Group’s risk register and regularly reviewed and evaluated. 
Each risk has a business owner, responsible for managing that risk, 
implementing appropriate controls and mitigating actions and reporting 
on it to the Leadership Team. In turn, the principal risks are reported 
on to the Board.
As a sense-check on management’s actions, the Board undertakes its 
own assessment of principal risks in each year, which is then integrated 
into the risk register. These known risks are taken into account in 
developing the Group’s strategy and business plans.
The business faces a wide range of risks on a daily basis. The Board 
has undertaken a robust assessment of what it believes are the principal 
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The table overleaf 
summarises these principal risks and how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
The risks in this table have been assessed on a residual basis according 
to our current view of the potential severity (being the combination of 
impact and probability) and assume that existing controls are effective. 
The risks therefore represent a snapshot of what the Board believes are 
the principal risks and are not an exhaustive list of all risks the Company 
faces. We have linked the risks to the strategic pillars described on 
pages 14 and 15. The environment in which we operate is constantly 
evolving; new risks may arise, the potential impact of known risks may 
increase or decrease and/or our assessment of these risks may change.
BUSINESS 
OWNER
GROUP 
EXECUTIVE
LEADERSHIP 
TEAM
IDENTIFY 
RISK
ASSESS RISK 
AND IMPACT
REGULARLY 
REVIEW AND 
EVALUATE
CREATE 
MITIGATION 
STRATEGY
UPDATE 
KEY RISK 
REGISTER
THE BOARD
Principalrisksanduncertainties
Ourapproach
The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group and, 
during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on assessing the likely 
impact that each identified risk could have on the business. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC RISKS
People-relatedrisks 
 
Linktostrategicpillars
1 and 2
Risk
The business is overly dependent on key 
individuals (either at executive level or in relation 
to specialist skills), possibly exacerbated by 
a failure to attract or retain the skilled and 
experienced people it needs
Potentialimpact
Medium
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
The Board considers succession planning on 
a regular basis and has set the CEO a personal 
objective of developing multiple potential 
successors. Contingency plans are in place 
which could be implemented on a short-term 
basis should we suddenly lose a key executive. 
The business is considering whether to open 
a site away from Milton Keynes to assist in 
the recruitment and retention of specialist 
IT developers
Natureofthreat
These risks could have some impact on future 
performance, for a limited time
Changefrom2014

Commentary
This risk has increased in significance 
temporarily, following the loss of the CFO 
during the year
Failuretorespondto and
overcomecompetitivepressures
Linktostrategicpillars
1, 2 and 3
Risk
The business faces strong competition from 
a range of players, including those exploiting 
emerging technologies or new food options 
and new entrants into the UK market
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Low
Mitigation
Management keeps the competitive landscape 
under continual review and the Board also 
monitors the markets in which it operates, 
as well as KPI data on the current business. 
Strategy is reviewed and developed by the 
Board on at least an annual basis
Natureofthreat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance or, in an extreme 
scenario even the business model
Changefrom2014

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year
Inabilitytoreacttochanges
in thehealthdebateandpublic
desireforhealthierfood
Linktostrategicpillars
1 and 3
Risk
As society’s expectations evolve, and 
governmental acts on public health concerns, 
we may need to change the products we offer 
and our approach to marketing
Potentialimpact
Medium
Probability
High
Mitigation
Management keeps consumers’ purchasing 
preferences under continual review and 
adjusts menus in response to these. We also 
engage, appropriately, with Government on 
the public health debate to ensure that our 
views are understood by policy makers 
and influencers
Natureofthreat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance or, in an extreme 
scenario even the business model
Changefrom2014

Commentary
We are monitoring the Government’s Childhood 
Obesity Strategy due to be published in early 
2016. It is likely that this will have an impact 
on several areas of our business Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 20
STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERATIONAL RISKS
Risk management continued
STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED
Commercialleverage
of large franchisees
Linktostrategicpillars
1
Risk
The Group has a number of franchisees whose 
businesses run large numbers of stores, and 
so enjoy some commercial leverage. The Group 
may be unable to persuade these franchisees 
to implement our preferred strategies, or to 
pass on cost increases in full or in part
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
Open and transparent relationships with multi-site 
franchisees are managed at senior levels of 
the Group. We also explain the profit-sharing 
model to all franchisees, so that they understand 
that success is mutual. Numbers of stores 
managed by the large franchisees are monitored
Natureofthreat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance for a period of time
Changefrom2014

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year
Foodsafety
Linktostrategicpillars
1, 3 and 4
Risk
There is the risk of contamination in either the 
pre-proved dough we produce at the Group’s 
Supply Chain Centres, or in the pizza topping 
ingredients we distribute to our franchisees’ 
stores. In Switzerland, we operate corporate 
stores, and are responsible for finished 
products, which exacerbates this risk
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
The business has implemented a 
rigorous regime of standards and food 
safety checks, working with the 
appropriate Government regulator
Natureofthreat
If this risk materialised, it could have a 
significant impact on future performance and 
potentially liquidity, for a limited time. The 
reputational impact could have a longer term 
effect on performance and, in an extreme 
case, threaten the business model
Changefrom2014

Commentary
Although the Group has grown in scale during 
the year, this risk has not changed materially 
since 2014
FailuretoachieveUKgrowth
throughnewstoreopenings
Linktostrategicpillars
1 and 3
Risk
Failure to meet store growth targets would be 
a breach of our Master Franchise Agreements. 
Our ability to open new stores depends on our 
ability to lease or buy suitable premises, obtain 
the necessary planning approvals and identify 
a suitable franchisee to run the store
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Low
Mitigation
Board approval is needed for the targets 
contained within the MFAs, and the Board 
monitors the pipeline of proposed store 
openings on a continual basis. Franchisee 
development programmes are run and we 
employ surveyors to identify and secure 
appropriate premises
Natureofthreat
These risks could have an impact on future 
performance, In an extreme case an unremedied 
breach of the MFA could threaten the Company’s 
business model and liquidity
Changefrom2014

Commentary
The growth achieved in 2015 demonstrates 
that we are able to meet challenging store 
opening targets. Despite the larger estate, 
we remain confident of our ability to continue 
opening new stores and believe that this risk 
has reduced in significance over the year Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERATIONAL RISKS
SupplyChainCentresareunable
tosupplythestores
Linktostrategicpillars
1, 3 and 4
Risk
We distribute both the pre-proved dough we 
produce and third-party pizza toppings to our 
franchisees stores. In the event of physical 
damage to, or loss of, a Supply Chain Centre 
we would need to make urgent contingency 
arrangements wherever possible. However, the 
space required to hold dough whilst proving 
forms a critical constraint to our business
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
In the event of the loss of a Supply Chain 
Centre, third-party ingredients could be 
delivered to stores direct, at an additional cost. 
The Group is considering developing additional 
dough proving facilities, which would mitigate 
this risk significantly. Loss of our dough 
production facilities would be more difficult to 
overcome, but contract production of dough 
would be possible, at an additional cost
Natureofthreat
These risks could have a significant impact on 
future performance and potentially liquidity, 
for a limited time
Changefrom2014

Commentary
The growth in scale of the Group during the 
year means that we are nearing our current 
capacity for proving dough, so the potential 
impact of this risk has increased since 2014
Failureofonlineorderingsystems
foraprolongedor critical period
Linktostrategicpillars
1, 2, 3 and 4
Risk
Over 75% of delivered sales are now placed 
online, around half of which are using apps for 
mobile devices. As well as the reliance on data 
centres and our own software developed 
in-house, there is also a risk from malicious 
denial of service attacks
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
Cyber-risk appears on the Board agenda on at 
least an annual basis and management reviews 
the performance of its IT infrastructure on a 
continual basis. Our systems are hosted by 
third-party specialists, with parallel processing 
across multiple sites and real-time replication 
and appropriate protection from malicious 
attempts to disrupt the availability of our sites. 
The business is considering whether to open 
a site away from Milton Keynes to assist in 
the recruitment and retention of specialist 
IT developers
Natureofthreat
These risks could have some impact on future 
performance, for a limited time
Changefrom2014

Commentary
Since a greater proportion of pizza ordering is 
now online, this risk has increased in significance 
during the year
Interruptionofraw
material supplies
Linktostrategicpillars
1, 3 and 4
Risk
The business relies on a number of third-party 
suppliers for pizza toppings, some of whom 
provide the sole source of an ingredient. 
These suppliers must make a commercial 
return to stay in business and reinvest in their 
operations. The Group would be vulnerable if 
a supplier decided to cease trading, suffered a 
major interruption or food safety incident, or 
was responsible for an ethical breach of such 
severity that the Group would no longer trade 
with them
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Low
Mitigation
Suppliers who are selected through 
competitive tendering and appropriate due 
diligence processes, supply the Group under 
long-term contracts. The economics of their 
businesses are kept under review and their 
performance against their obligations 
monitored. We assess their compliance 
with acceptable business standards
Natureofthreat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance for a limited time
Changefrom2014

Commentary
Although the Group has grown in scale during 
the year, this risk has not changed materially 
since 2014 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 22
STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED
Implementationofenterprise
resourceplanning(‘ERP’)system
Linktostrategicpillars
1 and 4
Risk
The Group intends to implement an ERP 
system during 2016. While this is expected 
to improve the internal control environment, 
the transition from, and eventual removal of, 
legacy IT systems creates continuity risks. 
In addition, the design and implementation 
of new operating practices and culture needed 
to bring the ERP system into full effect creates 
further risk to the Group’s business
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
The business has been planning the 
implementation of ERP for 2½ years and has 
selected a product with a good track record 
on ease of installation and an experienced 
consultancy to support the implementation. 
Company-side education sessions have 
already begun and those employees affected 
are being familiarised with the new software 
and operating practices
Natureofthreat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance, for a limited time
Changefrom2014

Commentary
This risk has not changed since 2014, but will 
increase in significance as we implement the 
ERP system during 2016
Lossofpersonaldatarelatingto
customers,employeesorothers;
lossofcorporatedata
Linktostrategicpillars
2 and 3
Risk
For ease of use, our online ordering systems 
hold some customer data, the loss of which 
(whether accidental or following hacking) 
would cause disruption and cost to the Group. 
In addition, the Group’s own data on employees 
and suppliers is exposed to the same risks 
of loss
Potentialimpact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
Cyber-risk appears on the Board agenda on 
at least an annual basis and management 
keeps the security of data under its ownership 
or control under continual review. We do not 
hold customer credit card data on our systems. 
Franchisees are trained in their obligations 
in respect of personal data and are required 
to train their staff appropriately. Appropriate 
IT security is in place and kept under 
continual review
Natureofthreat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance. In an extreme scenario, 
the reputational damage could possibly threaten 
the business model if we suffered a total loss 
of consumer confidence
Changefrom2014

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year
Risk management continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Longer term viability statement
TheCompany’scurrentposition
The Group’s business model, which is explained on page 11, has been 
shown to be robust over the thirty years since the business was formed. 
We operate under what is effectively a perpetual Master Franchise 
Agreement in each key territory, so our business model is long-term 
and effectively open-ended. The Group’s strategy, which is explained 
on pages 14 and 15, is well-established and we have a market-leading 
position in the UK and ROI business and have successfully exploited 
the emergence of e-commerce as a sales channel. We continue to open 
new pizza stores and drive increases in like-for-like sales, and can 
demonstrate strong growth in system sales, and Group turnover and 
profitability, over many years. Our business is profitable and we successfully 
convert almost all of this into cash generation. At 27 December 2015, 
the Group has net cash at bank of £39.8m and a committed £30m 
five-year bank facility, which expires in August 2017.
The Board has considered its appetite for risk and there is a clearly 
articulated statement of this which forms the basis for the Group’s risk 
management activities.
Ourstrategicplanningprocess
The CEO, supported by the leadership team, is responsible for the Group’s 
strategic planning process. This is an annual review of the current 
strategy, informed by monitoring of market trends and developments 
and in-house analysis, supported where necessary by external market 
research. This results in a draft strategic plan, supported by detailed 
financial modelling, which is debated by the Board at its annual strategy 
away-day. The Board’s role includes considering whether the plan 
appropriately factors in the changing external environment and whether 
the Group has access to the financial, technical and human resources 
necessary to implement it successfully.
The resulting agreed strategic plan is generally prepared on a five-year 
basis, but both management and Board are aware that we operate in a 
fast-moving environment. For example, a significant proportion of the 
Group’s system sales are placed using mobile devices, some of which 
were only brought to market in the last five years. As a result, while 
the early years of that strategy form the business plan against which 
management will be held to account, the later years are an extrapolation 
of those early years and therefore subject to revision in the light of 
changing circumstances. 
Theprocessofassessingourviabilityandkeyassumptions
The strategic plan reflects the directors’ best estimate of the future 
prospects of the business, but we have also assessed the potential 
impact on the Group of a number of scenarios based on each of the 
principal risks and uncertainties described in this section of the annual 
report. Those risks are ‘key’ because they could prevent the Group from 
delivering on its strategy. Although our strategic plans have a five year 
horizon, we chose to model the impact of these risks over a period of 
three years in view of the dynamic nature of our business and the 
environment in which we operate, and also the inherent unreliability 
of some data when forecast five years in advance.
We have also explored the impact of ‘severe but plausible’ 
combinations of these risks, in circumstances that we believe 
the Group could experience, including:
 o only managing to open half of the planned number of new pizza 
stores, while simultaneously suffering an assumed 20% increase 
in the costs of sourcing food ingredients; and
 o the complete failure of our e-commerce ordering systems in the 
two busiest weeks of our trading year, while simultaneously suffering 
a breach of data security leading to additional costs and a 5% 
reduction in sales due to lost customer confidence. 
The key assumptions in this modelling of our strategy and the impact 
of the principal risks include:
 o while a number of industry commentators believe that there is 
a natural ceiling on the number of pizza stores we can open, the 
Group has consistently delivered growth ahead of these predictions. 
We continue to assume that the UK market, in particular, is capable 
of sustaining the growth in store numbers we anticipate; and
 o that the bank facility, which expires in August 2017, can be renewed 
or replaced on terms acceptable to the Group.
The first of these key assumptions is one of the Group’s principal risks 
and explained further in the risk management section. The second 
assumption is not, in itself, seen as a key risk as we believe that banks 
will be willing to lend to a profitable, cash generative company with a 
proven business model. However, the availability of working capital is 
essential to any business which may face short-term pressures on its 
cash flows. 
The results of this modelling showed that, due to the inherent strength 
and stability of our business, the Group should be able to withstand the 
impact should any of these scenarios materialise over the three-year period.
We also investigated whether ‘reverse stress-testing’ would offer an 
alternative view. As we have net cash at bank and a committed bank 
facility, we could find no plausible scenario which had such an impact 
on the Group’s future performance, solvency or liquidity that it would 
lead to the Group’s financial failure. The most obvious risk which could 
have such a effect would be a breach of the Master Franchise 
Agreement, which is highly improbable. 
Longertermviabilitystatement
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year period to the end of December 2018. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
Financial review
The Group operates across a number of territories. 
The key performance indicators shown below 
relate to continuing operations. 2014 has been 
restated accordingly.
27December 28 December
2015 2014 Variance
Systemsales(£m)
UK and ROI £865.6m £748.2m 15.7%
Switzerland £11.7m £9.6m 21.9%
Like-for-likesalesgrowth
UK 11.7% 11.3% 
ROI 8.6% 4.3% 
Switzerland 5.4% 4.7% 
Statutoryrevenue(£m)
UK £283.7m £257.6m 10.1%
ROI £21.4m £21.5m (0.5)%
Switzerland £11.7m £9.6m 21.9%
Underlyingoperating
profit/(loss)(£m)
UK and ROI £74.5m £63.8m 16.8%
Switzerland £(1.3)m £(1.0)m (27.9)%
UnderlyingbasicEPS
(pence) 35.7 29.9 19.4%
Revenue
Group sales increased by £28.1m or 9.7% to £316.8m (2014: £288.7m). 
The increase in revenues is driven by a 15.8% increase in system sales. 
In the UK revenue saw a 10.1% increase to £283.7m (2014: £257.6m) 
and in Ireland revenue remained flat at £21.4m, owing to currency 
headwinds. In Switzerland revenue increased by 21.9% to £11.7m.
Commodityprices
During 2015, we and our franchisees enjoyed the benefits of a benign 
food price landscape with a record low cheese price, favourable wheat 
price and a fall in fuel costs. For the full year 2015 the average food basket 
in the UK saw a year-on-year decrease of 1.6% of store sales over 2014, 
which is a combination of the favourable food cost environment and the 
continued efforts of our supply chain procurement function to leverage 
the Group’s buying power and secure the most competitive deals with 
quality suppliers. Food costs remain benign going into 2016.
 o Systemsalesincreasedby15.8%
to £877.2m(2014:£757.8m)
 o Underlyingoperatingprofitof
£73.2m,up 16.6%(2014:£62.8m)
 o Underlyingbasicearningspershare:
up19.4%to35.7p(2014: 29.9p)
 o Finaldividendincreasedby21.3%
to11.75ppershare(2014:9.69p)
bringingthetotaldividendforthe
yearto20.75ppershareup 18.6%
(2014:17.50p)
SUMMARY Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Underlyingoperatingprofit/(loss)
Underlying operating profit increased by 16.6% to £73.2m, higher than 
system sales, demonstrating the favourable operational gearing from our 
operating model.
In the UK and ROI, underlying operating profit increased by 16.8% to 
£74.5m (2014: £63.8m), compared with system sales growth of 15.7%. 
The share of profits from our investments in associates and joint ventures 
has increased to £1.7m, up from £1.0m in 2014. We continue to view 
these joint operations as an excellent value generator and the opportunity 
to share in the full value chain of the Domino’s system. 
In Switzerland the underlying operating loss increased to £1.3m 
(2014: £1.0m) as a result of the costs associated with the opening 
of new stores. Our mature store portfolio increased its profitability 
compared to 2014. 
Discontinuedoperations
As a result of the transaction to enter into a strategic joint venture in 
Germany in December 2015, which means that the Group ceased direct 
operations in this market, the German results are disclosed as discontinued 
operations. They comprise an underlying trading loss of £3.3m (2014: £7.3m) 
and non-underlying charges of £6.7m (2014: £1.0m), which comprise 
closure and exit related costs.
The tax impact of discontinued operations is a £0.4m credit 
(2014: £1.6m credit).
Interest
Net interest expense for 2015 was £nil (2014: £1.4m), primarily 
comprising net external interest of £0.1m (2014: £0.8m), net impact 
of the unwinding of discounts relating to long-term provisions of £nil 
(2014: £0.5m), offset by foreign exchange impact on foreign currency 
loans of £0.1m (2014: £0.3m expense).
Taxation
The underlying and statutory effective tax rate is 19.0% (2014: 
underlying: 20.1%; statutory: 20.6%), reflecting the impact of some prior 
year adjustments and the decrease in the UK corporation tax rate from 
23% to 21% from 6 April 2014, and from 21% to 20% from 6 April 2015. 
Earningspershare
Underlying basic earnings per share for the period was 35.7p, 
representing 19.4% growth over last year (2014: 29.9p). Underlying 
diluted earnings per share for the period was 35.2p, up 18.5% on 
the prior year (2014: 29.7p).
Statutory basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the 
period was 35.7p, up 19.8% on the prior year (2014: 29.8p). Statutory 
diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the period 
of 35.2p was up 18.9% on the prior year (2014: 29.6p). 
Statutory basic and diluted earning per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations for the year were 29.9p (2014: 25.9p) 
and 29.5p (2014: 25.8p) respectively.
Cashflowsandcashbalance
The Group has a consistent record for strong cash generation. 
As at 27 December 2015, the Group had net cash of £40.4m 
(28 December 2014: net cash of £11.0m). Cash flow from operations 
was £80.4m (2014: £68.5m) with an EBITDA conversion rate of in 
excess of 100%. The main cash outflows related to dividends of £31.0m 
(2014: £27.5m), taxation of £11.4m (2014: £8.1m) and capital 
expenditure of £12.0m (2014: £6.9m). Capital spend included IT related 
investments of £5.0m (2014: £2.5m) and supply chain maintenance 
and expansionary purchases of £1.5m (2014: £1.3m).
The Group continues to support franchisee investments in new store 
development through leasing arrangements through DP Capital Limited. 
After repayments the balance outstanding at the year-end on these 
leases was £2.0m (2014: £2.2m). These facilities are financed by a 
limited recourse facility and the amounts drawn down at the year-end 
stood at £1.9m (2014: £2.3m).
The Group has a revolving credit facility of £30m, of which £19.5m 
was undrawn, and also had £52.8m of cash. The facility attracts an 
interest rate of 135bps over LIBOR and expires in August 2017. The 
Directors are confident that the Group will continue to have sufficient 
liquidity and headroom and will look to refinance the facility during 2016, 
taking into account planned capital spend and shareholder returns.
Capitalemployedandbalancesheet
Non-current assets increased from £91.6m to £95.7m, primarily due to 
fixed assets additions, including software development of £5.0m and Swiss 
assets of £2.2m in relation to store expansion, offset by the depreciation 
charge, and a £0.8m increase in the investments in associates.
Current assets increased from £74.4m to £89.7m. This was due to an 
increase in cash and cash equivalents of £19.2m, offset by a reduction 
in trade receivables of £6.0m.
Current liabilities decreased from £78.3m to £71.3m due to the repayment 
of the Group’s short-term facility of £15m in early 2015, primarily offset 
by an increase in trade and other payables of £5.4m and an increase 
in provisions of £4.8m.
Total provisions increased by £4.1m to £7.3m, which comprise closure 
costs for the German operation and provisions for onerous leases.
Treasurymanagement
The Group’s main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet 
its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates and currency 
exchange rates. The treasury policy of the Group is determined and 
monitored by the Board.
The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and 
long-term cash forecasting. Surplus cash is pooled into an interest 
bearing account. The Group monitors its overall level of financial gearing 
on a regular basis to ensure that it remains well within its targets and 
banking covenants.
In addition, the Group has invested in operations outside the UK and 
also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling. 
As a result, the Group is affected by movements in exchange rates, the 
euro in particular. It is the Group’s policy to mitigate these effects by 
agreeing fixed euro rates with its suppliers, wherever possible.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 2 March 2016 
and signed on its behalf by:
DavidWild
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
2 March 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 26
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility report
FOOD
Productsourcing
We continue to look at ways of reducing food miles, where possible, 
through local sourcing whilst maintaining the best quality products. 
We are proud that all of the mozzarella we use is sourced from 
north-west Wales using milk produced on farms no further than 
a 160-mile radius of the production plant. 
During 2015, we will look for further opportunities to increase the 
sustainability credentials of the products we buy.
Objectivesfor2016
 o Further reduce the salt content of our products.
 o Seek to increase the sustainability credentials of the products we buy.
 o Engage with Government as its strategy becomes clearer.
Community values have always been 
at our heart. There is more to being a 
responsible business than our charitable 
funding, namely the quality of our food, 
the impact we have on the environment 
and how we treat our employees.
In 2013, we began to develop a corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) 
strategy by analysing our current business practices and devising a plan 
for the years to come. We have a successful business, built on a simple 
business model – deliver hot, freshly made pizza to our customers as 
quickly as is safely possible.
We have a responsibility to uphold the solid reputation our business 
has formed since we arrived in the UK in 1985. To ensure we build 
a sustainable business for the future, we have developed a responsible 
delivery plan, our CSR strategy.
As a food delivery business, the origin and 
quality of the food we supply to our customers 
is paramount. All our pizzas are freshly made 
to order, using only the best quality ingredients 
we can source.
Healthyeatingandobesity
We follow the ongoing public debate about healthy eating and obesity 
very closely. While our pizzas are intended as occasional treats and 
seen this way by many of our customers, the possibility of Government 
action or a change in society’s attitudes in relation to energy-rich foods 
such as pizza is a key risk that we face. Our response has been 
four-fold. We are entirely transparent about the calorie content of our 
products, we offer a choice of ingredients including low-fat alternatives, 
we focus on the provenance and quality of all our ingredients and we 
have maintained our long standing trend of eliminating unnecessary 
additives and preservatives.
Nutrition
We are proud to state that we have no trans-fats or artificial colourings 
or flavourings in any of our food. During 2015, we continued to work on 
the pledges we made as part of the Department of Health’s Responsibility 
Deal. As a signatory to it, we have pledged to ensure that our products 
do not contain artificial trans-fats, reduce the amount of salt in our food 
and provide clear information. 
We have continued to work closely with our suppliers to see where 
further reductions can be made to the amount of salt in our products. 
We will continue our work on this in the coming year. 
ALL OUR PIZZA ARE FRESHLY MADE TO ORDER USING ON THE BEST 
INGREDIENTS WE CAN SOURCE.
Readmoreonline
corporate.dominos.co.uk/csr Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
ENVIRONMENT
Achievementsin2015
 o Achieved certification to ISO 50001.
 o 92% of our waste was either recycled or recovered.
 o GHG emissions decrease by 23% in the past three years.
Ourcommitmenttoenergyefficiency
We are very proud to announce that, in November 2015, we achieved 
certification to the ISO 50001 energy management standard across 
our UK operations. The internationally recognised ISO 50001 standard 
requires organisations to put in place a comprehensive framework to 
monitor, manage and reduce energy consumption; this significantly 
helps us to identify opportunities to reduce our greenhouse gas 
(‘GHG’) emissions. 
As part of the framework, we have established electricity reduction targets 
for our supply chain centres and fuel reduction targets for our fleet, which 
align with our overall objective to make a 25% reduction in our relative 
emissions intensity per tonne of dough produced, by 2018. Over the 
coming years, we will be implementing a whole range of energy efficiency 
measures across our operations to drive down our energy consumption. 
Strivingforzerowastetolandfill
We continue to strive towards reaching zero waste to landfill, with over 
92% of our waste in the UK being either recycled or recovered.
Greenhousegasemissions
Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September
1
 
and the 2014/2015 GHG emissions inventory marks our third year of 
GHG emissions reporting. Our material GHG emissions from business 
activities in this period amount to 12,237 tonnes CO 2e and are set out 
in the table below: 
Intensityratio
We continue to track GHG emissions over time against our dough 
production levels and we are becoming increasingly resource efficient: our 
intensity ratio for scope 1 and 2 for this reporting year is 0.34 tCO 2e/tonne 
of dough produced (2014: 0.40 tCO
2
e/tonne) compared to our baseline 
figure of 0.45 tCO 2e/tonne of dough produced. This has decreased by 
24% putting us in a good position to meet our 25% relative reduction 
target by 2018.
Methodology
Domino’s reports on all emissions sources stipulated under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 
2013. The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with 
the requirements of the following standards: the World Resources 
Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol; Defra’s Environmental Reporting 
Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting 
guidance (June 2013); and ISO 14064 – part 1. 
We have adopted a financial control approach to define our organisational 
boundary; as a result we report GHG emissions from all four markets 
considered as part of the Group’s current financial consolidation: United 
Kingdom, ROI, Switzerland and Germany. Accountability for our overall 
environmental performance rests with our Executive Committee. 
Objectivesfor2016
 o Reduce our electricity consumption relative to tonne of dough produced 
at our Milton Keynes and Penrith Supply Chain Centres by 5% by 2017.
 o Reduce our fuel consumption relative to tonnage delivered with our 
fleet by 5% by 2018.
 o Invest in the procurement of energy efficient products and services 
where financially viable. 
Tonnes of CO
2
e 
2
Tonnes of CO
2
e TonnesofCO
2
e Percentage change 
Emissions source (baseline 2012/2013) (2013/2014) (2014/2015) (from baseline)
Scope 1: CO 2e
 
from the combustion of fuel 
and the operation of any facilities
Natural gas 802 710 646 -19%
Kerosene 99 71 41 -58%
Refrigerant 189 156 302 60%
Owned vehicles
3 
6,726 6,359 6,494 -3%
Scope 2: CO 2e from the purchase of electricity, heat, 
steam or cooling by the company for its own use
Purchased
electricity 4,500 5,064 4,754 6%
Total Total 12,316 12,360 12,237 -1%
A more detailed view of our GHG emissions including our scope 3 emissions broken down by region can be found on our website as well as scope 2 
dual reporting overview.
Notes:
1  Our financial reporting year is the calendar year; however, we have set our reporting period back by a quarter to facilitate data collection.
2  We report all material GHG emissions, using ‘tonnes of CO2-equivalent’ (tCO2e) as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are attributable to human activity, as defined 
in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008(a). The only exception is for GHG emissions from electricity in ROI, Switzerland and Germany where the GHG emissions 
are reported in CO 2.
3  Includes fuel consumed (petrol, diesel, red diesel) by our supply chain delivery fleet, our company cars and our corporate store delivery fleet.
Readmoreonline
Formoreinsightintoouroverallenvironmentalperformance,
pleaseaccesstheEnvironmentpageonourcorporatewebsite
corporate.dominos.co.uk/csr Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 28
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility report continued
EMPLOYEES
Achievementsin2015
 o Increased employee ‘Vitality’ health reviews via PruHealth by 21.1%.
 o Reintroduced head and shoulder massages at all sites.
 o Celebrated success through regular pizza lunches, staff social events 
and experience vouchers.
 o Developed an Employee Value Proposition that we will launch in 2016.
 o Launch of the Domino’s high performance programme.
In last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, we set ourselves a number 
of goals and we have taken great strides in the year under review 
towards achieving these.
Engagementandwellbeing
Our employees continue to get healthier through the PruHealth ‘Vitality’ 
scheme. Participation rates continue to rise with an increase in Vitality 
points earned in 2015 up by 12.5%. Vitality status has increased by 
116% above the Bronze status. This tool encourages and rewards 
healthy behaviour, nutrition and physical activity and provides help 
in achieving a positive work-life balance. We also continue to see 
an increased uptake of our Cycle to Work scheme. 
WE STRIVE TO PROVIDE A 
HAPPY AND SAFE ENVIRONMENT
FOR OUR EMPLOYEES.
We strive to provide a happy and safe environment for our employees 
and on an annual basis our Happiness at Work team undertakes an 
annual employee survey to understand what improvements we can 
make in our employee experience. In addition, it looks at work-life 
balance initiatives and provides opportunities for team colleagues to 
socialise through team days that encourage cross-team interaction, 
most recently with the Family Summer Barbecue and Christmas party.
Performanceanddevelopment
We have recently launched a high performance programme into the 
business with the aim of building a high performance culture where 
people can thrive and do their best. The benefits to the business will 
include the retention and attraction of high performing people, more 
high performers ready to step up into bigger roles, people leaders more 
able to coach and develop their people. During 2016, we will embed 
high performance principles across the business through the entire 
employee lifecycle.
Attractingtalentandsuccessionplanning
We will continue to develop our recruitment strategy to make 
the process rigorous but easier for managers and candidates. 
We recognise the need to maintain our strength in depth and during 
2016 we will formalise our succession planning process to enable the 
assessment of key roles, identification of key talent, and prepare, 
monitor and review development of that talent.
Objectivesfor2016
 o Continue to embed the corporate mission and high 
performance culture.
 o Build a dedicated in-house recruitment function.
 o Formalise our succession planning process in Head Office.
 o Embed our Employee Value Proposition across our store, 
Head Office and supply chain populations. 
Readmoreonline
corporate.dominos.co.uk/csr Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
COMMUNITY
Achievementsin2015
 o Raised over £811,000 for charity: 
 o over £475,000 for Teenage Cancer Trust; 
 o over £90,000 for Special Olympics Great Britain; 
 o over £11,000 for Barretstown; 
 o over £155,700 for Rays of Sunshine;
 o over £30,000 for Northern Ireland Children’s Hospice; and 
 o over £50,000 for Pennies. 
 o Boosted fundraising by strong engagement with Pennies through 
our apps.
 o The average weekly donation total grew from £10,080 in 2014 
to £14,814 in 2015.
 o Our customers have raised over £1,600,000 since introducing Pennies 
in 2010 and in 2015 alone made over 4m micro-donations.
 o Galvanised fundraising and awareness activity with our franchisees 
and team members. 
Everypennycounts
We consider our place to be at the heart of the local community, not only 
providing quality products but also contributing to the surrounding area. 
A crucial element in achieving this has been our charitable funding, 
where we support a number of charities working locally and nationally. 
We have a long-running partnership with the charity Pennies. Its digital 
charity box has enabled customers using our website and apps to 
round up their orders to the nearest pound. 2015 was by far the most 
successful year to date and, on behalf of the charities, we would like 
to pass on a big ‘thank you’ to our customers who have embraced 
Pennies in their millions. 
We are proud to have been the landmark partner for Pennies and 
have seen this trend of online donations grow considerably since 
it began in 2010. 
In Great Britain, our 2015 beneficiaries were Teenage Cancer Trust 
(82.5% of donations) and Special Olympics Great Britain (10% of donations). 
In Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Children’s Hospice received 
the full 92.5%. 
Pennies receives 7.5% of all donations as a contribution to its charitable 
objectives and to drive the movement for the benefit of the charitable 
sector as a whole. 
Following completion of the re-development of our ROI website we plan 
to implement Pennies in 2016, providing the opportunity to support the 
local charity, Barretstown. 
Oursocialimpact
Teenage Cancer Trust was appointed as our charity partner of choice in 
2015 and the money we raised over the year equates to 19,004 hours 
of expert care from a specialist nurse for a young person with cancer. 
This partnership has been embraced by our franchisees, store teams 
and support office employees, who all joined together to raise money. 
 o Young people and their families are at the heart of our business, 
so a partnership with a charity that supports this age group and their 
families through one of the most difficult times in their life made sense 
to us. We’re helping Teenage Cancer Trust to deliver life-changing 
care and support so that no young person has to face cancer alone.
 o Throughout 2015, Domino’s employees took part in various 
fundraising challenges and customer-facing activities and provided 
pizza for ‘Unit Pizza Nights’. In 2016 we are hoping to continue our 
support financially through various fundraising activities but also to 
offer work experience opportunities for those young people whose 
lives have been derailed by their cancer diagnosis.
Charityobjectivesfor2016
 o Evolve the charity programme in line with fresh business priorities. 
 o Increase overall giving, aided by the introduction of Pennies into ROI.
WE CONSIDER OUR PLACE TO BE AT THE HEART OF THE LOCAL COMMUNITY
AND SUPPORT A NUMBER OF CHARITIES 
WORKING NATIONALLY AND LOCALLY.
Readmoreonline
corporate.dominos.co.uk/csr Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 30
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
DAVID WILD COLIN HALPERN STEPHEN HEMSLEY
HELEN KEAYS EBBE JACOBSEN
R A
A
R
N
Audit Committee member
Remuneration Committee member
Nomination Committee member
Committee Chairman
KEVIN HIGGINS
R A
N
STEVE BARBER
R A
N N Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Ebbe Jacobsen
Non-executive Director
Ebbe was appointed to the Board in January 2014 
and is a member of the Nomination Committee. 
He has wide experience of operating in Germany 
and other European countries, most recently 
with Delsey. He has been in retail all his working 
life and has pan-EU retail knowledge with 
significant experience in franchising, multi-site 
and single brand retail. He pioneered the 
introduction of US fast food chain Burger King 
into the Nordic countries in the 1970s and 
held the position of director and operating 
partner when the franchise was sold in 1985. 
Other significant retail experience includes 
having been CEO of IKEA in Germany, CEO 
of Delsey and CEO of Habitat. 
Steve Barber
Non-executive Director
Steve was appointed to the Board as a 
non-executive Director in July 2015. He is the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. He is currently 
a non-executive director of Next plc, where he 
also chairs the audit committee. He has almost 
30 years’ experience in accountancy, principally 
with PriceWaterhouseCoopers where he was 
a senior partner and also with Ernst & Young. 
He has also worked in industry, and was formerly 
the chief operating officer of Whitehead Mann 
and also the finance director of Mirror Group. 
He is also founder of The Objectivity Partnership, 
a member of the steering group of the Audit 
Quality Forum and Chairman of Design 
Objectives Worldwide.
Kevin Higgins
Non-executive Director
Kevin was appointed to the Board in 
September 2014. He is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of 
the Audit Committee. His career spans more 
than 20 years in branded consumer foods in 
both Europe and the United States. Kevin is 
non-executive chairman of Lunch Garden, a 
Belgian restaurant chain and has previously 
served as president of Burger King Europe, 
Middle East and Africa. Prior to his role with 
Burger King, Kevin served as general manager 
of Yum! Brands (Pizza Hut, KFC and Taco 
Bell) Europe and Russia Franchise Business 
Unit based in Switzerland. Earlier in his career 
he held executive roles with PepsiCo and Mars.
Stephen Hemsley
Non-executive Chairman
Stephen joined the Board as Finance Director 
in 1998, was appointed as Chief Executive in 
2001, as Executive Chairman in 2008 and 
finally became non-executive Chairman in 
March 2010. He also chairs the Nomination 
Committee. Stephen is also chairman of 
Franchise Brands Worldwide Limited and 
its subsidiary companies. He is a chartered 
accountant by profession.
Colin Halpern
Non-executive Vice-Chairman
Colin acquired the Domino’s Pizza Master 
Franchise Agreement for the UK and ROI in 1993 
through International Franchise Systems Inc. 
In 1999, with Colin as Chairman, the Company 
was taken public and listed on AIM and 
subsequently moved to the Main Market 
in 2008. Colin is the managing director 
of HS Real Company LLC, Dayenn Limited 
and non-executive director of several 
other companies.
David Wild
Chief Executive Officer
David was appointed to the Board as a 
non-executive Director in November 2013, 
became Interim Chief Executive Officer in 
January 2014 and was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer on 30 April 2014. David is 
a non-executive director of the multi-channel 
consultancy Practicology and also Bankers’ 
Investment Trust. Previously, David was chief 
executive officer of Halfords Group plc and 
held senior roles within Walmart Stores Inc., 
Tesco Stores plc and RHM Foods Limited.
Helen Keays
Non-executive Director
Helen was appointed to the Board in 
September 2011 and is a member of the 
Company’s Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. Helen has over 20 years’ experience 
in travel, retail, consumer markets and telecoms. 
She is currently a non-executive director 
of Communisis plc and a trustee of the 
Shakespeare Birthplace Trust and has held a 
number of other non-executive directorships, 
including most recently at Majestic Wine. The 
majority of her executive career was spent at 
GE Capital and Vodafone, where she held 
various senior marketing roles. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 32
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
I am very pleased to introduce this section of 
the Annual Report. Corporate governance is a 
vital subject as it is the Board that directs and 
controls the Company, creating a framework 
within which the executive leadership team 
can conduct their day-to-day operational 
management of the business.
It is vital that the Board strikes the right balance 
between entrepreneurial leadership and the 
prudent and effective management of risk. 
Both are equally essential if we are to create 
and preserve value for shareholders. This report 
explains how we have sought to strike that 
balance during 2015, a year in which we not 
only delivered record results for shareholders 
but also made some strides in developing 
our governance framework.
Stephen Hemsley 
Non-executive Chairman 
2 March 2016
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Domino’s Pizza Group plc (‘the Company’) is incorporated 
and has a premium listing in the UK. As a result, it is required to 
report on its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’) or explain why it has chosen not to comply. For the year 
ended 27 December 2015, it was subject to the edition of the Code 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, 
which is available from www.frc.org.uk. 
The Code contains 18 main principles, which are expanded on in 
supporting principles and detailed provisions. Together, these set out 
the key components of effective board practice, and we explain in this 
report how we have applied these during the year. Where appropriate, 
some explanations are contained in the Nomination Committee report, 
the Audit Committee report, the Directors’ remuneration report and 
the Directors’ report.
There are three Code provisions with which the Company has not 
complied fully throughout the year ended 27 December 2015:
A.4.1 The Board should appoint one of the independent 
non-executive directors to be the senior 
independent director.
Since the retirement of Michael Shallow on 31 July 2015, 
there has been no senior independent director formally 
appointed. In the light of other changes to the directorate 
in the year, the Board wishes to see how relationships and 
dynamics develop before making this important appointment. 
It is intended to nominate one of the independent Non-executive 
Directors as the SID in the first half of 2016.
B.2.1 A majority of members of the nomination committee 
should be independent non-executive directors.
From the start of the year to 31 July 2015 there were two 
members, one of whom was an independent non-executive 
Director. From 1 August 2015 to 15 September 2015 there 
was only one member, the Chairman of the Board. 
On 16 September 2015, the first Board meeting following 
Michael Shallow’s retirement, two independent non-executive 
Directors were appointed as members and the Nomination 
Committee composition became Code-compliant.
D.2.1 The Board should establish a remuneration committee 
of at least three independent non-executive directors.
From 1 August 2015 to 15 September 2015 there were 
only two members, both of whom were independent 
non-executive Directors. On 16 September 2015, the first 
Board meeting following Michael Shallow’s retirement, a 
further independent non-executive Director was appointed 
as a member and the Remuneration Committee composition 
became Code-compliant.
The Board does not believe that this non-compliance created or creates 
risk for shareholders. The actual practices it follows are fully consistent 
with the principles espoused in the Code and do not hinder either good 
governance or the achievement of business objectives. Two of the 
non-compliance issues related to a relatively short period of time and, 
as noted above, the Board intends to resolve the one remaining 
non-compliance issue in the current financial year.
STEPHEN HEMSLEY
CHAIRMAN Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Leadership – our governance framework
The Company is led by the Board, whose members are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company. Day-to-day management 
of the business is delegated to management, led by the Chief Executive Officer. The role of the Board can be summarised as follows:
Within the delegation framework described above, the Board retains 
certain key decision-making responsibilities:
 o setting and approving overall Group strategy; 
 o setting a risk appetite, within which management is required to operate; 
 o reviewing and approving business plans and budgets;
 o reviewing and approving major business decisions;
 o reviewing major risks and the implementation of mitigation strategies;
 o reviewing the functioning of the internal control environment;
 o monitoring operational and trading results against previously 
approved plans;
 o reviewing and approving significant contractual and other 
commitments, including capital expenditure;
 o reviewing corporate governance arrangements;
 o reviewing succession plans for Board, Executive Director and senior 
management positions; and
 o exercising its control by an annual review of ‘matters reserved’ 
for the Board’s decision.
As noted above, the Board is responsible for determining the nature and 
extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. It also retains oversight of the risk management and internal 
control systems with the aim that these are sound and protect 
shareholders’ interests.
Decide on the short-term goals
 o Review and approve strategy, providing constructive 
challenge as necessary
 o Ensure the necessary financial and human resources 
are in place
 o Agree business plans and budgets
 o Review the risk management process and internal 
control environment
Decide on the longer-term aims
 o Agree the Company’s business model
 o Agree an appetite for risk
 o Set values and standards for the Company
 o Provide entrepreneurial leadership
 o Appoint the CEO
Monitor and manage performance
 o Monitor management’s performance in delivering the strategy, 
and challenge or support as necessary
 o Approve major expenditure and other commitments
 o Monitor the risk environment in which the Company operates 
and review internal controls
 o Determine the remuneration of Executive Directors and management
 o Oversee the governance of the Company and Group, to ensure 
shareholders’ interests are protected
Report to, and engage with, shareholders
 o Monitor the integrity of financial information and the reporting 
of performance generally
 o Report to shareholders on business performance
 o Ensure other external obligations are met, including reporting 
to other stakeholders
 o Understand shareholders’ views and act as necessary
The Board is supported in its work by three committees:
Terms of reference for these committees, which are regularly reviewed 
by the Board, are available on the Company’s investor relations website 
(corporate.dominos.co.uk) as is the formal schedule of matters reserved 
for the Board’s decision.
THE BOARD
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 34
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance continued
Leadership – our governance framework continued
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
for the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the internal control 
environment and risk management systems, managing the relationship 
with the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness and 
objectivity of the external and internal auditors. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee oversees the recruitment of the Directors 
and senior management and advises on matters relating to the Board’s 
membership and Committee appointments, including reviewing succession 
plans. The Nomination Committee also regularly reviews and monitors 
the overall skills and experience of the Board. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions 
of employment, remuneration and rewards of the Executive Directors, 
the Chairman and the leadership teams. The Remuneration Committee 
aims to offer an appropriate balance of fixed and performance-related, 
immediate and deferred remuneration, but without overpaying or 
creating the risk of rewards for failure. 
Board composition
The Board’s preferred structure is to be led by a non-executive Chairman, 
have high calibre Executive Directors to drive the performance of the 
business under the leadership of a Chief Executive Officer, and a number 
of non-executive Directors drawn from a range of backgrounds, whose 
role is to provide constructive challenge. Our aim is that the independent 
non-executive Directors always constitute at least half of the Board. This 
structure and the integrity of the individual Directors should ensure that 
no single individual or group dominates the decision-making process. 
There is a common purpose of promoting the overall success of the Group 
with a unified vision of the definition of success, the core strategic 
principles, and the understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms (subject 
to annual re-election by shareholders) and the offer of any further term 
of appointment after year six would be weighed carefully by the Nomination 
Committee, which keeps the need for progressive refreshing of the 
Board (particularly to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and 
experience) and orderly succession to key appointments under 
continual review.
Independence
The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive Directors 
annually. In assessing the independence of each Director, the Board 
considers whether each is independent in character and judgement 
and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely 
to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgement.
Board roles and responsibilities 
There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive Officer, which is recorded in a document approved by 
the Board in September 2015 and summarised below. In essence, the 
Chairman manages the Board and the CEO manages the business. 
Importantly, no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer at least once a 
month, including visits to pizza stores, and they are in contact between 
these occasions as required. The Chairman also has separate discussions 
with the non-executive Directors.
Chairman
The role of the Chairman is:
 o providing leadership to and ensuring the effectiveness of the Board;
 o ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, 
issues and that the Directors receive accurate and clear information 
well ahead of the time when a decision is required;
 o promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate, and 
facilitating an effective contribution by the non-executive Directors;
 o arranging informal meetings of the Directors, including meetings 
of the non-executive Directors;
 o ensuring effective communication by the Group with its shareholders;
 o arranging for the Chairs of the Committees to be available to answer 
questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend; and
 o taking the lead in providing a properly constructed, full, formal and tailored 
induction programme and ongoing development for new Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is:
 o leading the development of the Group’s strategic direction 
and objectives;
 o identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading 
geographic diversification initiatives;
 o reviewing the Group’s organisational structure and recommending 
changes as appropriate;
 o identifying and executing new business opportunities;
 o overseeing risk management and internal control;
 o managing the Group’s risk profile, including the health and safety 
performance of the Group;
 o implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees;
 o building and maintaining effective an Group leadership team; and 
 o ensuring the Chairman and the Board are alerted to forthcoming 
complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the Group. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Senior Independent Director
The SID focuses on:
 o meeting regularly with the independent non-executive Directors;
 o providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting 
as an intermediary for other Directors;
 o being available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer 
has failed to address or would be inappropriate; and
 o holding annual meetings with non-executive Directors without 
the Chairman present.
Non-executive Director
The role of a non-executive Director is:
 o providing creative contribution to the Board by way 
of constructive criticism;
 o bringing independence, impartiality, experience, specialist 
knowledge and a different perspective to the Board;
 o providing guidance on matters of concern and strategy;
 o overseeing risk management and internal control;
 o protecting shareholder and stakeholder interests;
 o constructively challenging the Executive Directors and monitoring 
Executive performance;
 o supporting the Executive team in shaping and delivering the strategic 
goals of the business;
 o optimising shareholder return and protection of shareholder assets; and
 o ensuring the Board is able to work together effectively and make 
maximum use of its time.
Diversity
The Board’s policy on diversity is explained in the Nomination 
Committee report on page 38.
Leadership in action
This section of the corporate governance report explains how the Board 
has fulfilled its duties and obligations during the year under review.
Board membership 
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the CEO, 
a non-executive Vice-Chairman and four independent non-executive 
Directors. It is intended to recruit a Chief Financial Officer in the near 
future. The names and biographical details of the serving Directors, 
and the offices held by them, can be found on page 31. 
In addition, Sean Wilkins served as a Director and Chief Financial Officer 
from the start of the year until 20 January 2015, Michael Shallow served 
as an independent non-executive Director from the start of the year until 
31 July 2015 and Paul Doughty served as a Director and Chief Financial 
Officer from 8 June 2015 to the end of the year under review, but 
resigned from the Board with effect from 31 December 2015.
We believe that the Board is of sufficient size that the requirements of 
the business and good governance can be met and normal succession 
challenges managed, but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The current non-executive Directors’ tenure reflects our approach 
of progressively refreshing the Board:
1  Stephen Hemsley was appointed as non-executive Chairman in March 2010. 
However, he was first appointed to an Executive Director role in 1998 and as a 
Director of the Company on incorporation in 1999. Full details of Stephen’s history 
with the Company can be found in the Directors’ biographies on page 31.
2  Colin Halpern acquired the Domino’s Pizza master franchise for the UK and 
Ireland in 1993 and has held a variety of senior executive roles within the Group. 
He became a non-executive Director in December 2007. Full details of Colin’s 
history with the Company can be found in the Directors’ biographies on page 31.
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS
Accounting 2
Retail management  4
Marketing  1
29 +57+14+z PRIMARY EXPERIENCE
Consumer retail 3
Food retail  3
Professional services 1
43 +43+14+z GENDER BALANCE
Male 6
Female 1
86 +14+z Board composition
The seven continuing members of the Board on 27 December 2015 
were drawn from a range of backgrounds, and gained their experience 
in a range of relevant industry sectors:
Steve 
Barber
1
Kevin 
Higgins
Ebbe 
Jacobsen
2 2
Helen 
Keays
4
Stephen 
Hemsley
1
6
Colin 
Halpern
2
8
CURRENT YEAR OF NON-EXECUTIVE 
TENURE, AT 27 DECEMBER 2015 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance continued
Leadership in action continued
Independence
The Board has considered the independence of the current non-executive 
Directors, other than the Chairman. It does not believe that Colin Halpern is 
independent in view of his long service with the Company (including his 
former executive responsibilities) and the contractual relationship with 
the Group in which he is involved. Shortly before he retired from the Board, 
Michael Shallow reached the ninth anniversary of his appointment as a 
non-executive Director. The Board reviewed his character and judgement 
and concluded that it was appropriate to continue to regard him as 
being independent.
Board balance
The Board composition creates a majority of independent non-executive 
Directors, with the current position being:
Board committees
Membership of the three Board committees during the year ended 
27 December 2015 was as follows:
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Committee Committee Committee
Stephen Hemsley Chairman
Colin Halpern
David Wild
Paul Doughty
Kevin Higgins Member Chairman
Steve Barber Member/
Chairman 
1
Member 
2
Ebbe Jacobsen Member 
2
Helen Keays Member Member 
2
Member
Michael Shallow
3
Chairman Member Member
Notes:
1 Member from 1 July 2015 and Chairman from 1 August 2015.
2 Member from 16 September 2015.
3 All offices held to 31 July 2015, when he retired from the Board.
Senior Independent Director
Michael Shallow was the Senior Independent Director until his 
retirement from the Board on 31 July 2015. Since that date no Director 
has been formally appointed as SID, as noted on page 32.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings
The Board is scheduled to meet seven times in each year. Additional 
meetings are arranged as necessary which do not necessarily require 
the full participation of all directors. Committees meet as necessary to 
discharge their duties. Attendance of individual Directors at meetings 
of the Board (including additional meetings) and its committees during 
the year ended 27 December 2015 was as follows:
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Stephen Hemsley 9 of 9 1 of 1
Colin Halpern 9 of 9
David Wild 9 of 9
Paul Doughty 5 of 6
Kevin Higgins 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4
Steve Barber 4 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 1
Ebbe Jacobsen 9 of 9 1 of 1
Helen Keays 9 of 9 2 of 3 1 of 1 4 of 4
Michael Shallow 5 of 6 2 of 2 3 of 3
Each non-executive Director has committed to the Company that they 
are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively. Any additional appointments they are 
contemplating taking on are discussed with the Chairman in advance, 
including the likely time commitment and whether these could in any 
way constitute a conflict of interest. These matters are formally reviewed 
by the Board on an annual basis.
Meetings of non-executive Directors
The non-executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet without 
the Executive Directors being present. In addition, the independent 
non-executive Directors, led by the SID, meet during the year as 
needed including to review the performance of the Chairman. 
Board effectiveness
We believe that there are five key steps in creating an effective Board:
1. Recruit the right people
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new Directors to the Board, overseen by the Nomination Committee. 
For each appointment, we develop an objective brief summarising the role 
and the skills and experience required and use an appropriate head-hunting 
firm with proven expertise in the relevant field. As noted above, we take 
care to ensure that we recruit on merit, from the widest possible range of 
backgrounds, recognising the benefits of diversity, and the search firms we 
use are signatories to the Code of Conduct for executive search firms. 
Before confirming an appointment, we check whether the preferred 
individual can commit to the time expected including, in the case of 
an appointment to the Chairmanship, the need to be available in the event 
of a crisis.
2. Make sure Directors have the right tools 
All Directors go through a tailored, formal induction process on 
joining the Board, including the opportunity to meet major shareholders. 
The aim of this is to ensure that they understand the Company and its 
business model, our strategy, the drivers of value in the business and 
the key risks we face, and that they understand the legal and regulatory 
environment in which we operate and their own personal obligations. 
Directors are expected to update and refresh their skills and knowledge 
on an ongoing basis, and to continue to build their familiarity with the 
Company and its business throughout their tenure. The Company will 
provide the necessary resources for developing and updating its 
Directors’ knowledge and capabilities, including access to our 
operations, staff and franchisees.
BOARD BALANCE
Non-independent Directors 2 
David Wild 
Colin Halpern
Chairman  1 
Stephen Hemsley
Independent 
non-executive Directors 4 
Steve Barber 
Kevin Higgins 
Ebbe Jacobsen 
Helen Keays
28 +14+58+z Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, and 
the opportunity to seek independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities 
as Directors or as members of Board Committees. If Directors have 
concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the Company 
or a proposed action, they can require that their concerns are recorded 
in the Board minutes, or provide a written statement to the Chairman, 
for circulation to the Board.
The Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality 
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties effectively. This is 
provided in good time ahead of all meetings and decisions, and 
non-executive Directors are encouraged to seek clarification from 
management whenever they feel appropriate.
3. Identify and manage any conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts 
of interest. However, the Company’s Articles of Association allow the 
Board to ‘authorise’ conflicts, where felt appropriate. Any Director who 
becomes aware that he or she is in a situation which does or could 
create a conflict of interest, or has an interest in an existing or proposed 
transaction in which the Company also has an interest, is required to 
notify the Board in writing as soon as possible. The interests of new 
Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised 
(if appropriate) by the Board at the time of their appointment.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance 
in relation to the Company’s business at any time during the year 
or to the date of this report.
Executive Directors are permitted, and where felt appropriate even 
encouraged, to hold non-executive directorships outside the Group. 
However, the Board would not agree to a full time Executive Director 
taking on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 
company nor the chairmanship of such a company. 
4. Formally check on effectiveness
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of 
its own performance in each year. It also reviews the performance 
of the Board committees and the Nomination Committee reviews the 
performance of individual Directors. Board and Committee evaluation 
considers the balance of skills, experience (including familiarity with the 
Company and its business) and independence of the Group taken as a 
whole, and also the diversity, including gender, of the Directors. The 
process also examines how the Directors work together as a unit, and 
explores other factors relevant to effectiveness. The Chairman acts 
on the results of the performance evaluations as necessary including, 
where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the 
Board or seeking the resignation of Directors.
Individual evaluation aims to determine whether each Director continues 
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role 
(including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings 
and any other duties).
An in-house process was run for the 2015 year, with structured 
questionnaires circulated to each Director and the responses analysed 
by the Company Secretary. The results were discussed with the Chairman 
and, subsequently, the Board. These identified a need for the independent 
non-executive Directors to develop further in-depth understanding of the 
Group’s business through a structured programme of visits and briefings, 
for the Board to define its remit and delegation of authorities more 
tightly and for meeting agendas to then focus on matters falling within 
the Board’s agreed mandate. Taken together, this will provide a greater 
opportunity for the independent non-executive Directors to influence 
the Group’s development.
Reviews were also undertaken of the effectiveness of the Board 
committees, of each non-executive Director and of the Chairman’s 
performance in that role. There were no material issues arising 
from any of those reviews.
The Board last used an external facilitator for its 2013 review. It is 
intended to retain an independent external party for the review to be 
undertaken in 2016 and a selection process will commence shortly.
5. Ask shareholders to confirm appointments
Ultimately, the Directors’ main responsibility is to promote the long-term 
success of the Company, acting in shareholders’ best interests. All of 
our Directors submit themselves for re-election at each AGM, and we 
provide shareholders with sufficient information in the meeting papers 
for them to decide whether their commitment and performance warrants 
a further year in office. At the 2015, AGM each serving Director was 
re-elected, with votes in favour exceeding 96% of those cast in all cases.
Accountability to shareholders
The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for 
considering how they apply the principles of sound corporate reporting, 
risk management and internal control and how the Company and Board 
maintains an appropriate relationship with the company’s auditors. 
These responsibilities are overseen by the Audit Committee and are 
explained in its report from page 39 onwards.
The Board considers that the 2015 annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy. Details of 
how we do this are also explained in the Audit Committee’s report.
Remuneration
There are formal and transparent procedures for developing policy 
on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of 
individual Directors, which are overseen by the Remuneration Committee 
and are explained in its report from page 41 onwards. This report explains 
how Executive Directors’ remuneration is designed to promote the long-term 
success of the Company and shows how the performance-related elements 
are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Relations with shareholders
We maintain a dialogue with shareholders throughout the year, 
which we intend to be based on a mutual understanding of objectives. 
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
and the Company Secretary all variously and routinely engage with 
analysts, institutional and retail shareholders and potential investors. 
Our aim is to ensure that there are strong relationships, through which 
we can understand those parties’ views on material issues. Feedback is 
provided to the Board, particularly where there are issues or concerns 
and the Company’s broker also provides independent feedback from 
investors. All brokers’ notes are circulated to the entire Board in order 
that the Board maintains an understanding of market perceptions of the 
Company. In addition, the Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Company Secretary meet with major shareholders, 
principally relating to remuneration and governance issues. The other 
non-executive Directors are available for meetings with shareholders 
on request to the Company Secretary.
The AGM is treated as an opportunity to communicate with all of 
our shareholders, and their participation is encouraged. The Chairs 
of all Board Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer 
questions. An explanatory circular containing the notice of meeting is 
sent to shareholders at least 20 working days beforehand, with separate 
votes being offered on each substantive issue. All proxy votes received 
are counted with the balance for and against and any votes withheld 
announced at the meeting and published on the Company’s investor 
relations website after the meeting. This website, corporate.dominos.co.uk 
also contains a host of up-to-date information on the Group. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 38
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Nomination Committee report
 o to undertake formal performance evaluation of non-executive 
Directors who are standing for re-election and to ascertain whether 
the individual’s performance continues to be effective and they 
demonstrate sufficient commitment to the role.
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were reviewed 
by the Board in 2015, when it was concluded that they remained fit for 
purpose. These terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
investor relations website.
Chairman’s overview
The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that 
the Company has the right leadership, both on the Board and in the 
ranks of senior management. This is a combination of continual review 
and monitoring, and also responding to specific situations as needed.
Activities in 2015
Although the Nomination Committee met formally only once during the 
year, there have been four issues, including three important recruitment 
exercises, overseen by the Committee’s members, and in particular 
its Chairman: 
 o the review of the performance of all the non-executive Directors 
seeking re-election at the 2015 AGM; 
 o the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer. A brief was developed 
and the Nomination Committee retained Russell Reynolds, an 
executive search firm with no other connections to the Company, 
to manage the selection process. This resulted in the appointment 
of Paul Doughty to the Board on 8 June 2015; 
 o the recruitment of a new independent non-executive Director, with 
the specific requirement that he or she should have the relevant and 
recent financial experience necessary to chair the Audit Committee. 
A fuller brief was developed and the Committee retained Hanson 
Green, an executive search firm with no other connections to the 
Company, to manage the selection process. This resulted in the 
appointment of Steve Barber to the Board on 1 July 2015; and
 o following the resignation of Paul Doughty, developing a further brief 
for the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer (including implementing 
the points learned from that experience) and instructing Russell Reynolds 
to undertake a further search, which remains ongoing.
Policy on diversity
It is important that the Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable 
them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. 
They play a key governance role in protecting shareholders’ interests by 
ensuring that the Board and management are challenged, constructively 
and effectively, and it is important that they do so from a range of perspectives.
An important factor in achieving this effectiveness is drawing members 
from a range of backgrounds, which has been shown to help avoid 
‘group-think’. We are proud of the diversity in our business and we 
recruit and develop people regardless of their gender, race or any other 
characteristic. We are of the view that it is in the interests of the Company 
to recruit and develop the very best people, drawn from the widest pool 
of talent. The policy of the Board on recruitment is always to seek to 
appoint the best candidate to each role. However, the Board seeks to 
achieve an appropriate balance of male and female members. 
STEPHEN HEMSLEY
NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
MEMBERS
 o Stephen Hemsley (Chair); 
 o Michael Shallow (to 31 July 2015); 
 o Ebbe Jacobsen (appointed on 16 September 2015); and
 o Helen Keays (appointed on 16 September 2015).
The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary 
of the Nomination Committee and the Chief Executive is expected 
to attend whenever necessary.
The majority of members of the Nomination Committee are currently 
independent non-executive Directors. As noted on page 32, from the 
start of the year to 31 July 2015 there were two members, one of whom 
was an independent non-executive Director and from 1 August to 
15 September 2015 there was only one member, the Chairman of the Board.
While the Chairman of the Board chairs the Nomination Committee 
in normal circumstances, he would stand down in matters relating 
to the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship. 
The number of meetings held in the year and attendance at those 
meetings is shown on page 36.
Purpose
The Nomination Committee has four principal duties:
 o to ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments 
to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the 
Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board;
 o to lead the process for Board and committee appointments and make 
recommendations to the Board; 
 o where an external recruitment is required, to evaluate the balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and, 
in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment. The Nomination 
Committee would then oversee the selection process with the aim of 
ensuring that this results in an appointment made on merit, against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity 
on the Board, including gender; and Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Report of the Audit Committee
MEMBERS
 o Steve Barber (Chairman); 
 o Kevin Higgins; and
 o Helen Keays.
In addition to the members listed above, Michael Shallow served as 
Committee Chairman from the start of the year until he retired from 
the Board on 31 July 2015. Steve Barber joined the Audit Committee 
on 1 July and became its Chairman on 1 August 2015.
Michael Shallow and Steve Barber are both chartered accountants 
with considerable experience and the Board has determined they both 
possess recent and relevant financial experience which qualifies them 
to chair the Audit Committee. Both Kevin Higgins and Helen Keays have 
considerable business experience which enables them to make a 
positive contribution to the Audit Committee.
Meetings of the Audit Committee have been attended by the Chairman 
of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
the external auditor, the Company Secretary (as Secretary to the Audit 
Committee) and other Directors and members of management by 
invitation. The number of meetings held in the year and attendance 
at those meetings in shown on page 36.
The Audit Committee has direct access to members of management 
and the internal and external auditors. It is able to seek further 
professional advice at the Company’s cost if appropriate.
Significant accounting issues
The Audit Committee’s reviews of the half and full year financial 
statements focused on the following areas of significance:
 o the accounting for the German business and the formation of the 
German joint venture – the financial statements show a loss of £9.6m 
in respect of Germany as a discontinued business. This comprises 
trading losses of £3.3m and £6.3m in respect of exit costs in respect 
of the changes resulting from the cessation of direct operations in 
Germany, including tax provisions of £0.9m. In accordance with 
accounting standards, a credit to the profit and loss account will 
be recognised in the 2016 financial year in respect of the fair value 
of the consideration receivable from our joint venture partner;
 o consideration of the need to provide for a potentially significant 
employment tax liability that could arise from historic employee 
share schemes (see note 1 to the accounts) – certain of the Group’s 
historic share-based remuneration arrangements have received 
protective assessments from HMRC in prior years in relation to the 
employment tax treatment. The Group has received professional 
advice confirming that no provision is considered necessary 
and therefore, no provision has been made;
 o the appropriateness of assumptions in respect of accounting 
judgements – this covered provisions for onerous leases, provisions 
against inventories, depreciation of fixed assets and the recoverability 
of receivables. The Audit Committee, following confirmations from 
management and the external auditor, satisfied itself as to the 
reasonableness and consistency of these assumptions;
 o the carrying value of fixed assets (including intangibles) in respect 
of the Group’s Swiss business - based on management’s forecasts, 
no provision was considered necessary; and
 o the Audit Committee is aware that the International Accounting 
Standards Board has issued a new standard for accounting for leases 
which will become effective for the year ending December 2019. 
Although this standard will have no cash flow impact and minimal 
profit impact, it will significantly change the composition of the 
consolidated balance sheet by bringing some £250m of previously 
unrecognised ‘right to use’ assets and corresponding lease obligations 
on to the balance sheet. 
These issues were addressed at the planning stage of the external audit 
and there were no significant differences between management’s and 
the external auditor’s conclusions.
Presentations from management and professional advisers
The Audit Committee received a number of presentations from 
management and professional advisers, including:
 o IT and cyber security – the Group’s system sales are highly 
dependent on its e-commerce IT systems, particularly apps for 
mobile devices. Although there can be no guarantee as to the 
resilience of the Group’s systems to outside attack, the Audit 
Committee was assured as to the structure of the systems 
to minimise such impact;
 o internal audit, risks and controls – in view of the Group’s rapid 
growth over the past few years, it does not have a formalised internal 
audit function but has outsourced certain assurance activities to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’). PwC were also engaged to ensure 
that the Group complied with the new requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code in relation to internal controls and risk 
management. The results of their work highlighted that the Group’s 
internal control environment was informal and often undocumented. 
PwC were therefore engaged to improve documentation, working 
in collaboration with management. Their work was completed by the 
year-end and remedial action taken, but the documentation was not in 
place throughout the year. The Audit Committee is not aware of any 
fundamental weaknesses that would have jeopardised the Group and 
improved procedures are now in place to monitor risks and controls;
STEVE BARBER
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 40
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Presentations from management and professional advisers 
continued
 o Enterprise Resource Planning (‘ERP’) system – in order to accommodate 
the growth of the business, management is implementing a new ERP 
system during 2016. This will entail a complete review of each of the 
Group’s processes but should achieve improved controls and efficiencies, 
although there are inherent risks in such a transformation. Third-party 
consultants have been engaged to assist in the process; and
 o taxation – the Group has engaged FTI to assist in the management 
of its tax affairs and they reported on progress in improving the speed 
and accuracy of the Group’s taxation returns. 
Internal audit
As mentioned above, the Group does not have a formal internal audit 
department and has outsourced certain services to PwC. This is a 
reflection of the small number of Group personnel and the rapid growth 
of the Group in recent years. However, the Group’s operational auditors 
regularly audit franchisees to support compliance with franchise 
agreements and brand standards.
Going concern and viability statement
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s 
projected cash flows, facilities and covenants as well as reviewing the 
assumptions underlying the viability statement and concluded that it 
could recommend to the Board that there are robust reasons for it 
to be able to make the relevant statements. 
External auditor
The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’), 
and considers that EY continues to possess the skills and experience 
required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently. The Audit Committee’s 
review of the effectiveness of EY as the external auditor is based on 
discussions with the senior finance team, the robustness of the audit, 
the quality of reporting to the Audit Committee and reports published 
by the FRC.
EY has confirmed that in its professional judgement it is independent 
within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the 
objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired. 
The Audit Committee has held meetings with the external auditor 
without management and there is regular dialogue with the audit partner.
EY has been the Group’s auditor since 1997 and no competitive tender 
has been conducted during that time. The lead audit partner is rotated 
every five years, with the last change being after the 2013 audit. The 
Audit Committee has not deemed it necessary to hold a competitive 
tender this year but, in compliance with the CMA Statutory Audit 
Services Order, the Group will put the audit out for tender in the 2017 
financial year so as to at least coincide with the rotation of the current 
audit partner. The Audit Committee believes that this is appropriate 
given recent and continuing Board changes. Accordingly, the Audit 
Committee has recommended the reappointment of EY as external 
auditor to the Board, which has agreed to recommend this at the 2016 AGM.
The Audit Committee agrees the fees for the external auditor and 
has strict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor which can be found on the Company’s website. These 
include specific pre-approvals for proposed work and fees, a prohibition 
on certain services and a restriction on total non-audit fees exceeding the 
total audit and audit-related services, except in exceptional circumstances.
During the year, the level of non-audit fees payable to EY for 2015 
increased significantly, as set out below.
£000
Total estimated audit and audit-related fees 306
Non-audit fees:
Corporate restructuring 60
Market survey 175
Due diligence for German joint venture 35
Total non-audit services 270
The market survey was performed by a newly acquired affiliate of EY who 
were best placed to perform that work. This affiliate, prior to its acquisition 
by EY, had performed similar work for Domino’s Pizza International in the 
US and commissioning of the survey was a natural development 
of previous work.
The Audit Committee believes that the non-audit fees were appropriate 
in the circumstances, particularly as EY has considerable knowledge of 
the Group’s business. In view of the new EU regulations and the Group’s 
own policies, the Audit Committee intends that non-audit fees, which 
have averaged less than half of audit fees over the past three years, 
should not reach similarly high levels in future years.
Fair, balanced and understandable reporting
The Audit Committee has provided advice to the Board on whether 
the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy. Each Director was also asked to provide this confirmation. 
When doing so, both the Committee and the individual directors were 
provided with a set of questions designed to test the quality of reporting, 
and asked to satisfy themselves that the levels of disclosure were appropriate.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee were reviewed by the 
Board during the year, which concluded that they remain fit for purpose. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CHAIRMAN’S SUMMARY STATEMENT
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 27 December 2015. In this report, we review the 
Group’s performance in the year and explain the pay which resulted for the 
Executive Directors, explain the fees we paid to the non-executive Directors 
and also set out our proposals for 2016 and beyond.
Performance and remuneration for 2015
As described in the Strategic Report, 2015 was a highly successful 
year for Domino’s. The Group achieved significant profit growth, driven 
by sustained double-digit like-for-like sales performance and supported 
by the opening of a record number of new stores. Our digital business 
continues to go from strength to strength and franchisee profitability has 
strengthened further. As the year concluded, we announced the formation 
of a strategic joint venture in Germany, which is now the market leading 
pizza delivery business in that country. Continued progress was also 
made in driving the Swiss business towards profitability, and we entered 
the 2016 financial year with good momentum in all of our markets.
Reflecting this strong performance, the PBT element of the CEO’s 
annual bonus (being 70% of the total) was met in full and the Remuneration 
Committee assessed that he had met the majority of the personal 
performance objectives (being the balancing 30% of his bonus) so that 
overall he achieves a payment of 87.5% of the maximum. This will result 
in a bonus of £669,375 becoming payable to David Wild, to be settled 2/3 
in cash and 1/3 in shares, the latter element being deferred for two years. 
As he was only appointed in early 2014, none of his LTIP awards are yet 
due to vest - his first LTIP award will be capable of vesting in May 2017, 
based on performance up to the end of the 2016 financial year. 
Directors’ remuneration report
KEVIN HIGGINS
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration outcomes for David for 
the 2015 financial year are fully justified, in the light of the business and 
individual performance during the year and were in the best interests 
of the Company and shareholders.
During the year, two other individuals served as Executive Directors, 
each for a relatively small proportion of the year. Neither was entitled 
to any performance-related pay in respect of their period of service. 
Sean Wilkins stepped down with effect from 20 January 2015, and his 
termination payments were set out in last year’s report. Paul Doughty 
held office for approximately seven months but, because of his resignation, 
was not eligible for a bonus payment. He had not been granted any 
long-term incentive awards during his tenure, and received no payments 
on termination. 
Remuneration policy for 2016 
Since our remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in 2014, 
the Company has made significant progress under David Wild’s leadership 
as evidenced by the strong earnings growth and shareholder returns 
we have delivered. 
Against this background of excellent corporate performance and 
strong strategic development, the Committee carried out a review of our 
remuneration policy. While keeping the remuneration principles which 
have served the Company well over recent years, we want to create a closer 
and sharper alignment between strategic delivery, shareholder returns and 
executive reward over the next five-year period. Following a comprehensive 
consultation with leading shareholders and their representative bodies, 
we are proposing to introduce a new remuneration policy for approval at 
the 2016 AGM. The new remuneration structure continues to keep fixed 
pay at relatively low levels but places a higher weighting on long-term 
performance, subject to achieving stretching performance targets. 
The remuneration philosophy and KPIs underpinning the review remain 
unchanged and are as follows:
 o fixed pay should be at or below comparable median benchmarks;
 o there should be a focus on sustainable growth with a greater 
weighting on long-term, share-settled, performance-related pay;
 o total remuneration should be competitive but not excessive against 
appropriate market comparators (in this case, the top half of the 
FTSE 250);
 o there should be strong alignment with shareholders, with the delivery 
of upper quartile levels of reward only possible if shareholders have 
benefited from exceptional earnings growth, strong relative returns 
and a significant absolute total return; and
 o EPS growth and total shareholder return should continue to be 
the Company’s primary measures of performance. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 42
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration policy for 2016 continued
Mindful of the above objectives, the Committee proposes to restructure 
the CEO’s remuneration package to drive behaviour that is in the 
long-term interests of the company and its shareholders. In summary, 
approval is sought for a new policy at the 2016 AGM which:
 o freezes the CEO’s base salary at £510,000 p.a. over the three-year 
life of the new policy (for market context, the median CEO salary in 
the top half of the FTSE 250 at the time of review was £575,000);
 o reduces the annual bonus opportunity from 150% to 100% of salary 
for the life of the policy; 
 o continues with the current pension provision of up to 15% of salary, 
plus typical benefits in kind and insurance arrangements; 
 o increases the share ownership guideline, to be met by retaining 
shares from the vesting of options and awards (on an after-tax basis), 
from 150% to 200% of salary; and
 o makes a single grant of 534,000 performance shares to the CEO, 
in lieu of three annual grants over the period 2016-2018:
 o the award will vest in equal tranches after three, four and five years 
(subject to performance over commensurate periods) and any 
vested awards must be held for five years from the date of grant;
 o Relative TSR targets will continue to apply for one-third of the 
awards, one-third will be linked to EPS growth and the final third 
on ‘super stretch’ EPS targets; and 
 o once the vesting outcomes are determined, an underpin 
mechanism will apply to all awards which only permits the release 
of vested awards if TSR has increased in absolute terms over the 
measurement period. Awards which vest will only be released in 
full if our absolute total shareholder return has increased by 100%.
The Committee believes that this incentive structure, which converts the 
reduction in fixed pay and lower bonus opportunity into the prospect of 
greater longer term reward, is appropriate because it is aligned with the 
next stage of the Company’s strategy and the Board’s medium -term growth 
aspirations. Fixing the number of awards (based on a £10 share price at 
the time of the review) also provides greater certainty for the CEO and the 
Company as the long-term remuneration, in terms of number of awards 
and performance targets, is effectively fixed for the duration of the policy.
We are extremely conscious of investors’ and society’s continued focus 
on restraint in executive pay. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied 
that the above changes result in annualised remuneration at target levels 
of performance which is broadly equal to the median total target 
remuneration for a CEO in the top half of the FTSE 250. As further 
reassurance, the proposed arrangement results in lower total pay for 
the CEO than our current practice until EPS has, in the case of Tranche 1 
of the award, grown by a compound annual rate of more than c.17% 
p.a., the Company has delivered strong relative TSR performance and 
absolute TSR has grown by 100%. Therefore, the additional quantum 
of pay on offer will only be unlocked if performance has been 
truly exceptional.
In summary, the Committee believes the above changes to 
remuneration will result in a greater focus on long-term performance 
through a single grant of performance shares which vest after three, 
four and five years (but potentially up to seven years if absolute TSR 
has not doubled over that period). The stretching targets attached to 
these awards ensure that the additional long-term opportunity is only 
paid if performance has been truly exceptional. Overall, total target 
remuneration is approximately equal to mid-market UK levels and, 
therefore, the Committee is satisfied that overall amount of pay 
on offer is not excessive.
We have also been mindful of the need to balance returns with 
acceptable levels of risk taking. The Board will continue to oversee 
and approve all strategic developments, and will seek to avoid 
building excessive risk into the Group’s strategy in the expectation 
of short-term gains.
Shareholders’ views
The Committee has carried out an extensive consultation exercise with 
key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies on the 
proposed arrangements and is pleased with the constructive feedback 
and the general level of support received. The decision to increase the 
share ownership guideline from 150% to 200% of salary for 
participants in the 2016 LTIP was taken in response to views 
expressed by a number of our major shareholders.
The Committee continues to take an active interest in shareholders’ 
views and looks forward to maintaining an open and transparent 
dialogue in the future.
The new policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 
AGM, alongside a separate resolution to approve the new Long Term 
Incentive Plan and the usual resolution to approve the Remuneration 
Report. I am grateful for the time that our major shareholders gave 
to the consultation exercise and hope that all investors will feel able 
to support our remuneration resolutions at our 2016 AGM.
Kevin Higgins
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
INTRODUCTION
This report sets out the Company’s policy on Directors’ 
remuneration as well as information on remuneration paid 
to Directors in the financial year ended 27 December 2015. 
The report complies with the requirements of The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the ‘Regulations’) and has been 
prepared in line with the recommendations of the Code and the 
UK Listing Authority Listing Rules (the ‘Listing Rules’). 
The report has been divided into two sections:
 o Directors’ remuneration policy report – the revised policy will be 
put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM and there will 
be a separate resolution to vote on a new Long Term Incentive Plan. 
Subject to the policy being approved, it will become effective 
from the date of the AGM but in practice will be applied from 
the beginning of the 2016 financial year; and 
 o Annual report on remuneration – this will be subject to an 
advisory vote at the 2016 AGM and sets out the remuneration 
paid or payable in relation to the year ended 27 December 2015 
and how we intend to implement the policy for the year ahead. 
Those parts of the report which have been audited by 
Ernst & Young LLP are clearly identified.
Remuneration policy report
This part of our Directors’ remuneration report sets out the remuneration 
policy for the Company and, if approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, 
will apply for a period of three years.
Policy overview
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, 
the Remuneration Committee, consistent with the previous policy, 
takes into account the following: 
 o the need to set appropriate remuneration policies and packages 
which will attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior 
management acting in the long-term interests of the Company but 
avoid paying more than is necessary;
 o setting base salary at or below comparable market rates but 
weighting a significant proportion of total remuneration towards 
variable pay with an above-market incentive opportunity linked 
to the delivery of truly exceptional performance;
 o having demanding short and long-term performance targets that 
are specific, measurable and fully aligned with the Company’s 
business objectives to provide strong linkage between remuneration 
and performance;
 o creating a strong alignment between the interests of senior executives 
and the delivery of value to shareholders; 
 o avoiding creating excessive risks in the achievement of performance 
targets; and
 o conducting periodic external comparisons to examine current market 
trends and practices and equivalent roles in similar companies, 
taking into account their size, business complexity, international 
scope and relative performance.
The key changes to our policy for the CEO, David Wild are as follows:
 o base salary will be fixed for the duration of the policy. From 2016, 
his base salary will be unchanged and frozen at £510,000 until 2019;
 o annual bonus opportunity will be reduced from 150% of salary to 
100% of salary (payable in cash); and
 o a single grant of performance share awards will be made to him under 
the proposed 2016 LTIP covering grants over the period 2016–2018, 
vesting in 2019–2021. These awards will be subject to stretching 
performance criteria and continued employment. Performance 
measures will be relative TSR and growth in EPS, and the programme 
will be underpinned by a requirement for the total shareholder return 
of the Company to increase in absolute terms, with the full release 
of vested awards only achieved if TSR doubles. 
If the resolution to approve the 2016 LTIP is not passed, the Company 
may make annual awards under the 2012 LTIP subject to the limits 
set out in the policy table and the rules of that plan. In addition, base 
salaries will not be fixed over the life of the policy and the annual bonus 
opportunity will revert to up to 150% of salary (of which 1/3 would be 
deferred and settled in shares). Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base salary o Reflects the responsibility level and complexity 
of the role
 o Reflects skills and experience over time
 o Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income 
avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance 
on variable income
 o Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with 
the exception of the CEO whose salary will be 
frozen at £510,000 until 2019 (for the three-year 
duration of the policy), subject to his participation 
in the 2016 LTIP
 o Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels 
in companies with similar characteristics and 
sector comparators
 o Set in the context of pay and employment 
conditions in the Group 
 o Salaries will typically be targeted at or below 
the relevant market rate 
 o Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis 
(except for David Wild, as explained in the Operation column) with 
the rate of increase (in percentage terms) typically linked to those 
of the wider workforce 
 o If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope 
in a role, a material sustained change in the size and/or complexity 
of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary 
increases beyond those of the wider workforce
 o If pay is set at a discount to the Company’s normal policy on 
appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards 
an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider 
workforce based on performance and experience
 o n/a
Pension o Provides market-competitive, yet cost-effective 
retirement benefits
 o Opportunity for Executives to contribute to their 
own retirement plan
 o Defined contribution or cash supplement
 o HMRC-approved salary sacrifice arrangement
 o Salary sacrifice for employee contribution
 o Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or 
payment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to 15% 
of basic salary
 o n/a
Other benefits o Provide cost-effective insured benefits to support 
the individual and their family 
 o Access to company car to facilitate effective travel
 o Benefits are provided through third-party 
providers and include medical and life insurance
 o Company cars or cash equivalents provided
 o The Committee may offer Executive Directors 
other employee benefits from time to time on 
broadly the same terms as provided to the 
wider workforce
 o Family level private medical insurance cover provided
 o Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary
 o Company car or cash allowance in lieu
 o The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, 
based on the cost from third-party providers
 o n/a
Annual performance bonus o Incentivise annual delivery of financial and 
operational goals linked to the Company’s strategy
 o Up to two-thirds of the annual bonus is paid in 
cash and one-third deferred into shares that will 
vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture, 
with the exception of participants in the 2016 
LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash
 o Dividends which accrue on vested shares may 
be payable
 o Not pensionable
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Stretching targets drive operational efficiency 
and influence the level of returns that should 
ultimately be delivered to shareholders through 
share price and dividends
 o The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but 
David Wild’s bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary if he 
participates in the 2016 LTIP
 o The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary 
 o Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic 
targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis
 o The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics 
(e.g. underlying PBT) with a graduated scale set around the target
 o A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which 
are aligned to the key objectives from year to year
 o A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold 
performance level. In relation to financial targets, 20% of this part of 
the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance 
target. In relation to any strategic or individual measures used, it is not 
always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective. Where it is, 
a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the 
threshold performance level as for financial targets
 o Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will 
be included in the relevant Directors’ remuneration report
2012 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘2012 LTIP’)
 o Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude eligibility 
for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, until 2019
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing the Company’s share price over 
the medium term
 o Annual grant of market value options 
or performance shares
 o Subject to performance conditions measured 
over three years
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid 
on vested shares
 o Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary 
in performance shares
 o The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance 
shares at up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director
 o Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance 
against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR 
performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion
 o Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% 
of a performance share award
 o A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold 
performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum 
performance (there is graduated vesting between these points)
 o The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets 
is not less than three financial years
Directors’ remuneration report continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base salary o Reflects the responsibility level and complexity 
of the role
 o Reflects skills and experience over time
 o Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income 
avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance 
on variable income
 o Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with 
the exception of the CEO whose salary will be 
frozen at £510,000 until 2019 (for the three-year 
duration of the policy), subject to his participation 
in the 2016 LTIP
 o Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels 
in companies with similar characteristics and 
sector comparators
 o Set in the context of pay and employment 
conditions in the Group 
 o Salaries will typically be targeted at or below 
the relevant market rate 
 o Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis 
(except for David Wild, as explained in the Operation column) with 
the rate of increase (in percentage terms) typically linked to those 
of the wider workforce 
 o If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope 
in a role, a material sustained change in the size and/or complexity 
of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary 
increases beyond those of the wider workforce
 o If pay is set at a discount to the Company’s normal policy on 
appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards 
an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider 
workforce based on performance and experience
 o n/a
Pension o Provides market-competitive, yet cost-effective 
retirement benefits
 o Opportunity for Executives to contribute to their 
own retirement plan
 o Defined contribution or cash supplement
 o HMRC-approved salary sacrifice arrangement
 o Salary sacrifice for employee contribution
 o Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or 
payment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to 15% 
of basic salary
 o n/a
Other benefits o Provide cost-effective insured benefits to support 
the individual and their family 
 o Access to company car to facilitate effective travel
 o Benefits are provided through third-party 
providers and include medical and life insurance
 o Company cars or cash equivalents provided
 o The Committee may offer Executive Directors 
other employee benefits from time to time on 
broadly the same terms as provided to the 
wider workforce
 o Family level private medical insurance cover provided
 o Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary
 o Company car or cash allowance in lieu
 o The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, 
based on the cost from third-party providers
 o n/a
Annual performance bonus o Incentivise annual delivery of financial and 
operational goals linked to the Company’s strategy
 o Up to two-thirds of the annual bonus is paid in 
cash and one-third deferred into shares that will 
vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture, 
with the exception of participants in the 2016 
LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash
 o Dividends which accrue on vested shares may 
be payable
 o Not pensionable
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Stretching targets drive operational efficiency 
and influence the level of returns that should 
ultimately be delivered to shareholders through 
share price and dividends
 o The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but 
David Wild’s bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary if he 
participates in the 2016 LTIP
 o The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary 
 o Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic 
targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis
 o The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics 
(e.g. underlying PBT) with a graduated scale set around the target
 o A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which 
are aligned to the key objectives from year to year
 o A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold 
performance level. In relation to financial targets, 20% of this part of 
the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance 
target. In relation to any strategic or individual measures used, it is not 
always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective. Where it is, 
a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the 
threshold performance level as for financial targets
 o Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will 
be included in the relevant Directors’ remuneration report
2012 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘2012 LTIP’)
 o Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude eligibility 
for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, until 2019
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing the Company’s share price over 
the medium term
 o Annual grant of market value options 
or performance shares
 o Subject to performance conditions measured 
over three years
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid 
on vested shares
 o Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary 
in performance shares
 o The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance 
shares at up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director
 o Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance 
against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR 
performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion
 o Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% 
of a performance share award
 o A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold 
performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum 
performance (there is graduated vesting between these points)
 o The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets 
is not less than three financial years Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘2016 LTIP’)
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable long-term growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing earnings and the Company’s 
share price over the medium term
 o Single grant of performance shares to cover three 
years of normal annual grants of performance shares 
in 2016, 2017 and 2018
 o Awards vest in three tranches three, four and 
five years after the start of the performance period
 o Subject to (i) performance conditions measured 
over three, four and five years and (ii) the 
absolute TSR underpin mechanism
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested 
shares up to their vesting date and on vested 
shares that are subject to a holding period
 o A holding period applies which prevents the sale 
of any vested shares before the fifth anniversary 
of the start of the performance period (except 
to fund tax or similar obligations)
 o Individual limit of 534,000 performance shares covering the life 
of the policy
 o One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition 
measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 15% of 
this element will vest for median performance rising up to full vesting 
for an upper quartile ranking or better
 o One-third will be set against stretching EPS targets and the final third 
against super-stretch EPS targets all using 2015 EPS as the base year
 o For threshold levels of performance, 10% of stretch EPS-linked awards 
and 0% of super-stretch EPS-linked awards will vest
 o Once the potential vesting outcomes are known, an underpin 
mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested awards 
in proportion to the extent that TSR has increased in absolute terms, 
up to a 100% absolute TSR target. Awards will only be released in full 
if our absolute TSR has increased by 100%. The underpin will be 
reviewed every six months over the seven-year life of the award
Share ownership guidelines o To provide alignment between Executives 
and shareholders
 o To encourage a focus on sustainable 
long-term performance
 o Executives are expected to retain shares from 
the vesting of options and awards (on an after-tax 
basis) to build and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to the guideline multiple of salary 
within five years of joining
 o At least 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors, 
with 200% for participants in the 2016 LTIP 
 o n/a
Non-executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Non-executive  
Director fees
 o Reflects the value of the individual’s skills 
and experience
 o Recognises expected time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o Chairman’s fee set by the Committee. 
Non-executive Directors’ fees set by the Board
 o Fees are normally reviewed biennially, 
effective 1 January
 o Takes into account periodic external reviews 
against companies with similar characteristics 
and sector comparators
 o Set in the context of time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o A base fee is provided to all non-executive 
Directors with supplemental fees payable for 
chairing the sub-Committees and for holding 
the Senior Independent Director position
 o Non-executive Directors do not participate 
in any annual bonus, share incentive plans, 
or pension arrangements
 o Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed for any 
expenses (on a gross of tax basis) incurred in the 
course of carrying out their role which are deemed 
to be taxable by HMRC (or equivalent body)
 o The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to 
the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies 
of comparable size and complexity
 o The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year 
period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective 
date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time commitment 
of the role, increases to fee levels for non-executive Directors in 
general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity
 o Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary 
to do so, to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive Director 
of an appropriate calibre
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘2016 LTIP’)
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable long-term growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing earnings and the Company’s 
share price over the medium term
 o Single grant of performance shares to cover three 
years of normal annual grants of performance shares 
in 2016, 2017 and 2018
 o Awards vest in three tranches three, four and 
five years after the start of the performance period
 o Subject to (i) performance conditions measured 
over three, four and five years and (ii) the 
absolute TSR underpin mechanism
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested 
shares up to their vesting date and on vested 
shares that are subject to a holding period
 o A holding period applies which prevents the sale 
of any vested shares before the fifth anniversary 
of the start of the performance period (except 
to fund tax or similar obligations)
 o Individual limit of 534,000 performance shares covering the life 
of the policy
 o One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition 
measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 15% of 
this element will vest for median performance rising up to full vesting 
for an upper quartile ranking or better
 o One-third will be set against stretching EPS targets and the final third 
against super-stretch EPS targets all using 2015 EPS as the base year
 o For threshold levels of performance, 10% of stretch EPS-linked awards 
and 0% of super-stretch EPS-linked awards will vest
 o Once the potential vesting outcomes are known, an underpin 
mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested awards 
in proportion to the extent that TSR has increased in absolute terms, 
up to a 100% absolute TSR target. Awards will only be released in full 
if our absolute TSR has increased by 100%. The underpin will be 
reviewed every six months over the seven-year life of the award
Share ownership guidelines o To provide alignment between Executives 
and shareholders
 o To encourage a focus on sustainable 
long-term performance
 o Executives are expected to retain shares from 
the vesting of options and awards (on an after-tax 
basis) to build and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to the guideline multiple of salary 
within five years of joining
 o At least 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors, 
with 200% for participants in the 2016 LTIP 
 o n/a
Non-executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Non-executive  
Director fees
 o Reflects the value of the individual’s skills 
and experience
 o Recognises expected time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o Chairman’s fee set by the Committee. 
Non-executive Directors’ fees set by the Board
 o Fees are normally reviewed biennially, 
effective 1 January
 o Takes into account periodic external reviews 
against companies with similar characteristics 
and sector comparators
 o Set in the context of time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o A base fee is provided to all non-executive 
Directors with supplemental fees payable for 
chairing the sub-Committees and for holding 
the Senior Independent Director position
 o Non-executive Directors do not participate 
in any annual bonus, share incentive plans, 
or pension arrangements
 o Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed for any 
expenses (on a gross of tax basis) incurred in the 
course of carrying out their role which are deemed 
to be taxable by HMRC (or equivalent body)
 o The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to 
the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies 
of comparable size and complexity
 o The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year 
period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective 
date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time commitment 
of the role, increases to fee levels for non-executive Directors in 
general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity
 o Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary 
to do so, to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive Director 
of an appropriate calibre Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration policy report continued
Operation of the annual bonus plan and LTIP policy
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, the 2012 LTIP and 
proposed 2016 LTIP schemes in accordance with their respective rules 
and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements 
where relevant. 
Within these rules, the Remuneration Committee is required to retain a 
number of discretions to ensure an effective operation and administration 
of these plans. These discretions are consistent with standard market 
practice and include (but are not limited to):
 o who participates in the plans;
 o when awards are granted and/or paid;
 o the size of an award and/or a payment (subject to the limits stated 
in the policy table above);
 o how to determine the level of vesting; 
 o how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group;
 o how to determine a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes;
 o how to determine any adjustments required in certain circumstances 
(e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special 
dividends); and
 o reviewing the performance conditions (range of targets, measures 
and weightings) for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
If certain events occur, such as a material acquisition or the divestment 
of a Group business, the original performance conditions may no longer 
be appropriate. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee retains the 
discretion to make adjustments to the targets and/or set different 
measures and alter weightings as they deem necessary to ensure the 
conditions achieve their original purpose, are appropriate in the revised 
circumstances and, in any event, are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in 
the Directors’ remuneration report and may, where appropriate, be the 
subject of prior consultation with the Company’s major shareholders.
The outstanding share-settled incentive awards which are detailed on 
pages 57 to 58 and any arrangements agreed prior to the effective date 
of this policy will remain eligible to vest or pay out based on their original 
award terms. This includes any awards granted under the Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan (‘DSBP’) or the 2012 LTIP scheme. In addition, all arrangements 
previously disclosed in prior years’ Directors’ remuneration reports will 
remain eligible to vest or become payable on their original terms.
Balance between fixed and variable pay
The performance-related elements of remuneration are dependent upon 
the achievement of outcomes that are important drivers of sustainable 
growth for the business and therefore the creation of value for shareholders. 
The remuneration package offered to Executive Directors by the Company 
is therefore more heavily performance-related than that operated in 
comparatively sized leisure companies and companies in the upper half 
of the FTSE 250 more generally, particularly at higher levels of performance.
Illustration of remuneration scenarios
The chart below illustrates the total remuneration for the Chief Executive 
based on the proposed policy under three different scenarios – minimum, 
target and maximum. Given that the 2016 LTIP is expected to cover 
three grants, we have applied a value to each tranche to arrive at an 
annualised value.
Assumptions
Minimum – comprises fixed pay using a £510,000 base salary, 15% pension 
contribution and the value of 2015 benefits.
Target – Minimum plus bonus of an assumed 50% of salary plus threshold vesting of 
Tranche 1 of the 2016 LTIP under the Relative TSR and stretch EPS parts of the 2016 
LTIP . Assumes no vesting under the super stretch EPS targets. The absolute TSR 
underpin mechanism assumes 75% vesting is achieved.
Maximum – Minimum plus maximum bonus plus full vesting of Tranche 1 of the 2016 
LTIP , including the super stretch element. The absolute TSR underpin mechanism 
assumes 100% vesting.
This has been modelled at a share price of 1020p, being that in force on the last day of the 
2015 financial year. No account has been taken of any prospective share price increases.
Choice of performance metrics
As detailed in the strategic report on pages 1 to 29, the Group seeks to 
accelerate sales growth in the UK, build on its leadership in digital and 
mobile ordering, drive further improvements in franchisee profitability 
and grow its international markets profitably. For incentive purposes, 
this results in underlying profit before tax being used as the primary 
performance metric in the annual bonus plan and a combination of 
relative TSR and growth in EPS being used as the performance metrics 
within the 2012 LTIP. For the 2016 LTIP, these metrics will be retained 
and supplemented with an absolute TSR underpin.
Underlying EPS measures the Company’s success in delivering 
long-term profit growth, a key contributor to the Company’s valuation, 
and is considered by the Committee to be the most appropriate 
measure of long-term financial performance. It is also used by the 
Board to determine success in executing our strategy.
Relative TSR helps align management’s and shareholders’ interests, since 
the executives will only be rewarded to the extent that the Company delivers 
a return to shareholders above the median company of comparable size, 
with full vesting on this measure requiring top quartile performance.
Absolute TSR helps address the issue of being the best performer in a 
falling market, by requiring that there has been a positive growth in TSR 
over the measurement period. 
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate risk taking is neither 
encouraged nor rewarded. For financial targets, a sliding scale is applied, 
with a very modest amount being payable for threshold levels of performance. 
A number of the Company’s non-financial strategic objectives have been 
incorporated into the annual bonus for Executive Directors and will be 
applied on an individual basis for a minority of the overall bonus opportunity. 
These objectives will also be measured on a sliding scale of performance. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Minimum
0
£500
£1,000
£1,500
£2,000
£2,500
£3,000
£000
Target
CEO – David Wild
Maximum
100% 62% 20%
26%
12%
18%
62%
£597
£965
£2,922
Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Choice of performance metrics continued
The Committee will review the continued appropriateness of the annual 
bonus (and, if applicable, 2012 LTIP) performance conditions on an 
annual basis to ensure that they remain aligned to the Company’s 
strategy. The Committee will make necessary changes to the weightings 
of measures and/or introduce new measures which they believe would 
provide a closer link to the business strategy within the confines of the 
policy detailed above. Shareholder dialogue would take place, as 
appropriate, should there be any material change of emphasis in relation 
to current practices. 
How employees’ pay is taken into account
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group were considered when 
finalising the current policy for the Executive Directors. In particular, 
the Committee is updated on salary increases for the general employee 
population, Company-wide benefit provision, level of annual bonuses and 
staff participation in long-term incentive schemes, so it is aware of how 
the total remuneration of the Executive Directors compares with the 
average total remuneration of employees generally. 
The Committee does not formally or directly consult with employees on 
Executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group HR Director. 
The Committee is also informed of the results of employee engagement 
surveys, which do not contain any specific questions related to Executive 
Director remuneration, but the most recent of which indicated that most 
employees show high levels of engagement and feel that reward is an 
important attribute of their job. 
How the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy 
relates to the Group
The remuneration policy described above provides an overview of the 
structure that operates for the most senior executives in the Group, with 
a significant element of remuneration dependent on Company and 
individual performance.
A lower aggregate level of incentive payment applies below Executive 
Director level, driven by market comparatives, internal relativities and the 
potential impact of the role. The vast majority of the Group’s employees 
participate in an annual bonus plan, with the limits and performance 
conditions varying according to job grade. 
The Committee believes that broad-based employee share ownership 
provides a key element in retention and motivation in the wider workforce. 
Long-term incentives are provided through the Group’s discretionary 
share schemes to executives and managers in all territories in which 
Group companies operate. The Company also offers a HMRC-registered 
savings-related share option scheme for all UK-based employees with 
more than six months’ service, including Executive Directors.
All newly appointed employees, including Executive Directors, are 
eligible to join a defined contribution pension plan, whereby they make 
a contribution to the nominated plan, with the Company typically 
contributing double the amount paid by the employee.
How is risk managed in relation to short 
and long-term incentives? 
The Committee believes that the consideration and management of risk 
is important when formulating and then operating appropriate remuneration 
structures (notably the performance criteria) for senior management. 
All of the members of the Committee are also members of the Audit 
Committee, whose chairman is also a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. The Remuneration Committee has a good understanding 
of the key risks facing the business and the relevance of these to the 
remuneration strategy, most particularly when setting targets for 
performance-related pay. 
In line with the Investment Association’s Guidelines on Responsible 
Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the 
incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will 
not raise environmental, social or governance (‘ESG’) risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour and remuneration 
design can be flexed to address ESG issues when appropriate. The 
Committee has due regard to issues of general operational risk when 
structuring incentives.
The clawback provisions in respect of annual bonuses and long-term 
share plans also provide the Committee with a mechanism to recover 
monies in certain circumstances, for example, if a misstatement of results 
is identified. Share ownership guidelines and the design of the 2016 
LTIP help to ensure that the Executive Directors have a strong personal 
focus on long-term sustainable performance, heavily driven by the 
relative and absolute returns delivered to shareholders. 
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received around 
the AGM and analyses the votes cast on the relevant items of business. 
This feedback, plus views received during meetings with institutional 
shareholders and their representative bodies, is considered as part of the 
Company’s annual review of remuneration policy. The Remuneration 
Committee also consults with its key shareholders whenever appropriate. 
A full consultation exercise was undertaken during early 2016 with 
shareholders’ views being reflected in the revised policy proposed 
in this report.
The Committee values feedback from its shareholders and seeks to 
maintain a continued open dialogue. Investors who wish to discuss 
remuneration issues should contact the Company Secretary. 
Service contracts and policy on exit
The Committee reviews the contractual terms for new Executive Directors 
to ensure that these reflect best practice. 
Service contracts are normally entered into on a rolling basis, with notice 
periods given by the employing company limited to 12 months or less. 
Should notice be served by either party, the executive can continue to 
receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice 
period, during which time the relevant Group company may require the 
individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of 
garden leave. An Executive Director’s service contract may be terminated 
without notice and without any further payment or compensation, save for 
sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain 
events of gross misconduct. If the Company terminates the employment 
of an Executive Director in breach of contract, compensation is limited to 
salary due for any unexpired notice period and any amount assessed by 
the Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits 
which would have been received during the unexpired notice period.
The policy for any new Executive Director would be based on terms that 
are consistent with these provisions but will also include the ability for the 
Company to make a payment in lieu of notice (limited to a maximum value 
of 12 months’ base salary, pension and benefits). Payments in lieu of notice 
may be made in monthly instalments and would reduce proportionately 
to the extent that alternative employment income was received (i.e. phased 
payments, subject to mitigation). 
David Wild, the Chief Executive Officer has a rolling contract dated 
30 April 2014, which is terminable on six months’ notice from either 
party. Paul Doughty, who was serving as Chief Financial Officer at the 
end of the 2015 financial year has an equivalent rolling contract dated 
8 June 2015, also terminable on six months’ notice. Both of these 
contracts include payment in lieu of notice provisions as per the policy 
detailed above.
Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable. In the event of a change 
of control of the Group, there is no enhancement to contractual terms. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration policy report continued
Service contracts and policy on exit continued
In summary, the contractual provisions for the Executive Directors are as follows:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months or less
Maximum termination payment Base salary plus benefits and pension, subject to mitigation for new Directors
Remuneration entitlements A pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with vesting 
for outstanding share awards (in certain circumstances – see below)
In all cases performance targets would apply
Change of control As on termination
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Company’s LTIP schemes or bonus entitlement under the annual 
performance bonus will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 
With regard to the circumstances under which the Executive Directors might leave service, these are described below with a description 
of the anticipated payments:
Departure on agreed terms (e.g.
asked to leave due to revised skill
Remuneration element ‘Bad’ leaver (e.g. resignation) sets required for role) ‘Good’ leaver (e.g. ill health, retirement)
Salary in lieu 
of notice period
Salary for proportion of notice 
period served
Treatment will normally 
fall between good leaver 
and bad leaver treatment, 
subject to the discretion 
of the Remuneration 
Committee and the terms 
of any termination 
agreement
Up to a maximum of 100% of salary
Pension and benefits Provided for proportion of notice 
period served
Up to one year’s worth of pension and benefits 
(e.g. redundancy)
Possible payment of pension and insured benefits 
triggered by the leaver event (this would be 
governed by the terms of the benefits provided)
Bonus If resigns, reduced pro rata to reflect 
proportion of bonus year employed 
(provided performance conditions 
met) at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. If 
dismissed for cause, none payable
Reduced pro rata to reflect proportion of bonus year 
elapsed (provided performance conditions met)
Long-term incentive 
entitlements (2012 LTIP)
Lapse Up to full vesting, based on performance tested over 
the full performance period (or to the date of cessation 
at the discretion of the Committee)
Where awards are granted as market value options, the 
award may also be reduced pro rata (at the discretion 
of the Committee) to reflect the proportion of the 
performance period elapsed to the date of cessation
Where awards are granted as performance shares, 
awards will be subject to a pro rata reduction unless 
the Committee determines otherwise
Long-term incentive 
entitlements (2016 LTIP)
Lapse Awards will normally continue to be capable of vesting 
subject to performance measured at the normal 
calculation date (or until the absolute TSR condition 
has been satisfied prior to the award’s expiry) and a 
pro rata reduction by reference to the proportion of the 
relevant three, four and five-year performance periods 
that have expired, unless the Remuneration Committee 
determines otherwise, on an exceptional basis
Other payments None Disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement, redundancy entitlements
Directors’ remuneration report continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Non-executive Director remuneration
The Non-executive Directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office. With the exception of 
Colin Halpern, who is nominated to the Board pursuant to a contractual agreement, each of the Non-executive Directors is appointed for a fixed term 
of three years, renewable for a further three-year term if agreed and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive Directors:
Appointment date Date most recent term commenced Expected date of expiry of current term
Stephen Hemsley 1 January 2008  
(as Executive Chairman)
30 March 2013 
(as non-executive Chairman)
30 March 2016
Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling annual n/a
Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 20 September 2017
Ebbe Jacobsen 31 January 2014 31 January 2014 31 January 2017
Kevin Higgins 8 September 2014 8 September 2014 8 September 2017
Steve Barber 1 July 2015 1 July 2015 1 July 2018
Recruitment and promotion policy
When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: 
Remuneration element Policy
Base salary Salary levels will be set based on the experience, knowledge and skills of the individual and be set in the context of market 
rates for equivalent roles in companies of a similar size and complexity. The Committee will also consider Group relativities 
when setting base salary levels
The Committee may set initial base salaries below the perceived market rate with the aim to make multi-year staged 
increases to achieve the desired market position over time. Where necessary these increases may be above those 
of the wider workforce, but will be subject to continued development in the role
Benefits Benefits will be as provided to current Executive Directors
The Committee will consider meeting the cost of certain reasonable relocation expenses and legal fees as necessary
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at a level no more (as a percentage of salary) than current Executive Directors
Annual bonus The annual bonus would be operated in line with that set out in the policy table for current Executive Directors
For a new joiner, the bonus would be pro rated for the period of service
Due to the timing or nature of the appointment, the Committee may determine it necessary to set different modified 
performance conditions for the first year of appointment
Long-term incentives Participation will be in accordance with the information set out in the policy table
Awards may be made shortly after an appointment, subject to prohibited periods
Any new appointment would be eligible to participate in the all-employee share options arrangements on the same terms 
as all other employees
For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms 
as at the date of grant
Additional incentives 
on appointment
The Committee will assess whether it is necessary to buy out remuneration which would be forfeited from 
a previous employer
The Committee will, where possible, seek to offer a direct replacement award taking into account the structure, quantum, time 
horizons and relevant performance conditions which would impact on the expected value of the remuneration to be forfeited
The Committee will use the existing remuneration plans where possible, although it may be necessary to grant outside 
of these schemes using exemptions permitted under the Listing Rules 
External appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors in other companies and that these appointments 
can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company. Subject to pre-agreed conditions, and with prior approval of the Board, 
each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a non-executive director in another listed company. The Executive Director is 
permitted to retain any fees paid for such service.  Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual report on remuneration
Role and membership
The Committee is responsible for the Chairman’s and the Executive Directors’ remuneration and also oversees the remuneration packages of other 
senior executives. The remuneration and terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Financial Officer and relevant senior 
executives and, when appropriate, are invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration 
is considered.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Remuneration Committee. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually and can be found on the Group’s website, 
corporate.dominos.co.uk. The Remuneration Committee normally meets up to four times in each year and additionally as circumstances dictate.
During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance at the meetings were:
Name Member since Attendance
Kevin Higgins (Chairman) 22 September 2014 4 out of 4
Helen Keays 22 September 2014 4 out of 4
Steve Barber (from 16 September 2015) 16 September 2015 1 out of 1
Michael Shallow (resigned 31 July 2015) 1 January 2006 3 out of 3
External advisers
Throughout the year, New Bridge Street (‘NBS’), a trading name of AON plc, was retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide it with relevant 
consultancy services. NBS were selected on an arm’s length basis and appointed by the Remuneration Committee. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration 
Consultants’ Code of Conduct and did not provide any other services to the Company except in relation to senior management remuneration matters. 
The total fees for NBS services in the year were £80,634 excluding VAT. The Remuneration Committee reviews its relationship with external advisers 
on a regular basis and, noting that NBS does not provide any other services to the Group, continues to believe that there are no conflicts of interest.
What has the Remuneration Committee done during the year?
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year to consider and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items including the following: 
A) Management of individual remuneration
 o reviewed and approved Executive Directors’ and senior management base salaries and benefits;
 o reviewed year-end business performance and performance-linked reward in order to determine annual bonus payouts and vesting 
of long-term incentives;
 o approved the termination payments made to Sean Wilkins;
 o approved the terms of Paul Doughty’s recruitment and monitored the implications of his subsequent resignation;
 o approved long-term incentive awards made in 2015; 
 o reviewed the non-executive Chairman’s fees; and
 o carried out a comprehensive review of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior management for the 2016 financial year, 
including performance measures for the annual performance bonus and 2016 share plan awards to ensure measures are aligned with strategy 
and that targets are appropriately stretching.
B) Governance of the remuneration programme
 o reviewed and approved the Directors’ remuneration report;
 o monitored guidance and directional themes from institutional shareholder bodies in relation to new reporting requirements;
 o reviewed 2015 AGM results and feedback from institutional shareholders;
 o confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are not anticipated to inadvertently encourage any undue risk taking; and
 o reviewed and approved a revised Directors’ remuneration policy and the key terms of the 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016
As explained in the Chairman’s annual statement, the Remuneration 
Committee’s review concluded that, in respect of the CEO, a low salary 
positioning should be retained with the amount frozen over the life of 
the policy and a reduced annual bonus opportunity. Transferring this 
value to a greater long-term reward opportunity under the 2016 Long 
Term Incentive Plan will provide a far greater incentive. Overall, the 
Remuneration Committee is satisfied that:
 o the CEO’s total target remuneration on an annualised basis is broadly 
equivalent to a mid-market package for an equivalent position in 
similarly sized UK companies; and
 o the maximum additional incentive opportunity will only be available 
if the super stretch EPS targets are achieved and the Company 
achieves a 100% TSR over the life of the award.
In addition, by setting the award quantum and performance targets, 
the executive and the Company each have greater clarity on the 
five-year growth and reward expectations. It also has the advantage of 
avoiding the need to set LTIP performance criteria on an annual basis. 
Base salary
If the 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan resolution is approved at the 2016 
AGM, the salary for the Chief Executive Officer will be frozen at £510,000 
until 2019. This salary is significantly below the median of companies of a 
similar size and reflects the higher weighting given to long-term variable 
pay through the introduction of the 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan. 
Annual performance bonus (‘APB’)
The APB provides a focus on the delivery of the stretching targets that 
are set by the Committee following consideration of the Company’s 
annual operating plan by the Board each year and there is a threshold 
level of performance below which no award is paid. 
The performance conditions for the APB for the 2016 financial year will 
be based both on achieving and exceeding the Group’s underlying PBT 
growth targets set by the Board (70% of bonus) and on achieving 
individual business objectives (30% of bonus) which support the 
business plan. The targets applying to the APB will operate on a banded 
scale commencing at 20%, with 50% of bonus payable at target levels 
of performance through to maximum performance levels. If the 2016 
LTIP is approved, the maximum bonus opportunity for the CEO will be 
reduced from 150% to 100% of salary.
The underlying PBT measure is based on internally set targets and pays 
out 20% at threshold (95% of target) rising on a pro rata basis to 50% 
payout at target with full payment only due if we achieve 110% of target. 
For 2016, strategic personal objectives will be set by the Committee 
linked to the Company’s strategic goals. The Committee believes a second 
performance measure provides an appropriate balance of focus between 
annual profitability objectives and driving changes which underpin the 
Group’s strategy. However, no individual objective component of the 
bonus may be earned unless a threshold level of Group underlying PBT 
has been achieved. Individual objectives are also set on a sliding scale 
based around a target. 
Given that the financial targets require significant growth from a 2015 
actual underlying PBT base point (which in itself was a substantial 
growth from 2014), the Committee believes these targets to be 
extremely challenging again this year.
The Committee considers that the performance targets in relation to 
the APB are commercially sensitive and therefore will not be disclosed 
on a prospective basis, but intends that the targets and outcomes are 
disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report once they are no longer 
considered sensitive, as has been its practice in recent years. 
For 2012 LTIP participants, two-thirds of any bonus payments will be 
made in cash, with the remaining third deferred into Company shares, 
which will vest after two years during which time they remain subject 
to forfeiture. Dividend equivalents will be payable on vested shares. 
However, if the 2016 LTIP is approved at the 2016 AGM, the CEO will 
receive his annual bonus payment (from the 2016 financial year 
onwards) wholly in cash.
A clawback provision will continue to apply which will enable the Committee 
to recover any value which was overpaid in the event of a misstatement 
of the Company’s accounts or other relevant measure of performance, 
either by withholding future incentive pay or asking for the net of tax 
overpayment to be repaid.
Any bonuses paid are non-pensionable and are not taken into account 
when determining base salary for performance-related remuneration.
Long-term incentives
If the 2016 LTIP is approved at the 2016 AGM, the awards to be granted 
in 2016 will be structured as nil-cost options or conditional awards 
which will vest in equal tranches after three, four and five years. 
A holding period will apply which requires any vested awards (net of tax) 
to be held for at least five years from the date of grant.
The Committee intends to make an award of 534,000 performance 
shares to the Chief Executive Officer in 2016. The value was arrived at 
by considering typical total target remuneration levels in similarly sized 
companies and addressing the shortfall in the package as a result of 
freezing base salary at below market levels for three years and reducing 
the annual bonus opportunity. Dividend equivalents may be payable on 
shares released up to their date of vesting or on vested shares subject 
to the holding period.
In terms of performance targets, the Remuneration Committee intends 
to apply two independent performance metrics, relative TSR and EPS. 
Once the vesting outcome for each tranche is determined, an absolute 
TSR underpin will also apply. If the 2012 LTIP is operated in 2016, then 
the same measures and targets will be used as applied in 2015. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Absolute TSR underpin
Once the potential vesting outcomes are known for each tranche, an 
underpin mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested 
awards if TSR has increased in absolute terms with awards released on a 
proportionate basis. For example, if the Company’s TSR at the calculation 
date for a particular tranche is 75%, then only three-quarters of the awards 
capable of vesting under that tranche (having applied the EPS and relative 
TSR tests) will be released. Awards will only be released in full if our 
absolute TSR has increased by 100%. Progression towards the TSR 
doubling target will be assessed upon the completion of the relevant 
performance period and every six months thereafter until the expiry 
of the award shortly after its seventh anniversary of grant, in 2023. 
This additional absolute TSR requirement provides further alignment 
between reward outcomes and shareholder returns. 
The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately 
demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market 
expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning. 
Furthermore, given the reliance placed on long-term incentives in our 
overall remuneration policy, the proposed targets are considered to 
provide an appropriate range of stretching but achievable targets that 
will both retain and motivate the executive team to deliver the Board’s 
strategy. Compared with the previous policy, the proposed remuneration 
for the CEO, based on Tranche 1, should be lower unless a compound 
annual growth in EPS growth of at least 17% p.a. and 100% TSR has 
been achieved. 
In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as the metrics to apply to future awards, 
the Committee has sought to provide a balance between incentivising 
delivery against our key measure of success in delivering profitable growth 
(underlying EPS) and further aligning the Executives with shareholders 
through the introduction of a relative TSR condition. The absolute TSR 
underpin provides a requirement for delivering absolute shareholder 
returns through distributions and share price growth.
Clawback and malus
A recovery provision will apply to all awards made under the LTIP which 
will enable the Committee to recover any value which was overpaid in 
the event of a misstatement of the Company’s accounts or other relevant 
measure of performance, either through withholding future incentive pay 
or through asking for the net of tax excess value received to be repaid. 
Benefits and supplements
Benefits in kind provided for Executive Directors are principally company 
car provision or an allowance in lieu of company car, mobile telephone, life 
insurance cover and private health cover for Executive Directors and their 
family. Benefits in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into account 
when determining base salary for performance-related remuneration. 
Pension
The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for Executive 
Directors to ensure that the benefits provided are consistent with those 
provided by other similar companies and take account of changes 
in relevant legislation.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme. Instead, 
the Company contributes to the Executive Directors’ personal pensions 
or provides a cash supplement, at a rate of up to 15% of base salary. 
The Committee approves the pension arrangements and contributions 
made by the Group on behalf of the Executive Directors. The Company 
does not contribute to any pension arrangements for the 
non-executive Directors.
New appointments
The remuneration arrangements for any new appointments to the Board 
will be consistent with the Company’s approved remuneration policy and 
policy table.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 continued
Long-term incentives continued
Performance conditions
One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 15% of this element will 
continue to vest for median performance rising up to full vesting for an upper quartile ranking or better, measured over three, four and five years as appropriate. 
The second one-third of each tranche will vest subject to stretching EPS targets and the final third will vest subject to exacting super-stretch EPS 
targets. Both EPS components will use actual 2015 EPS as the base year from which growth is measured. 
Targets for each element across the various tranches are as follows:
Weighting
Vesting of each tranche
(straight line between each point)
Tranche 1 –
 performance to
 end of year 3
Tranche 2 – 
performance to
 end of year 4
Tranche 3 – 
performance to
 end of year 5
One-third relative TSR targets 0% Below median Below median Below median
15% Median Median Median
100% Upper quartile Upper quartile Upper quartile
One-third stretch targets: 0% <30% <40% <50%
Cumulative growth in EPS 10% 30% 40% 50%
45% 40% 50% 60%
80% 50% 60% 75%
100% 60% 75% 90%
One-third super stretch targets: 0% 60% 75% 90%
Cumulative growth in EPS 50% 70% 85% 105%
100% 80% 100% 120%
At the end of the relevant performance periods, the provisional vesting outcome will be determined by reference to TSR and EPS performance. 
This will determine the maximum percentage of awards capable of vesting. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 continued
Non-executive Directors’ fees 
Non-executive Directors’ fees are reviewed biennially and the last review was carried out in February 2016. The fee structure for the Chairman 
and other non-executive Directors for 2016 and 2017 will be as follows:
 o Chairman – £225,000;
 o Non-executive Director base fee – £47,000;
 o Audit Committee Chairman fee – £10,000;
 o Remuneration Committee Chairman fee – £10,000;
 o Nomination Committee Chairman fee – £5,000; and
 o Senior Independent Director fee – £7,000. 
The increases reflect the increasing demands and time commitment required in carrying out the various roles, and also recognise movements 
in market fee levels.
The fees for the non-executive Vice-Chairman are currently under review. These will continue to recognise his role as an international ambassador 
for the Company, but will be at a lower level than the £265,000 he received in 2015. Benefits will continue to be provided in addition to the fee.
Statement of shareholding voting at AGM
At the AGM held on 21 April 2015 there was one item of remuneration-related business, the Directors’ remuneration report, which received 
the following votes from shareholders:
Annual report on remuneration
Total number
 of votes % of votes cast
For 122,205,423 99.07%
Against 1,153,053 0.93%
Total votes cast (for and against) 123,358,476 100% 
Votes withheld* 1,932,595 –
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 125,291,071 –
* A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
Single total remuneration figure for each Director (audited)
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
Fixed pay Performance-related pay
Deferred Total
Benefits
1
 and interest/LTIP remuneration
£000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting Subtotal in 2015
Executives 
David Wild
2
510 14 50 574 669 – 669 1,243
Paul Doughty
3
181 8 27 216 – – – 216
Former Executives 
Sean Wilkins
4
24 1 2 27 – – – 27
Non-executives 
Stephen Hemsley 195 2 – 197 – – – 197
Colin Halpern
5
265 31 – 296 – – – 296
Helen Keays 41 – – 41 – – – 41
Ebbe Jacobsen 41 – – 41 – – – 41
Kevin Higgins 48 – – 48 – – – 48
Steve Barber
6
21 – – 21 – – – 21
Michael Shallow
7
33 – – 33 – – – 33
Total 1,359 56 79 1,494 669 – 669 2,163 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 continued
Single total remuneration figure for each Director (audited) continued
52 weeks ended 28 December 2014
Fixed pay Performance-related pay
Deferred Total
Benefits
1
 and interest/LTIP remuneration
£000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting Subtotal in 2014
Executives
David Wild
2
528 10 33 571 293 – 293 864
Former 
Executives
Sean Wilkins
4
275 14 25 314 – – – 314
Non-executives
Stephen Hemsley
8
241 2 – 243 – – – 243
Colin Halpern
5
265 31 – 296 – – – 296
Michael Shallow 51 – – 51 – – – 51
Helen Keays 39 – – 39 – – – 39
Ebbe Jacobsen
9
36 – – 36 – – – 36
Kevin Higgins
10
15 – – 15 – – – 15
Total 1,450 57 58 1,565 293 – 293 1,858
Prior year 
reported total
11
1,684 62 78 1,834 340 148 488 2,322
Notes:
1  The value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car allowance and, if applicable, health cover.
2  David Wild was appointed as Interim Chief Executive Officer on 31 January 2014 and Chief Executive Officer on 30 April 2014. Prior to his appointment as Interim 
Chief Executive Officer, he was a non-executive Director and thus received fees in relation to this role. During his time as Interim Chief Executive Officer he received a 
flat rate of £50,000 per month. This rate of pay had been set inclusive of benefits and pension. He was not eligible to participate in any of the Group’s incentive plans 
given the interim nature of the appointment. On his permanent appointment to Chief Executive Officer his salary was set at £500,000 per annum, increased in 2015 
by 2% in line with the workforce. David Wild was eligible to receive benefits and pension and participate in the incentive plans in line with the remuneration policy 
in force throughout the year.
3  Paul Doughty took up the position of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 8 June 2015 on an annual salary of £325,000 and was eligible to receive benefits and 
pension and participate in the incentive plans in line with the prevailing remuneration policy. He tendered his resignation on 19 November 2015 and stepped down 
from the Board as Chief Financial Officer shortly after the financial year-end, on 31 December 2015. He was not eligible for a bonus and did not receive any awards 
under the LTIP scheme.
4  Sean Wilkins was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in April 2014, on a salary of £275,000 and was eligible to receive benefits and pension and participate in the 
incentive plans in line with the remuneration policy. He stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 20 January 2015. Sean Wilkins was 
not eligible for a bonus in respect of 2015 performance.
5  Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company and for the 2015 financial year a management fee of £265,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in the year in 
respect of his services. A further benefit of £31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was also paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year. The same structure 
of payment of fees operated in 2014.
6  Steve Barber was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015.
7 Michael Shallow retired from the Board on 31 July 2015.
8  The annualised fee of the Chairman, Stephen Hemsley, was enhanced from £195,000 to £390,000 between 1 February 2014 and 30 April 2014. This increase in fee 
reflected the additional time commitment required in recognition of his enhanced role supporting the Interim Chief Executive Officer.
9 Ebbe Jacobsen was appointed to the Board on 31 January 2014.
10 Kevin Higgins was appointed to the Board on 8 September 2014.
11 As required by the Regulations, this row sets out the total reported in the remuneration report for the prior financial year.
Defined contribution pensions (audited)
Executive Directors receive up to 15% of salary from the Company, either as contributions to a personal pension fund or in cash. In the year ended 
27 December 2015 this totalled £50,000 for David Wild. Sean Wilkins and Paul Doughty received £2,000 and £27,000 respectively during their 
service as Executive Directors in the financial year.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Details of variable pay earned in the year 
Annual bonus plan
The incentive for the financial year ended 27 December 2015 was in the form of a bonus based on performance against a combination of financial targets, 
specifically a significant increase in the Group’s underlying PBT, and non-financial targets, incentivising a number of the Company’s strategic priorities.
The CEO had a bonus opportunity of up to 150% of salary in respect of the 2015 financial year.
Of this opportunity, 70% was linked to Group underlying PBT and operated on a banded basis, commencing at 20% for threshold levels of profit 
performance, 50% of bonus at target, with the full 100% only payable at stretch performance levels, being materially in excess of budget. 
2015 was a successful year for the Group, with the underlying PBT of £69.85m (including trading losses in the German business) exceeding 
the maximum performance hurdle of £69.41m, and so resulting in a maximum payment for this element as shown below:
Performance hurdle Targets set for year (underlying PBT) Actual performance achieved Resulting bonus out-turn Resulting bonus payable
Growth in underlying profit before tax of 
between 95% of target (20% payout) and 
110% or more (full payout). Graduated scale 
operates between performance points
Threshold: £59.95m
Target: £63.1m
Maximum: £69.41m
Actual underlying PBT 
was £69.85m
100% of maximum £535,500
The non-financial targets set for the CEO, which accounted for 30% of his bonus opportunity, related to a number of key strategic objectives 
for 2015 which included:
 o Germany – reducing trading losses and deliver a strategic outcome;
 o Switzerland – move the business to profitability, improve management and gain board agreement on a strategic plan; and
 o succession – to build an executive team including potential CEO successors.
The Remuneration Committee’s assessment of performance against the above objectives concluded that there was good progress with these 
strategically-linked personal objectives and 17.5% points of the 30% forming this part of the bonus should be paid, equating to £133,875.
Payment of the bonus is subject to reaching a threshold level of profitability, and this underpin was met. Accordingly, David Wild is entitled to receive 
a bonus in respect of 2015 performance amounting to £669,375, equating to 87.5% of the maximum opportunity and c.131% of salary. Consistent 
with our policy, two-thirds of the bonus is payable in cash and the remaining one-third will be deferred in shares that vest after two years.
The other Executive Directors who held office for part of the 2015 financial year, Sean WIlkins and Paul Doughty, were not eligible to receive a bonus 
in light of their respective resignations.
Share awards granted during the year (audited)
Sharesave Plan
The Company operates an HMRC-registered Savings-Related Share Option Plan open to all UK employees with the required period of service. Under 
this arrangement, employees enter into a three-year savings contract for a fixed monthly amount and are granted an option, with the accumulated 
savings being used to fund the option exercise cost. As permitted by HMRC rules, a discount of 20% to the market price at the date of invitation 
is offered. Vesting of the option is subject only to continued service. An award was granted to David Wild during the year as follows:
Executive Date of grant Type of award Number of shares Option price Face value Vesting date
David Wild 29/04/15 Share option 2,816 639p £22,725 01/06/18
As explained above, the option price is at a 20% discount to the closing share price on 7 April 2015, the day before invitations to apply for options 
were issued. Face value is calculated using the closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant of 807p.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
Bonuses payable to Executive Directors are settled two thirds in cash and one third in shares, the receipt of the latter being deferred for two years. 
A prohibited period existing throughout 2015 because of ongoing negotiations in relation to the German business, the successful conclusion of which 
was announced to the market on 15 December 2015. As a result the share-settled deferred portion of the CEO’s 2014 bonus could not be granted 
until December 2015. Given the delay caused by the prohibited period, the Remuneration Committee used discretions available to it under the rules 
of the DSBP to determine (a) that the strike price used to calculate the number of shares comprised in the award should be the closing mid-market 
quote of 730p for the Company’s shares on 26 February 2015 and (b) that the Normal Vesting Date should be 27 February 2017; in each case this 
would have been the case if this award had been made as originally intended and at the first opportunity. The strike price was used to determine 
the face value in the table below.
DSBP Basis of award Face value Number of shares Vesting date
David Wild 33.33% of ABP value £97,572 13,366 27/02/17
This award, which is structured as a nil-cost option, vests subject to continuous employment and no other performance criteria. Dividend equivalents 
will become payable on exercise. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 58
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Share awards granted during the year (audited) continued
LTIP awards 
The 2015 grant of performance shares was also delayed by the prohibited period relating to the German transaction. Details of the LTIP grant made 
on 21 December 2015 are summarised below:
Number of awards Face value of Face value of award Vesting % at Performance Performance
Executive Date of grant Type of award granted award * as % of salary threshold period conditions
David Wild 21/12/15 Conditional 
Award of shares
75,893 £765,001 150% 10%–15% Three financial 
years from
2014 to 2017
50%: EPS 
growth 
50%: RTSR
* Based on a share price of 1008p per share averaged over 14-18 December 2015, the five dealing days preceding the date of grant. 
Dividend equivalents will be payable on the number of awards that ultimately vest.
50%: EPS performance
Half the awards may vest subject to growth in the Company’s adjusted EPS on the following basis:
Three-year adjusted earnings per share (‘EPS’) Vesting (% of EPS part of award)
Below 30% 0%
30% 10%
40% 45%
50% 80%
60% 100%
Straight-line vesting in between the performance points
50%: Relative TSR performance
The remaining half of awards may vest based on the following vesting schedule based on the Company’s TSR performance measures against 
the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) over three financial years:
Ranking of the Company’s TSR Vesting (% of TSR part of award) 
Below median 0%
Median 15%
Upper quartile 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between median and upper quartile
Awards held in the year (audited)
Details of options and conditional awards over shares held by Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Date from which
Outstanding Granted/ Outstanding Exercise exercisable/
shares at awarded in Exercised/ Lapsed shares at 27 price capable 
Plan 28 December 2014 2015 (number) vested (number) (number) December 2015 (pence) Date of grant of vesting
David Wild
LTIP 180,505 – – – 180,505 n/a 30/05/14 30/05/17
LTIP (additional 
award) 135,379 – – – 135,379 n/a 30/05/14 30/05/17
Sharesave – 2,816 – – 2,816 639 29/04/15 01/06/18
DSBP – 13,366 – – 13,366 n/a 21/12/15 27/02/17
LTIP – 75,893 – – 75,893 n/a 21/12/15 21/12/18
Sean Wilkins
LTIP 99,277 – – 99,277 – n/a 30/05/14 30/05/17
LTIP (additional 
award) 49,638 – – 49,638 – n/a 30/05/14 30/05/17
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued employment. DSBP and Sharesave awards vest 
subject to continued employment only.
As outlined in the 2014 Directors’ remuneration report, Sean Wilkins stepped down from the Board and ceased to be an employee of the Company 
on 20 January 2015, at which point his outstanding share awards lapsed in full. Throughout Paul Doughty’s service as an Executive Director, the 
Company was in a prohibited period relating to the German transaction, which prevented any LTIP awards being granted to him. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 59
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Dilution limits
The Company operates within best practice guidelines published by the Investment Association. These broadly provide that where new-issue shares are 
used to satisfy awards made under employee share schemes, the aggregate number of shares placed under award (disregarding any awards which have 
lapsed) across all such schemes operated by the Company should not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in any 10-year rolling period. 
Termination payments (audited)
Sean Wilkins left the Company on 20 January 2015 and received a termination payment, as explained in the 2014 Directors’ remuneration report.
Michael Shallow retired from the Board on 31 July 2015. As a Non-executive Director, he was not employed and no termination payments were 
made to him.
Shortly after the year-end, Paul Doughty resigned as an Executive Director and ceased to be an employee of the Company, both on 31 December 2015. 
He had been paid up to that date and no further payments were or are due to him. As explained elsewhere in this report, he was not eligible for a 
2015 bonus payment and had not been granted any LTIP awards. 
Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
To reinforce the linkage between senior executives and shareholders, the Company has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to Executive 
Directors under its long-term incentive arrangements. The Executive Directors are required to retain sufficient shares from the vesting of awards to 
build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of their base salary. It is expected that the required shareholding 
will be built up over a maximum of five years. The Committee has discretion to waive the shareholding requirement in exceptional circumstances. 
Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when determining the grant of future awards. 
The Committee has decided that awards made under the DSBP shall count (assuming the sale of sufficient shares to fund the employee’s tax 
and NI obligations) towards this target. 
Conditional shares Share options
Legally owned Legally owned subject to not subject to
shares at shares at performance performance Market value
27 December 2015 28 December conditions conditions of shareholding
(or earlier date of cessation) 2014 (2012 LTIP) (DSBP/Sharesave) as a % of salary
1
Executive Directors
David Wild 4,550 4,550 391,777 16,182 23%
Non-executive Directors
Stephen Hemsley
2
600,000 600,000 – – n/a
Colin Halpern
3
557,900 557,900 – – n/a
Helen Keays – – – – n/a
Ebbe Jacobsen – – – – n/a
Kevin Higgins – – – – n/a
Steve Barber
4
– n/a – – n/a
Former Directors 
Sean Wilkins
5
– – – 
Paul Doughty
6
– n/a – – –
Michael Shallow
5
48,000 48,000 – – n/a
Notes:
1  Based on share price of 1020p prevailing at end of the financial year, the number of shares in which the Director has a beneficial interest and calculated on the salary 
paid in the year.
2  600,000 ordinary shares (2014: 600,000) are held by The Stephen Hemsley Trusts No. 5, discretionary trust of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are 
potential beneficiaries. 
3  557,900 ordinary shares (2014: 557,900) are held by HS Real LLC. HS Real LLC is owned by a discretionary trust, the beneficiaries of which are the adult children 
of Colin and Gail Halpern. 
4  Steve Barber was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2015.
5 Sean Wilkins and Michael Shallow left the Board on 20 January 2015 and 31 July 2015 respectively.
6 Paul Doughty had resigned as an employee during the financial year, and resigned as a Director subsequent to the year-end on 31 December 2015. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 60
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual report on remuneration continued
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
CEO remuneration
Total
remuneration Annual bonus LTIP vesting
Year ended Chief Executive Officer £000 (% of max) (% of max)
27 December 2015 David Wild 1,243 87.5% –
28 December 2014 David Wild 864 58.6% –
29 December 2013* Lance Batchelor 532 0% –
30 December 2012 Lance Batchelor 852 50% –
25 December 2011 Lance Batchelor 256 60% –
25 December 2011 Chris Moore 630 60% 100%
26 December 2010 Chris Moore 809 100% 100%
27 December 2009 Chris Moore 672 100% 100%
*  Lance Batchelor resigned as CEO on 16 March 2014. David Wild assumed the position of Interim CEO on 31 January 2014 and his appointment as the Group’s CEO was formally 
confirmed on 30 April 2014. For comparative purposes the total remuneration shown for the year ended 28 December 2014 includes remuneration received in both roles.
Given that the CEO was appointed in the 2014 financial year, he did not have any long-term incentive awards vesting based on performance periods 
ending during the 2015 financial year. The first LTIP awards were granted to him in 2014 and these are expected to vest in the 2017 financial year. 
Total shareholder return
The graph below illustrates the Company’s TSR performance over the seven financial years to 27 December 2015, plotted against the TSR 
performance of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. 
TSR reflects movements in the share price, adjusted for capital events and assuming all dividends are reinvested on the ex-dividend date. The FTSE 
250 Index (excluding investment trusts) has been selected for this comparison because (i) this is the index in which the Company’s shares have been 
quoted since admission to the Official List and (ii) it forms the comparator group for the TSR performance condition used in the Group’s 2012 LTIP. 
The graph shows the value, at 27 December 2015, of £100 invested in the Company on 28 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). The other points plotted are the values at the relevant financial year-ends.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
28 December 
2008
27 December 
2009
26 December 
2010
25 December 
2011
30 December 
2012
29 December 
2013
27 December 
2015
28 December 
2014
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Domino’s Pizza Group plc FTSE 250 (excl. investment trusts)
Total shareholder return (rebased) Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 61
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer
2015
%
Chief Executive Officer 
Salary 2.0
Benefits 40.0
Bonus 128.0
Average employee (on a per capita basis) 
Salary 0.1
Benefits 0.1
Bonus 29.8
The table above shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous 
financial year, and compares this to the equivalent year-on-year changes averaged across all Group employees and expressed on a per capita basis, 
which includes the impact of a 15% increase in headcount during the year. Pay for Group employees includes material proportions paid in Euros 
and Swiss Francs, and the translation into Pounds for the purposes of this year-on-year comparison includes exchange effects.
The apparent increase in the value of David Wild’s benefits year-on-year is skewed as he did not receive normal contractual benefits for the whole 
of 2014 since he served as Interim CEO for four months of that year.
The year-on-year change in David Wild’s bonus reflects the fact that the Company’s profit performance in 2014 fell short of target, whereas in 2015 
it exceeded the maximum level specified in the bonus plan.
Relative importance of spend on pay
2014
2015 (restated where necessary) % change
Staff costs (£m) 39.3 34.9 12.6
of which Directors’ pay (£m) 2.2 2.3 (4.3)
Dividends and share buybacks (£m) 31.0 29.7 4.3
Underlying PBT (£m) 73.2 62.1 17.9
Underlying PBT was chosen as a comparator as it reflects the profit generated by the Group’s continuing operations, virtually the whole of which leads to 
cash generation. This therefore creates the opportunity for the Board to reinvest in the Group’s business, or make distributions to shareholders, or both. 
It is the same comparator as used in prior years’ remuneration reports.
On behalf of the Board
Kevin Higgins
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2016  Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 62
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors’ report
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the statutory financial 
statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015. 
The Company has chosen in accordance with section 414C(11) 
of the Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future 
developments in the Strategic report (on pages 1 to 29), which includes 
the following:
 o Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5;
 o Chief Executive Officer’s statement on pages 6 to 9;
 o Description of the business structure, model, markets and strategy 
on pages 10 to 15;
 o the key performance indicators on pages 16 and 17;
 o the discussion of risk management, the table of principal risks and 
uncertainties and longer-term viability statement on pages 18 to 23;
 o the financial review on pages 24 to 25; and
 o the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Together, this information is intended to provide a fair, balanced and 
understandable analysis of the development and performance of the 
Group’s business during the year, and its position at the end of the year, 
its strategy, likely developments and any principal risks and 
uncertainties associated with the Group’s business. 
Details of the Group’s policy on addressing financial risks and details 
about financial instruments are shown in note 28 to the Group financial 
statements on pages 104 to 106.
The sections of the Annual Report dealing with corporate governance, 
the reports of the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee and the 
Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 32 to 61 inclusive are 
hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report. 
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8R, 
the required content of the ‘Management Report’ can be found in the 
strategic report and Directors’ report including the sections of the 
Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the information required to be 
disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R can be found in the following locations:
Section Topic Location 
(1) Interest capitalised Note 16 to
the accounts
(2) Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(4) Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
(5) Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
(6) Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
(7) Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
(8)  Item (7) in relation to major 
subsidiary undertakings
Not applicable
(9)  Parent participation in a placing 
by a listed subsidiary 
Not applicable
(10) Contracts of significance Directors’ report
(11)  Provision of services by 
a controlling shareholder
Not applicable
(12) Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors’ report
(13) Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors’ report
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated 
by reference into this Directors’ report.
Group results
The Group profit for the period from continuing operations after taxation was 
£59.3m (2014: £49.4m (restated)). This is after a taxation charge of £13.9m 
(2014: £12.7m (restated)) representing an effective tax rate of 19.0% 
(2014: 20.4% (restated)). The financial statements setting out the results 
of the Group for the period ended 27 December 2015 are shown on 
pages 73 to 119.
Dividends 
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.75p per 
Ordinary share, to be paid on 25 April 2016 to members on the Register 
at the close of business on 11 March 2016 (ex-dividend date 10 March 2016), 
subject to shareholder approval. Together with the interim dividend of 
9.00p per Ordinary share paid on 4 September 2015, the total dividend 
in respect of the period will be 20.75p compared with 17.50p for the 
previous year, an increase of 18.6%. 
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are 
paid or, in the case of the final dividend, when approved by shareholders. 
Therefore, the amount recognised in the 2015 accounts, as described 
in note 14 on page 94, comprises the 2014 final dividend and the 2015 
interim dividend.
Share capital
As at 27 December 2015, the Company’s authorised share capital was 
£4,000,000 divided into a single class of 256,000,000 Ordinary shares 
of 1.5625p each and there were 166,802,688 Ordinary shares in issue. 
All issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up. The Ordinary shares are 
listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated 
or uncertificated form. 
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they 
are corporations, corporate representatives who are entitled to attend 
general meetings and to exercise voting rights. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder 
of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder 
and has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the 
resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, 
in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against. This 
reflects the position in the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations 2009 which 
amended the Companies Act 2006. On a poll, every member present 
in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every 
Ordinary share held. None of the Ordinary shares carry any special 
voting rights with regard to control of the Company. The Articles specify 
deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies 
to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM. The relevant 
proxy votes are counted and the number for, against or withheld in 
relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published 
on the Company’s website after the meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the 
Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from time 
to time by the Articles, law or regulation and pursuant to the Listing Rules 
whereby certain Directors, officers and employees require approval to 
deal in Ordinary shares of the Company. The Group is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of Ordinary shares.
Shares held by employee share trusts 
The Group has had an employee benefit trust (‘EBT’) for a number 
of years, the trustee of which is Elian Fiduciary Services (Jersey) Limited. 
As at 27 December 2015, the EBT held 56,252 shares, which are used 
to satisfy awards under employee share schemes. The voting rights 
in relation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee; however, in 
accordance with best practice guidance, the trustee abstains from voting.  Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Shares held by employee share trusts continued
Dividend waivers 
A dividend waiver is in force in relation to shares in the Company held by 
the EBT (see previous paragraph), which relates to a total of 56,252 shares. 
Purchase of own shares
At the 2015 AGM, a special resolution was passed to authorise the 
Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 
10% of its Ordinary shares for the year under review. The Company 
engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash 
flows permit and there is no immediate alternative investment use for 
the funds. 
No buybacks were undertaken in 2015 as the Company was in a 
prohibited period caused by the transaction in relation to its German 
business, for most of that year.
Taking into account all of the buybacks since 2004, 16.6% of the 
Company’s issued Ordinary share capital has been purchased. 
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the 
forthcoming AGM, to be held on 20 April 2016. 
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 26 February 2016, the Company has been notified of the following 
interests in 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company:
% of total voting rights*
Wasatch Advisors 3.03
Montanaro Investment Managers 3.01
* Using the total voting rights figure applicable at 31 January 2016 of 166,424,830. 
Except for the above, the Group is not aware of any shareholders 
with interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company. 
The Company has not been notified of any other changes to the notifiable 
voting rights in its shares up to 26 February 2016.
Directors and their interests
The Directors in service at 27 December 2015 were Stephen Hemsley, 
David Wild, Paul Doughty, Colin Halpern, Helen Keays, Ebbe Jacobsen, 
Kevin Higgins and Steve Barber.
Sean Wilkins and Paul Doughty resigned as Executive Directors on 
20 January 2015 and on 31 December 2015 respectively. After 10 years, 
Michael Shallow retired as an independent non-executive Director on 
31 July 2015. 
On 1 July 2015, Steve Barber was appointed as an independent 
non-executive Director of the Company. The biographical details of the 
present Directors are set out on page 31 of this Annual Report.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Articles 
of the Company, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies 
Act 2006 and related legislation. Subject to the Articles of Association, 
the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, 
the business of the Company is managed by the Board which may 
exercise all the powers of the Company. 
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of 
the Company, along with details of options and awards held by Executive 
Directors, are contained in the Directors’ remuneration report set out on 
pages 41 to 61. Should any Ordinary shares be required to satisfy awards 
over shares, these may be provided by the EBT.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors, including 
share options and awards, in the share capital of the Company between 
the year-end and 26 February 2016. No Directors have a beneficial 
interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has clear procedures 
for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the 
whole Board for authorisation as necessary. All new conflicts are 
required to be disclosed as and when they arise. There is an annual 
review of conflicts disclosed and authorisations given. The register 
of Directors’ conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary. 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in the 
Articles of Association. The provision, which is a qualifying third-party 
indemnity provision (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 
2006), was in force during the year ended 27 December 2015 and 
remains in force and relates to certain losses and liabilities which the 
Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors 
or employees of the Company. 
The Group maintained a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy 
throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the event that 
Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
No indemnity is provided for the Group’s auditor.
Employees
UK and ROI 
In the UK and ROI, the Group employed 555 people as at 
27 December 2015 (2014: 504). 
Head Office – United Kingdom 186
Milton Keynes Supply Chain Centre 261
Penrith Supply Chain Centre 69
Naas Supply Chain Centre 39
Germany
In Germany, the Group employed 306 people as at 27 December 2015 
(2014: 196).
German Head Office 21
German Supply Chain Centre 10
German corporate stores 275
Switzerland
In Switzerland, the Group employed 296 people as at 27 December 2015 
(2014: 242).
Swiss Head Office 11
Swiss corporate stores 285
For further details please refer to note 8 on page 89.
Employment policies
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment. 
The Group recruits and selects applicants for employment based solely 
on a person’s qualifications and suitability for the position, whilst bearing 
in mind equality and diversity. It is the Group’s policy to recruit the most 
capable person available for each position. The Group recognises the 
need to treat all employees honestly and fairly. The Group is committed 
to ensuring that its employees feel respected and valued and are able 
to fulfil their potential and recognises that the success of the business 
relies on their skill and dedication.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular 
aptitudes and abilities. Efforts are made to continue the employment 
of those who become disabled during their employment. 
For more information on the Company’s employment practices please 
see page 28. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 64
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors’ report continued
General information
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on 20 April 2016 
at the Company’s Supply Chain Centre, 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, 
Milton Keynes MK6 4BB is contained in a separate shareholder circular. 
Full details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in that document. 
The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM 
are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole. 
The Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend 
that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
Significant agreements and change of control provisions
The Group judges that the only significant agreements in relation to its 
business are the UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement, the Know 
How Licence Agreement and the Switzerland, Luxembourg and 
Liechtenstein Master Franchise Agreement (and, throughout 2015, 
the Germany Master Franchise Agreement), pursuant to which certain 
of the Group’s companies are granted the right to franchise stores 
and operate commissaries in the territories by DPIF.
The Group’s significant agreements listed above do not terminate on 
a change of control. The Group does not have agreements with any 
Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the 
Group’s employee share schemes may cause options and awards granted 
to employees, including Directors to vest on a change of control. The 
Group’s banking arrangements do contain change of control provisions 
which, if triggered, could limit future utilisations, require the repayment 
of existing utilisations or lead to a renegotiation of terms.
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association remained unchanged during the 2015 financial 
year and may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting 
of the shareholders. 
Branches
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited (a subsidiary company of the 
Company) continued to operate via a branch in Germany, Domino’s 
Pizza Deutschland, during 2015.
Environmental and social responsibility 
and GHG emissions
The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and 
recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect the 
environment and the social wellbeing of others. Details of the Group’s 
approach to these issues and emissions attributable to all activities are 
set out in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Political donations 
The Company made no political donations in the year (2014: £nil).
Key performance indicators (‘KPIs’)
Details of the Group’s KPIs can be found on pages 16 and 17. 
Auditor
EY has signified its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the 
Company and the Group is satisfied that EY is independent and there 
are adequate safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity. A resolution 
to re-appoint EY as the Company’s auditor will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Directors’ statement of disclosure of information to auditor
Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, so far 
as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Group’s auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps he/
she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditor 
is aware of that information.
Going concern
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 
the strategic report on pages 1 to 29. The financial position of the 
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the financial review on pages 24 to 25. In addition, notes 
28 and 29 to the Group financial statements include the Company’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial 
risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date
On 1 February 2016, the Group completed a transaction to form a joint 
venture with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises (‘DPE’) (the ‘JV’) and for the 
JV to acquire Germany’s largest pizza delivery business Joey’s Pizza 
for consideration of up to €79m. In the context of this transaction, the 
Group has now either sold its existing German operations to the JV or 
has earmarked these for closure. The Group is required to provide certain 
transitional support services to the JV during the period immediately 
following the sale. The Group owns a one-third stake in the JV.
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements. 
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance; rather, they are based on current views and assumptions 
as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and are made by the 
Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the 
time of their approval of this report. These statements should be treated 
with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any 
such forward-looking information. The Group undertakes no obligation 
to update these forward-looking statements.
By order of the Board
Rob Bellhouse
Company Secretary
2 March 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 65
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements 
(Group and Company) in accordance with applicable UK laws and 
regulations. UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have 
prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’) 
and applicable UK law. Further, they have elected to prepare the Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards 
(UK GAAP) and applicable UK law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they are a true and fair view of the Group 
and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 o select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 
(Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors) 
and then apply them consistently;
 o present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which 
presents relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 o provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
Group’s financial position and financial performance; and
 o state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 o select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
 o make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 o state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
 o prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
Annual Report and Accounts and financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for the system 
of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the 
Company’s website. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
website. Information published on the Company’s website is accessible 
in many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out 
on pages 30 and 31, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge, they 
have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and 
that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities and financial position and profit of the Group and the Company 
and of the Group’s income statement for that period. In addition, each of the 
Directors confirms that the strategic report represented by the Directors’ 
report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and Group, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Having taken advice 
from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
that it provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess 
the Company’s and Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
David Wild
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 66
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
What we have audited
Domino’s Pizza Group plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 27 December 2015
Balance sheet as at 
27 December 2015
Consolidated income statement 
for the 52 week period then ended
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the 
52 week period then ended
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity for the 52 week 
period then ended
Statement of changes in equity 
for the 52 week period then ended 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
for the 52 week period then ended
Related notes 1 to 37 
to the financial statements
Related notes 1 to 9 
to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable 
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 o the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 27 December 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended;
 o the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 o the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
 o the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality o Overall Group materiality of £3.7m which represents 5% of Profit before taxation from continuing operations.
Audit scope o We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures 
on specific balances for a further 4 components.
 o The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of Profit 
before tax from continuing operations, 99% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
 o The components subject to review scope covered the remainder (less than 1% of Profit before taxation 
from continuing operations/Revenue and 1% total assets).
Risks of material misstatement o Classification of discontinued operations and completeness of restructuring provisions in respect 
of the exit from the German business.
 o Adequacy of disclosure of tax treatment of reversionary interest share-based compensation schemes.
 o Susceptibility to management override in recharging expenditure incurred by the Group to the National Advertising Fund.
 o Recognition of revenue in incorrect periods and susceptibility to management override through manual journals.
 o Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets of the business in Switzerland.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the 
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit 
and in forming our audit opinion. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually 
or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. 
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent 
of our audit procedures (ISA 320).
We determined initial materiality for the Group to be £3.4m 
(2014: £2.7m), which was 5% (2014: 5%) of profit before taxation. 
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality. Following 
the announcement in December 2015 of the discontinuance of the 
operations in Germany, we revised our materiality basis from profit 
before taxation to profit before taxation from continuing operations 
and from £3.4m to £3.7m.
We use profit before taxation from continuing operations as reported 
by the Group to exclude the impact of discontinued operations 
which do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the group. 
This avoids inappropriate variations in our materiality as a result 
of non-recurring items. 
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. 
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements 
exceeds materiality (ISA 320).
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the 
Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that performance 
materiality should be set at 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning materiality, 
namely £1.8m (2014: £1.4m). We have maintained performance 
materiality at 50% reflecting the results of our testing of the Group’s 
systems and processes and historical audit findings. 
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit 
coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken 
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance 
materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and 
risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of 
the risk of material misstatement at each component. In the current 
year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components 
was £0.4m to £1.8m (2014: £0.3m to £1.2m). 
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered 
as being clearly trivial (ISA 450).
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.16m (2014: £0.1m), 
which was set at 5% of initial planning materiality, as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the 
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of 
other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The scope of our audit 
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation 
of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each component 
within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements. In determining audit scope we 
take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and 
effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment 
and other factors such as findings from third party assurance reviews 
when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
The Group manages its operations from a single location in the UK 
and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering 
all significant components. The audit of all in-scope components is 
performed by one audit team. The audit team includes tax specialists 
and valuation specialists. 
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial 
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of 
significant accounts in the financial statements, of the fifteen reporting 
components of the Group, we selected ten components covering entities 
within the UK, Ireland, Switzerland and Germany which represent the 
principal business units within the Group.
Of the ten components selected, we performed an audit of the complete 
financial information of six components (“full scope components”) which 
were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 
four components (“specific scope components”), we performed audit 
procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered 
had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in 
the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts 
or their risk profile.
Reporting
components where
we performed
audit procedures
Full
scope
Specific
scope
Other
procedures
Revenue 99%
(2014: 97%)
96% 3.5% 0.5% 
Profit before tax from 
continuing operations
99%
(2014: 101%)
102% (3%) 5% 
Total assets 97% 92% 5% 3%
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing 
of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed 
to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group. 
Of the remaining 6 components that together represent 1% of the Group’s 
Profit before tax from continuing operations; none are individually greater 
than 1% of the Group’s Profit before tax from continuing operations. For 
these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical 
review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations 
and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to potential 
risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year 
There were no changes to our scoping strategy from the prior year. 
 o Profit before taxation – £62.3m
 o Loss on discontinued operations before 
taxation – (£10.9m)
 o Profit before taxation from continuing 
operations £73.2m (materiality basis)
 o Materiality of £3.7m (5% of materiality basis)
Starting 
basis
Adjustments
Materiality Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 68
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which 
were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
New Risk This Year
Classification of discontinued operations 
and completeness of related restructuring 
provisions in respect of the exit from the 
German business
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 39); 
Accounting policies (page 78); and Note 12 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(page 92).
In December 2015, the Group announced 
it was exiting the German market. The Group 
entered into agreements to; acquire a 
non-controlling interest in a new company, 
controlled by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited, 
and to terminate its operations in Germany 
through disposal of stores and closure of 
residual infrastructure. The transaction 
completed on 1 February 2016.
The substance of the arrangements entered 
into required judgement in determining the 
classification of results as discontinued 
operations and assets and liabilities as 
held for sale.
The recognition of the provisions for restructuring 
costs associated with the termination of operations 
involved estimates based on future outcomes 
of commercial negotiations.
We inspected each of the sale and purchase 
contracts entered into by the Group to understand 
the substance of the arrangements. We examined 
these contracts to assess the degree of influence 
retained by the Group in the new investment to 
establish that the control of the German business 
had passed to the new entity. 
We have evaluated the appropriateness of the proposed 
presentation of the German business as a discontinued 
operation, in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. 
We examined management’s project plans to validate 
the commitment to terminate the business and the 
completeness of restructuring provisions. We tied 
through the losses for the year presented as 
discontinued operations to the German trial 
balance and consolidation adjustments 
to ensure they were complete.
We tested the corporate tax presented within 
discontinued operations to validate the appropriate 
calculation of tax had been recorded.
In respect of the restructuring provisions, we tested 
the provisions for redundancy costs by checking a 
sample of payments to redundancy contracts and 
cash disbursements.
We examined a sample of property leases to 
corroborate the estimates of future rental commitments 
used in the estimate of onerous lease provisions. 
We challenged the recognition of provisions 
in respect of future operating losses. 
We tested the valuation of a sample of assets 
to validate the completeness of the provisions 
for irrecoverable debtors.
The accounting for the impact of the 
transaction has been appropriately reflected 
in the financial statements with the German 
operations presented as discontinued 
during the year.
Assets held for sale at the balance sheet 
date represent those stores where the sale 
was considered highly probable.
The provisions for restructuring costs reflect 
conservative estimates of the Group’s 
liabilities arising from management’s action 
before the year-end.  Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
New Risk This Year
Reversionary interest share-based 
compensation schemes 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 39); 
Accounting policies (page 79).
Certain of the Group’s historic share-based 
compensation arrangements dating from 2003 
to 2010 involved the use of employee benefit 
trusts which provided award recipients with 
reversionary interests in the form of share 
appreciation rights. Significant judgement 
is required to determine the treatment of 
such compensation from an employment 
tax perspective. 
There is a risk that if HMRC were to reach a 
different judgement on the employment tax 
treatment of the compensation arrangements, 
this may give rise to material adverse income 
statement and/or cash flow variances.
The introduction of the extension of HMRC’s 
Advance Penalty Notice to now cover National 
Insurance Contributions, together with the 
perceived increase in HMRC’s focus on 
compensation schemes involving employee 
benefit trusts has led us to view this area 
as one of increased risk. 
We have inspected a sample of the compensation 
contracts to gain an understanding of the 
commercial purpose of the awards.
We have inspected professional advice in respect of 
the effectiveness of indemnity arrangements provided 
to the Group from award recipients to understand the 
impact of such agreements on the Group’s position.
We examined historic correspondence between HMRC 
and the Group to understand the latest views of HMRC 
on management’s tax treatment of the awards.
We have involved our remuneration tax specialists to 
support us in corroborating the advice provided to 
the Group by the Group’s tax advisers with regard to 
the effectiveness of the design and implementation 
of the schemes. We corroborated our understanding 
of the advice given to the Group by interviewing the 
Group’s tax advisers.
We have considered the disclosure presented in the 
notes to the accounts to ensure that it is consistent 
with management’s judgements in respect of the tax 
treatment of the schemes.
Until the Group receives confirmation of 
HMRC’s position regarding the non-taxable 
treatment of the schemes there remains 
uncertainty as to the extent, if any, of the 
Group’s exposure to employment taxes 
in respect of the schemes.
The disclosure of the significant judgement 
within the accounting policies note is consistent 
with the advice provided to the Group by 
its advisers and existing market practice.
New Risk This Year
National Advertising Fund expenditure
Refer to the Accounting policies (page 83); 
and Note 23 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (page 101).
Franchisees pay contributions which are 
collected by the Group for specific use within 
the National Advertising Fund (‘NAF’). The fund 
is operated by the Group on behalf of franchisees 
with the objective of driving revenues for their 
stores. Total contributions made to the NAF for 
the 52 week period amounted to £41.8m and 
the NAF balance at 27 December 2015 was a 
creditor of £0.3m (2014: net debtor of £1.6m). 
The NAF is governed by a framework. The 
description of activities to be expensed against 
the fund is such that judgement is required to 
determine the appropriateness of the nature 
and extent of costs to be recharged from the 
Group to the fund. The recharging of expenditure 
incurred by the Group on behalf of the NAF is 
susceptible to management override through 
inappropriate expenditure being charged to 
the National Advertising Fund (NAF).
We inspected the franchise agreement framework to 
determine the extent of influence that the Group has 
over the use of the resources held by the NAF to 
determine whether it should be consolidated with 
the Group’s accounts.
We performed testing to confirm that costs charged 
to the fund are permitted costs under the fund rules 
by selecting a sample of expenses and corroborating 
to supporting documentation.
We identified manual journals posted to the NAF 
fund, and where significant, understood the rationale 
for the journal entry and agreed the journals to 
relevant supporting documentation.
We performed a proof in total of credits to the NAF 
based upon a fixed percentage of system sales. 
System sales were substantively tested by selecting 
a sample of items to test to supporting documentation.
The franchisees’ ability to control the use 
of the resources in the NAF supports the 
Group’s judgement not to consolidate the 
income and expenditure of the NAF.
Due to the existing agreement being a 
framework, judgement is required for all 
items that are recharged to the NAF. We 
did not identify expenses which had been 
inappropriately expensed against the NAF. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 70
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Revenue recognition
Refer to the Accounting policies (page 84); 
and Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (page 86).
Total Group revenue is £316.9m (2014: £288.7m). 
The Group’s significant revenue streams include 
royalties, corporate store sales, sales to 
franchisees and rental income.
We continue to assess revenue recognition as 
an area of audit risk which has a significant 
effect on our audit strategy and our allocation 
of resources. 
There is a risk of misstatement of revenue 
through cut off errors at the year-end arising 
from the recording of transactions in incorrect 
periods and susceptibility to management 
override through recording of inappropriate 
manual journals.
We performed detailed testing over revenue 
recognition as follows:
Through the execution of our testing procedures 
we have ensured that revenue across each of the 
Group’s significant revenue streams was appropriately 
recognised in accordance with IFRS. 
We performed detailed testing on a sample of sales 
transactions across the year and across each significant 
revenue stream tracing from origination through to 
the general ledger to ensure that the revenue was 
appropriately recorded and to address the risk 
of cut off.
We performed data analysis techniques to understand 
the flow of revenue transactions in the general ledger. 
In addition, we performed substantive analytical 
procedures using the inter-relationship of system 
sales, royalty income and sales to franchisees to 
analyse movements in revenue year on year. 
We performed specific cut off procedures to 
test transactions around the year-end and verified 
to originating documentation that the sales 
transactions and franchisee incentives 
were recorded in the correct period.
We performed procedures to understand the 
nature of key franchisee incentives. We tested 
a sample of incentives in respect of rebates and 
rent-free periods by confirming the calculation and 
payment was in line with the respective franchisee 
incentive agreement. In addition, we performed 
franchisee circularisation to confirm the completeness 
of provisions for rebates at the year-end.
We performed full and specific scope audit 
procedures over this risk area in 7 locations, 
which covered 99% of the risk amount.
Revenue was recognised in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policies and 
no matters in respect of cut off around 
the year-end were identified. 
In addition, there were no matters 
identified in respect of inappropriate 
manual journals impacting revenue. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee
Risk of Impairment in Switzerland
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 39); 
Accounting policies (page 82); and Note 15 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(page 95).
Given the continued losses made by the Swiss 
business, there is an increased risk of impairment. 
There is a high degree of management judgement 
in assessing the potential impairment of the 
goodwill and assets relating to the 
Switzerland business. 
Goodwill and Intangibles of £3.9m (2014: £3.9m) 
is included in the consolidated balance sheet 
in respect of the Swiss business. In addition, 
property, plant and equipment with a carrying 
value of £5.4m (2014: £2.6m) relate to the 
operations in Switzerland.
We obtained the impairment analysis performed 
by management and compared the consistency 
of the current year methodology to prior year. 
We performed testing over the impairment analysis 
for logical and arithmetic accuracy and to ensure 
that it has been prepared in line with the guidance 
provided in IAS36. 
We performed a retrospective review of forecasts in 
order to identify bias within management’s assumptions. 
In addition we performed an assessment of historic 
performance against budgets to gain assurance over 
the accuracy of management’s forecasting process.
We performed procedures to obtain an understanding 
of the underlying assumptions made in the forecasts 
and corroborated the appropriateness of these 
assumptions with evidence. 
The key assumptions included:
 o Discount rate
 o Long-term growth rate
The reasonableness of these key assumptions were 
tested through challenging the Group’s detailed 
calculations. In respect of the discount rate, an 
independent assessment was made by our experts 
based on general market indicators. We performed 
sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions within 
the impairment model.
The cash flow projections prepared by 
management support the carrying value of 
the goodwill and intangible assets held in 
respect of Domino’s Swiss business. The 
headroom in the value in use model has 
decreased compared to the prior year.
In performing sensitivity testing over the 
key assumptions we concluded there to 
be sufficient headroom.
The CGU’s for the purposes of assessing 
impairment over property, plant and 
equipment were assessed at the individual 
store level, consistent with prior periods. 
The cash flow projections prepared by 
management supported the carrying values 
of the stores with one immaterial exception.
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material 
misstatement in relation to manipulation of reported earnings with 
particular focus on the areas of judgement over property-related and 
other provisions and the classification of exceptional items in determining 
non-GAAP measures of profitability. In the current year, no risk over the 
classification of exceptional items was identified as no such items were 
reported in the current year. No risk of material misstatement in relation 
to property-related and other procedures was identified as the amounts 
were not considered material to the financial statements to meet the 
definition of a significant risk. 
In the prior year, the risk of misstatement relating to revenue recognition 
specified, in addition to cut off errors, the risk of inappropriate accounting 
for deductions from revenue related to franchisee incentives, such as 
rebates, rent-free periods and variable credit terms. There is not a high 
degree of estimation in the calculation of these items and based on 
historical audit findings and our current audit work, we no longer 
consider it an area of significant risk.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 o the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 o the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 72
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report is: 
 o materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 o apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
 o otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies 
between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s 
performance, business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately 
addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider 
should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 o adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 o the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 o certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 o we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
 o the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 64, and longer-term 
viability, set out on page 23; and
 o the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance 
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw 
attention to in relation to:
 o the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 o the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are 
being managed or mitigated;
 o the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a 
period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 o the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects 
of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the 
entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or 
to draw attention to.
Christopher Voogd (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Birmingham
2 March 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group income statement
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
52 weeks ended
52 weeks ended 28 December
27 December 2014 
2015 Total
Total (restated)
Continuing operations Notes £000 £000
Revenue 3 316,788 288,691
Cost of sales (193,171) (180,202)
Gross profit 123,617 108,489
Distribution costs (18,949) (16,021)
Administrative costs (33,211) (31,184)
71,457 61,284
Share of post-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 1,724 1,047
Operating profit 5 73,181 62,331
Other gains and losses 7 – 1,147
Profit before interest and taxation 73,181 63,478
Finance income 9 362 620
Finance expense 10 (380) (1,996)
Profit before taxation 73,163 62,102
Taxation 11 (13,874) (12,745)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 59,289 49,357
Discontinued operations
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (9,626) (6,619)
Profit for the year attributable to the Company 49,663 42,738
Earnings per share 
From continuing operations
– Basic (pence) 13 35.7 29.8
– Diluted (pence) 13 35.2 29.6
From continuing and discontinued operations
– Basic (pence) 13 29.9 25.9
– Diluted (pence) 13 29.5 25.8 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 74
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Total Total
£000 £000
Profit for the period 49,663 42,738
Other comprehensive expense:
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (852) (188)
Other comprehensive expense for the period, net of tax to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (852) (188)
Total comprehensive income for the period 48,811 42,550
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent 48,811 42,750
Non-controlling interests – (200)
48,811 42,550
Group statement of comprehensive income
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group balance sheet
at 27 December 2015
At
At 28 December
27 December 2014
2015 (restated)
Notes £000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 12,000 10,561
Property, plant and equipment 16 58,566 57,374
Prepaid operating lease charges 17 1,010 1,072
Trade and other receivables 18 7,107 5,618
Net investment in finance leases 19 1,209 1,285
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 7,985 7,170
Deferred tax asset 11 7,851 8,507
95,728 91,587
Current assets
Inventories 21 6,208 4,826
Prepaid operating lease charges 17 194 198
Trade and other receivables 18 28,747 34,735
Net investment in finance leases 19 774 900
Cash and cash equivalents 22 52,860 33,743
Assets classified as held for sale 12 935 –
89,718 74,402
Total assets 185,446 165,989
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (52,912) (47,523)
Deferred income (4,312) (4,584)
Financial liabilities 24 (988) (16,054)
Deferred and contingent consideration 25 (2,865) (3,841)
Current tax liabilities (4,151) (5,072)
Provisions 27 (6,113) (1,270)
(71,341) (78,344)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (316) –
Financial liabilities 24 (11,450) (6,731)
Deferred income (3,334) (2,938)
Deferred and contingent consideration 25 – (2,483)
Deferred tax liabilities 11 (115) (95)
Provisions 27 (1,215) (2,000)
Total liabilities (87,771) (92,591)
Net assets 97,675 73,398
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 30 2,606 2,592
Share premium account 29,155 25,597
Capital redemption reserve 425 425
Capital reserve – own shares (2,238) (2,238)
Currency translation reserve (280) 572
Retained earnings 68,007 46,450
Total equity shareholders’ funds 97,675 73,398
David Wild
Director
2 March 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 76
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Capital
Share Capital reserve – Currency Equity Non-
Share premium redemption own translation Other Retained shareholders’ controlling Total
capital account reserve shares reserve reserve earnings funds interests equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 29 December 2013 2,570 20,156 425 (1) 760 3,432 37,236 64,578 (4,424) 60,154
Profit for the period – – – – – – 42,938 42,938 (200) 42,738
Other comprehensive 
expense – exchange 
differences – – – – (188) – – (188) – (188)
Total comprehensive (expense)/ 
income for the period – – – – (188) – 42,938 42,750 (200) 42,550
Proceeds from share issues 8 2,023 – – – – – 2,031 – 2,031
Issue of ordinary shares 
on acquisition of 
non-controlling interest 14 3,418 – – – (3,432) – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – – (2,237) – – – (2,237) – (2,237)
Share transaction charges – – – – – – (142) (142) – (142)
Vesting of LTIP grants – – – – – – (2,769) (2,769) – (2,769)
Tax on employee share options – – – – – – 392 392 – 392
Share options and LTIP charge – – – – – – 899 899 – 899
Equity dividends paid – – – – – – (27,480) (27,480) – (27,480)
Acquisition of 
non-controlling interest – – – – – – (4,624) (4,624) 4,624 –
At 28 December 2014 2,592 25,597 425 (2,238) 572 – 46,450 73,398 – 73,398
Profit for the period – – – – – – 49,663 49,663 – 49,663
Other comprehensive 
expense – exchange differences – – – – (852) – – (852) – (852)
Total comprehensive (expense)/ 
income for the period – – – – (852) – 49,663 48,811 – 48,811
Proceeds from share issues 14 3,558 – – – – – 3,572 – 3,572
Share transaction charges – – – – – – (8) (8) – (8)
Tax on employee share options – – – – – – 1,580 1,580 – 1,580
Share options and LTIP charge – – – – – – 1,328 1,328 – 1,328
Equity dividends paid – – – – – – (31,006) (31,006) – (31,006)
At 27 December 2015 2,606 29,155 425 (2,238) (280) – 68,007 97,675 – 97,675
Group statement of changes in equity
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group cash flow statement
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
52 weeks
52 weeks ended
ended 28 December
27 December 2014
2015 (restated)
Notes £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the period 49,663 42,738
Income tax expense 13,501 11,059
Net finance costs 17 1,375
Share of post-tax profits of associates 20 (1,724) (1,047)
Amortisation and depreciation 15,16,17 6,779 5,824
Impairment 326 1,036
Loss/(profit) on disposal of non-current assets 84 (1,147)
Share option and LTIP charge 1,328 899
Increase in inventories (1,402) (616)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 1,804 (1,626)
Increase in payables 5,775 11,447
Increase/(decrease) in deferred income 131 (339)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 4,091 (1,100)
Cash generated from operations 80,373 68,503
UK corporation tax paid (10,922) (7,499)
Overseas corporation tax paid (476) (612)
Net cash generated by operating activities 68,975 60,392
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 191 186
Dividends received from associates 490 45
Decrease in loans to associates and joint ventures 542 582
Decrease in loans to franchisees 2,174 3,275
Payments to acquire finance lease assets (93) (741)
Receipts from repayment of franchisee leases 1,288 1,121
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (6,763) (4,412)
Deferred consideration for Domino’s Leasing Limited 25 (3,517) (1,208)
Purchase of other non-current assets (5,267) (2,532)
Receipts from the sale of other non-current assets – 1,059
Settlement of deferred consideration – (132)
Net cash used by investing activities (10,955) (2,757)
Cash inflow before financing 58,020 57,635
Cash flow from financing activities
Interest paid (278) (807)
Issue of ordinary share capital 3,572 2,038
Purchase of own shares – (2,243)
Payments under LTIP schemes (8) (2,914)
New bank loans and facilities draw down 5,657 31,912
Repayment of borrowings (16,329) (56,253)
Equity dividends paid (31,006) (27,480)
Net cash used by financing activities (38,392) (55,747)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 19,628 1,888
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 33,743 31,597
Foreign exchange gain on cash and cash equivalents (511) 258
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 52,860 33,743 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 78
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2016 
and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by David Wild. The Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom 
under the Companies Act 2006 (registration number 03853545). The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, 
West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB. The Company’s Ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FCA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted 
by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 27 December 2015.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial 
statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The accounting 
policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except when otherwise indicated.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Please refer to the Directors’ report for further details.
Amounts reclassified
As at 28 December 2014, quarterly rent in advance received from franchisees of £4,548,000 has been reclassified within current deferred income 
to better represent the nature of the liability, having previously been disclosed as part of accruals within current trade and other payables. 
As at 28 December 2014, some credit balances in respect of rent-free periods received from landlords and payable to franchisees have been 
reclassified, resulting in an increase of £1,039,000 in non-current deferred income and £247,000 in current deferred income; previously 
£1,039,000 of these amounts were netted within non-current trade and other receivables and £247,000 in current trade and other receivables. 
These adjustments had no effect on the income statement of the respective periods.
Discontinued operations
In the Group’s financial statements, the results and cash flows of discontinued operations are presented separately from those of continuing operations. 
An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a component of the Group that (i) has been disposed of, or meets the criteria to be classified as held 
for sale, and (ii) represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations or will be disposed of as part of a single coordinated 
plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position of the Group:
 o IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities: The new standard covers the disclosures that were previously required in consolidated 
financial statements under IAS 27 consolidated and separate financial statements as well as those included in IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures 
and IAS 28 Investments in associates. A number of additional disclosures are required by this new standard in respect of the Group’s 
associates and joint ventures. See note 20 for further information;
 o IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements: The new standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of which entities are 
controlled and are required to be consolidated. This standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements 
that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements. The new standard did not have an impact on the financial position or 
performance of the Group;
 o IFRS 11 Joint arrangements: The new standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled entities – non-monetary 
contributions by ventures. The standard defines contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement and the accounting for joint 
operations and joint ventures. The new standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group;
 o IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, and IFRS 12 Disclosure of 
Interests in Other Entities, IAS 28 Investments in Associates, has been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and 
describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates. The new standard did not have an 
impact on the financial position or performance of the Group;
 o amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Assets and Liabilities (effective 1 January 2014): These amendments clarify the meaning of ‘currently legally 
enforceable right to set-off’ to reinforce that a right to setoff must not be contingent on any future event, including counterparty default or bankruptcy. 
The Group does not have any significant offsetting financial instruments; 
 o IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies (effective 1 January 2014): The interpretation clarifies when an entity recognises a liability for a levy imposed by 
Government in accordance with legislation (other than taxes and fines or other penalties). The adoption of the amendment has no impact on the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements; and
 o amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets (effective 1 January 2014): This amendment clarifies the need 
for recoverable amount disclosures to impaired non-financial assets only rather than all non-financial assets. The adoption if the amendment has 
no significant impact on the Group’s consolidated financial results. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Accounting policies continued
Judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for 
assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period. The nature of estimation 
means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements:
 o franchisees within the Domino’s Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public 
recognition of the Domino’s Pizza brand (‘the Fund’). The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective of driving 
revenues for the franchised stores. The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans. The Fund is planned to operate 
at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet:
 o as all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as 
outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group income statement;
 o the assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not 
beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group. These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any 
receivables and payables related to the Fund; and
 o the cash flows relating to the Fund are included within ‘Cash generated from operations’ in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close 
interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date:
 o A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs. The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection 
of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of 
awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions 
and the continuing participation of employees.
 o Determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations requires the use of estimates regarding 
the value of the intangible assets and deferred consideration payable in particular. These values are determined using discounted cash flows 
based on latest approved budgets which necessarily include estimates concerning factors such as levels of sales and timing of store openings. 
Subsequent impairment reviews also require the use of estimates to value the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. These 
value in use calculations are re-run on an annual basis for goodwill or when there is an indicator of impairment for tangible and intangible fixed 
assets to determine whether there is any impairment to the carrying value of assets arising from business combinations.
 o Certain of the Group’s historic share-based compensation arrangements dating from 2003 to 2010 necessarily involve a degree of estimation and 
judgement in respect of their employment tax treatment. The Group has received advice from its tax advisers reconfirming the support for the 
non-taxable accounting treatment of these arrangements following HMRC’s protective assessments in prior years relating to these historic schemes. 
The beneficiaries of the arrangements, which amongst others include certain current and former directors, have provided the Group with indemnities 
to settle potential future personal tax liabilities should they crystallise. This uncertainty may give rise to material income statement and/or cash 
flow variances. It is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential impact on the financial statements.
 o The restructuring provision and asset impairments for the closure of the Germany operations are of uncertain timing and amount and therefore in 
making a reliable estimate of the quantum and timing of liabilities, judgement has been applied. At 27 December 2015 provisions of £6,786,000 
and impairments of £2,192,000 are recognised for the closure and wind up of the German operations. 
 o The classification of £935,000 of assets relating to the discontinued German operation as assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly 
associated with assets classified as held for sale is subject to some degree of estimation due to the estimation of the final level of assets and 
liabilities to be sold to the new associated operation.
Basis of consolidation
The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up on 
a 52 week basis (2012: 53 weeks; 2017: 53 weeks) to a Sunday either end of 31 December each year. The interim results are prepared for the first 
26 weeks of the relevant full period.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated 
until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit 
from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or 
by way of contractual agreement. Where necessary adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align with the Group accounting 
policies. All intercompany transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated 
upon consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and are presented 
separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary 
are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
2. Accounting policies continued
Interests in associates and joint ventures
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, 
are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Group has entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which 
represent joint ventures. These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities and share of rights to the net assets of the joint venture. 
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The considerations made in determining significant influence on joint control are similar to those 
necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises its 
interest in the entities’ assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. 
The Group’s income statement reflects the Group’s share of the associate or joint venture’s results after tax. The Group statement of changes in equity 
reflects the Group’s share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Group’s 
share of the net fair value of the associate or joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of 
the associate or joint venture and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the associate or joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the associate or joint venture’s 
profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments are made 
to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group, to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect 
impairment losses where appropriate. Adjustments are also made in the Group’s financial statements to eliminate the Group’s share of unrealised gains 
and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. The Group’s most 
significant functional currency is sterling. Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange 
rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair 
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains and 
losses arising on translation are taken to the income statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form 
part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time 
they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the 
statement of financial position date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classified as equity and are taken directly to a translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as 
expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 whereby cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at 1 January 2006 
(the date of transition to IFRS).
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at the acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred 
are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation 
in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair 
value of any contingent consideration deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in profit or loss or in 
other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the 
amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the 
acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in 
exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships 
or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and 
applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criteria are recognised separately from goodwill. 
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and 
where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) 
is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business 
acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Accounting policies continued
Business combinations and goodwill continued
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired 
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash generating units) 
that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. 
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes.
When goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation, when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed 
of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained.
Intangible assets
Computer software
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss. Externally acquired computer software and software 
licences are capitalised at the cost incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software. Internally developed computer software programmes 
are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programmes, measured reliably, and that the 
asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits. These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and five years.
Master franchise fees
Master franchise fees are fees paid towards the acquisition of the master franchise for the markets in which the Group operates. These are carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss. The useful economic lives of the assets are considered to be the life of the MFA they 
relate to which is typically 30 years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. Cost comprises the 
aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the 
asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases:
 o Freehold land   Not depreciated
 o Freehold buildings   50 years
 o Assets under construction  Not depreciated
 o Leasehold improvements  Over the life of the lease
 o Fixtures and fittings  Over five to 10 years
 o Supply Chain Centre equipment Over three to 30 years
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis. The majority of 
assets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over 10 years or more. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset 
(calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement in the 
year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs
Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments. On initial recognition these assets are held at cost 
and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use. This condition 
is regarded as met if a sale is expected to materialise within 12 months after the balance sheet date and the asset is available for immediate disposal 
in its present condition. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
After classification as assets held for sale, no further depreciation is provided for on the assets. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
2. Accounting policies continued
Leases
Group as lessee
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and 
finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability. Assets held under 
finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet. Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the 
period of the lease term. Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Plant and equipment leased out 
under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives. 
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a 
receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Finance income is recognised 
in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is 
the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the 
asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those 
expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist 
or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if 
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is 
the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised 
in profit or loss. After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any 
residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured. The amount recognised 
as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, 
its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows if the impact of discounting is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation 
in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it. The 
measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both 
necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered to exist 
when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits 
expected to be received under it.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis. Net realisable value is based 
on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Accounting policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have seven to 28 days’ terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and 
recoverable amount. Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full. Balances are written off when the probability 
of recovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores. The difference between the present value of loans 
recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty 
income and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated. These assets are amortised over the life of a new franchise agreement of 10 years.
National Advertising Fund
In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the national advertising fund. 
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores. The fund is specifically used to pay 
for marketing and advertising. The fund is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance 
sheet within working capital. As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue 
recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value 
less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other cancellation of liabilities are recognised 
respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates 
and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of 
assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is 
settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax 
liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions:
 o where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss;
 o in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
 o deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive 
income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and 
liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable 
entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each 
future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, 
such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Pensions
The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff with defined contribution schemes. The contributions are charged as an expense as they 
fall due. Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date. The Group has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve – own shares
Domino’s Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘Capital 
reserve – own shares’ and are recognised at cost. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.  Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
2. Accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes. Franchisee rebates are recognised as an 
expense within revenue on an accruals basis on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to the balance sheet date.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Sale of goods
Revenue from pizza delivery, Supply Chain Centres and equipment sales is recognised on delivery to customers and franchisees.
Franchise fees
The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee; it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services. 
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Royalties
Royalties are based on Domino’s Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Rental income
Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance income
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are 
capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the 
Group incurs. The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when:
 o expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred; and
 o activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use. 
For borrowing associated with a specific asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings 
are capitalised. To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset. The capitalisation rate shall be the 
weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings 
made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Share-based payments
The Group provides benefits to employees (including Directors) in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services 
as consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions). The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees and Directors is 
measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends 
on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using the 
Hoadley model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance (vesting conditions), other than performance 
conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an 
employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like market performance conditions, non-vesting 
conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Accounting policies continued 
Share-based payments continued
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
conditions and/or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
the Directors’ best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or in 
the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding 
increase in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on 
the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the 
new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair 
value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is expensed immediately. This includes any where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee 
are not met. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, 
the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. All cancellations 
of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair 
value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details 
are given in note 13).
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those 
equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
New standards and interpretations not applied
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial 
statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU), none of which are anticipated to significantly 
impact the Group’s results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require significant disclosure apart from IFRS 16 on leases for which the 
Group is still determining the exact impact after its recent publication on 13 January 2016.
Effective date
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’)
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’)
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
3. Revenue
Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Continuing operations £000 £000
Royalties, corporate store sales and sales to franchisees 300,162 271,757
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 16,491 16,806
Finance lease income 135 128
316,788 288,691
Discontinued operations 
Royalties, corporate store sales and sales to franchisees 5,846 5,548
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 35 139
322,669 294,378
4. Segmental information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three geographical business units, based on the territories governed by the MFA: the UK, Ireland 
and Switzerland. These are considered to be the Group’s operating segments as the information provided to the chief operating decision makers, who are 
considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories. Revenue included in each includes all sales (royalties, Supply Chain 
Centre sales, rental income and finance lease income) made to franchise stores and by corporate stores located in that segment. Segment results for the 
Ireland segment include both the ROI and Northern Ireland as both of these territories are served by the same Supply Chain Centre.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss. Group financing (including finance costs and finance 
revenue) and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets. Unallocated liabilities include the bank revolving facility, bank loans, 
deferred consideration and taxation liabilities.
In December 2015, the Group publicly announced that it had agreed to sell its German operations. As the German business represented a separate 
major geographic area of operations we have classed this segment as a discontinued operation in the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015. The 
segmental information on the following pages exclude the discontinued operation and so present the results of the Group split across the three 
remaining segments of the UK, Ireland and Switzerland, reflecting the basis on which the CODM will monitor the Group’s results going forward.
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Deferred tax asset 7,851 8,507
Cash and cash equivalents 52,860 33,743
Unallocated assets 60,711 42,250
Deferred consideration – Domino’s Leasing Limited 2,865 6,324
Current tax liabilities 4,151 5,072
Deferred tax liabilities 115 95
Bank revolving facility 10,485 5,447
Bank loans – 15,000
Unallocated liabilities 17,616 31,938 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. Segmental information continued
Operating segments
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 
Switzerland Ireland UK Total Switzerland Ireland UK Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Segment revenue
Sales to external customers 11,698 21,381 283,709 316,788 9,590 21,461 257,640 288,691
Results
Segment result (1,303) 5,035 67,725 71,457 (1,019) 5,034 57,738 61,753
Non-underlying items – – – – – (863) 394 (469)
Share of profit of associates – – 1,724 1,724 – – 1,047 1,047
Group operating profit (1,303) 5,035 69,449 73,181 (1,019) 4,171 59,179 62,331
Other gains and losses – – – – 949 – 198 1,147
(1,303) 5,035 69,449 73,181 (70) 4,171 59,377 63,478
Net finance costs (18) (1,376)
Profit before tax 73,163 62,102
Taxation (13,874) (12,745)
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (9,626) (6,619)
Profit before tax and discontinued operations 49,663 42,738
Other segment information
Depreciation 707 105 2,482 3,294 222 87 2,523 2,832
Amortisation 302 16 2,714 3,032 159 19 2,814 2,992
Share-based payment charge 45 – 1,218 1,263 17 – 856 873
Unwinding of discount – 35 (40) (5) – 45 226 271
Entity-wide disclosures
Royalties, corporate store sales 11,698 20,675 267,777 300,150 9,590 20,628 242,211 272,429
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property – 705 15,786 16,491 – 833 15,301 16,134
Finance lease income – – 147 147 – – 128 128
11,698 21,380 283,710 316,788 9,590 21,461 257,640 288,691
Assets
Segment current assets 901 1,132 33,839 35,872 782 1,271 36,794 38,847
Segment non-current assets 9,672 1,960 68,160 79,792 7,295 2,124 66,363 75,782
Equity accounted investments – – 7,985 7,985 – – 7,170 7,170
Total segment assets 10,573 3,092 109,984 123,649 8,077 3,395 110,327 121,799
Unallocated assets 60,711 42,250
Assets relating to discontinued operations 1,086 1,940
Total assets 10,573 3,092 109,984 185,446 8,077 3,395 110,327 165,989
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 1,615 1,612 60,253 63,480 1,532 1,706 52,723 55,961
Unallocated liabilities 17,616 31,938
Liabilities relating to discontinued operations 6,675 4,692
Total liabilities 1,615 1,612 60,253 87,771 1,532 1,706 52,723 92,591
Additions to non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 3,482 100 1,963 5,545 1,952 64 2,081 4,097
Intangible assets 87 – 4,956 5,043 231 – 2,226 2,457
Prepaid operating lease charges – – 156 156 – – 80 80
3,569 100 7,075 10,744 2,183 64 4,387 6,634
Major customers
Annual revenue from two franchisees amounted to £50,153,104 (2014: £43,680,000) and £54,864,463 (2014: £44,705,000) respectively, arising 
from sales reported in the United Kingdom segment. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
5. Group operating profit
This is stated after charging:
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 27 ended 28 ended 27 ended 28 ended 27 ended 28
December December December December December December
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,362 2,832 65 – 3,427 2,832
Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 196 198 – – 196 198
Amortisation of intangible assets 3,151 2,794 5 – 3,156 2,794
Total depreciation and amortisation expense 6,709 5,824 70 – 6,779 5,824
Operating lease payments (minimum lease payments)
– land and buildings 18,094 17,067 258 871 18,352 17,938
– plant, machinery and vehicles 2,851 2,842 110 94 2,961 2,936
Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 20,945 19,909 368 965 21,313 20,874
Impairment loss/(reversal) recognised on non-current assets 333 292 (7) 744 326 1,036
Net foreign currency (gain)/loss (177) 102 – – (177) 102
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 137,045 129,571 2,097 2,514 139,870 132,085
6. Auditor’s remuneration
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group and Company annual accounts* 167 151
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 109 88
Total audit fees 276 239
Audit-related assurance services 30 51
Other assurance services 60 –
Other services 210 –
Total audit and non-audit fees 576 290
* Of which £2,000 (2014: £2,000) relates to the Company.
7. Items excluded from non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax
(a) Included within operating profit
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Onerous leases – 177
Impairments – 292
– 469
Onerous leases and impairments
In 2014 an onerous lease charge of £0.2m and impairments of £0.3m were made in respect of unsuccessful concept stores in the UK.
(b) Included below operating profit
Other gains and losses
In 2014 this included a £0.9m credit in relation to the release of contingent consideration in respect of Domino’s Pizza Switzerland following final 
settlement with the vendor and a £0.2m credit in respect of the sale of UK store assets. 
In 2014 a charge of £0.7m has been recognised in respect of discount unwind on items included in finance expense. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 89
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. Employee benefits and Directors’ remuneration
(a) Employee benefits expense
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 34,456 29,941
Social security costs 2,945 3,214
Other pension costs 559 797
Share-based payment charge 1,328 899
39,288 34,851
Of the above employee costs £36,081 (2014: £31,763) relates to continuing operations.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Administration 270 267
Production and distribution 277 284
Corporate stores 536 392
1,083 942
Continuing operations 773 746
Discontinued operations 310 196
1,083 942
(b) Directors’ remuneration
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Directors’ remuneration 2,163 2,395
Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 79 78
Number of Directors accruing benefits under:
– defined contribution schemes 3 4
Additional information regarding Directors’ remuneration is included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 61. Included in Directors’ 
remuneration above are termination payments totalling £nil (2014: £194,000).
9. Finance income
Continuing operations
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Bank interest receivable 40 107
Franchisee loans 52 111
Foreign exchange 94 –
Other interest 48 163
Unwinding of discount 128 239
Total finance income 362 620 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
10. Finance expense
Continuing operations
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Bank loan – 10
Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 182 853
Other interest payable 74 79
Foreign exchange – 329
Unwinding of discount 124 725
Total finance expense 380 1,996
The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost. Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, 
including loans cost related to DP Capital Limited and Domino’s Leasing Limited reported within cost of sales, is £511,000 (2014: £1,894,000).
11. Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 27 ended 28 ended 27 ended 28 ended 27 ended 28
December December December December December December
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Tax charged in the income statement
Current income tax:
UK corporation tax:
– current period 13,026 11,406 (986) (1,626) 12,040 9,780
– adjustment in respect of prior periods (546) (152) (1,015) – (1,561) (152)
12,480 11,254 (2,001) (1,626) 10,479 9,628
Income tax of overseas operations on profits for the period 430 415 919 – 1,349 415
Total current income tax charge/(credit) 12,910 11,669 (1,082) (1,626) 11,828 10,043
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 994 1,796 23 6 1,017 1,802
Effect of change in tax rate 375 – 62 – 437 –
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (405) (720) 624 (66) 219 (786)
Total deferred tax 964 1,076 709 (60) 1,673 1,016
Tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 13,874 12,745 (373) (1,686) 13,501 11,059
The tax charge/(credit) in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
Income tax expense/(credit) 13,874 12,745 (373) (1,686) 13,501 11,059
Tax relating to items credited/(charged) to equity
Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 584 214 – – 584 214
Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation 
to unexercised share options 996 178 – – 996 178
Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 1,580 392 – – 1,580 392
There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. Taxation continued
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 is lower than the statutory corporation tax rate of 20.25% 
(2014: 21.50%). The differences are reconciled below:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Profit before taxation on continuing operations 73,163 62,102
Loss before taxation on discontinued operations (10,917) (8,305)
Profit before taxation 62,246 53,797
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) 12,605 11,566
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,871 633
Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 170 310
Adjustments relating to prior years (423) (909)
Impact of change in UK tax rate 437 (232)
Impact of other tax reliefs (832) –
Other 3 18
Tax rate differences (330) (327)
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 13,501 11,059
Income tax attributable to continuing operations 13,874 12,745
Income tax attributable to a discontinued operation (373) (1,686)
13,501 11,059
Effective tax rate – continuing and discontinued operations (%) 21.7 20.6
Underlying effective tax rate – continuing operations (%) 19.0 20.1
In the Summer Budget on 8 July 2015, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced further changes to the corporation tax rates, which will have an 
effect on the Group’s current and future tax position. The changes announced were further reductions to the standard rate of corporation tax, with 
the rate set to be reduced to 19%, effective 1 April 2017. A further reduction to 18% effective 1 April 2020 was also announced. As a result, the 
relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured as appropriate.
(c) Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At 27 December 2015, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2014: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the 
Group’s subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Group’s UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates 
paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
(d) Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
At 27 December At 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 7,404 8,203
Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains (83) (65)
Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 415 274
Deferred tax on continuing and discontinued operations 7,736 8,412
Less deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items – discontinued operations (481) –
Deferred tax on continuing operations 7,255 8,412
At 27 December At 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Gross movement in the deferred income tax account
Opening balance 8,412 9,250
Tax credit to equity 997 178
Income statement charge (1,673) (1,016)
Closing balance 7,736 8,412 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
11. Taxation continued
(d) Deferred tax continued
Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items
Accelerated
Share-based capital Lease Goodwill and
payments allowances inducements amortisation Provisions Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 29 December 2013 454 7,892 166 (13) 695 9,194
Credit to equity 178 – – – – 178
(Charge)/credit to income (23) (1,289) (15) – 158 (1,169)
At 28 December 2014 609 6,603 151 (13) 853 8,203
Credit to equity 996 – – – – 996
Credit/(charge) to income 298 (1,453) 26 – (666) (1,795)
At 27 December 2015 1,903 5,150 177 (13) 187 7,404
A deferred tax asset of £7,404,000 (2014: £8,412,000) has been recognised on continuing operations to the extent that future taxable profits 
are expected to be in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of £5.6m (2014: £4.6m) which arose in relation to the Swiss business and are available to offset against future taxable 
profits in Switzerland. A deferred tax asset of £0.4m (2014: £0.3m) has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the 
basis they are expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
In addition on discontinued operations there are £nil of losses (2014: £901,000) that have arisen in Germany in current and prior periods which 
are available for offset against future taxable profits in these jurisdictions. Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch of 
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited are available to surrender as Group relief to the UK Group and have been fully utilised. 
12. Discontinued operations
In December 2015, the Group agreed terms to dispose of their existing German operations and to enter a strategic associate arrangement with 
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises (‘DPE’), by setting up a new entity, Daytona Germany GmbH (‘Daytona’) to be owned one third by Domino’s and two 
thirds by DPE. The deal completed on 1 February 2016. As part of the agreement Domino’s have agreed to sell up to 15 of their 20 German stores 
to Daytona with the remainder being closed. As a result of the transaction, the commissary in Berlin and the head office in Germany will also close. 
Daytona have acquired the Master Franchise rights for the Domino’s brand in Germany from the Group and have also acquired an existing German 
Pizza chain, Joey’s. 
Consideration for the disposal will be a combination of £0.9m received on completion plus a Market Access Fee of up to £18.2m. The Market 
Access Fee is payable in instalments, which become due annually up to 6 years from the date of the agreement. The payment of each instalment 
is determined by reference to Daytona achieving defined performance levels each calendar year.
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Revenue 5,881 5,687
Expenses – underlying (9,192) (13,035)
Underlying loss before tax (3,311) (7,348)
Expenses – non-underlying (6,688) (957)
Loss before tax (9,999) (8,305)
Attributable tax credit 373 1,686
Net loss attributable to discontinued operations (attributable to owners of the Company) (9,626) (6,619)
Non-underlying expenses comprise redundancy costs of £0.7m and closure costs of £6.0m.
During the year, the German segment reduced the Group’s net cash flows by £3,540,000 (2014: £4,674,000), paying £792,000 (2014: £363,000) 
in respect of investing activities and £nil (2014: £2,054,000) in respect of financing activities.
Certain assets of the German operations have been classified as a disposal group held for sale and presented separately on the balance sheet. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. Discontinued operations continued
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows:
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Property, plant and equipment 935
Total classified as held for sale 935
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (trade and other payables) –
Net assets of disposal group 935
13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number 
of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion 
of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares.
Earnings
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Continuing operations Notes £000 £000
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 59,289 49,357
Amounts excluded from underlying profit – attributable to equity holders of the parent – 91
Amounts included in operating profit 7 – 469
Other gains and losses 7 – (1,147)
Discount unwind 7 – 722
Taxation impact – 47
Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent 59,289 49,448
Continuing and discontinued operations 
Continuing operations profit attributable to owners of the parent 59,289 49,357
Discontinued operations loss attributable to owners of the parent (9,626) (6,619)
Total profit attributable to owners of the parent 49,663 42,738
Weighted average number of shares
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014 
Number Number
Basic weighted average number of shares (excluding treasury shares) 166,068,239 165,471,079
Dilutive effect of share options and awards 2,133,293 1,130,827
Diluted weighted average number of shares 168,201,532 166,601,906
The performance conditions relating to share options granted over 631,562 shares (2014: 1,087,596) have not been met in the current financial period 
and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end have not been included in the diluted 
earnings per share calculation.
There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they would be antidilutive (2014: 3,000,000). 
See note 31 for further information on reversionary interests and share options. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
13. Earnings per share continued
Earnings per share
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
Continuing operations 2015 2014
Basic earnings per share 35.7p 29.8p
Diluted earnings per share 35.2p 29.6p
Underlying earnings per share:
Basic earnings per share 35.7p 29.9p
Diluted earnings per share 35.2p 29.7p
Discontinued operations 
Basic losses per share (5.8p) (4.0p)
Diluted losses per share (5.7p) (3.9p)
Continuing and discontinued operations  
Basic earnings per share 29.9p 25.9p
Diluted earnings per share 29.5p 25.8p
14. Dividends paid and proposed
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on Ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 9.69p (2013: 8.80p) 16,039 14,551
Interim dividend for 2015: 9.00p (2014: 7.81p) 14,967 12,929
Dividends paid 31,006 27,480
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM (not recognised as a liability at 27 December 2015 or 
28 December 2014)
Final dividend for 2015: 11.75p (2014: 9.69p) 19,513 16,034 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. Intangible assets
Franchise
Goodwill fees Software Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At 29 December 2013 4,576 14,187 11,022 513 30,298
Additions – – 2,479 – 2,479
Foreign exchange on translation (71) (190) (50) (10) (321)
At 28 December 2014 4,505 13,997 13,451 503 32,456
Additions 54 6 5,048 – 5,108
Disposals – (67) (43) (3) (113)
Foreign exchange on translation 67 (193) (18) – (144)
Reclassified as assets held for sale (2,983) (50) (510) – (3,543)
At 27 December 2015 1,643 13,693 17,928 500 33,764
Depreciation and impairment
At 29 December 2013 2,928 10,998 5,065 80 19,071
Provided during the year – 130 2,614 50 2,794
Impairment – – 86 – 86
Foreign exchange on translation – (14) (44) – (58)
At 28 December 2014 2,928 11,114 7,721 130 21,893
Provided during the year – 252 2,854 50 3,156
Disposals – (67) – – (67)
Impairment 55 5 220 – 280
Foreign exchange on translation – 71 (26) – 45
Reclassified as assets held for sale (2,983) (50) (510) – (3,543)
At 27 December 2015 – 11,325 10,259 180 21,764
Net book value at 27 December 2015 1,643 2,368 7,669 320 12,000
Net book value at 28 December 2014 1,577 2,881 5,730 373 10,561
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
At At 
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Switzerland 1,643 1,577
1,643 1,577
Goodwill
The Group is obliged to test goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired, 
due to the goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit (‘CGU’) including the goodwill with 
its recoverable amount. The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from a value in use calculation. The key assumptions for the valuation are 
those regarding discount rates, store openings and expected changes to level of sales in stores. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates 
that reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU. Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts. 
Changes in levels of AWUS (average weekly unit sales) and store openings are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates 
cash flows for the remaining term of the MFA based on the average long-term growth rate of 1.5% for Switzerland, which do not exceed the average 
long-term growth rate for the relevant market. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the Swiss CGU is 10.6%.
The Group also has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value including reducing sales level and changing 
discount rates. In respect of the Swiss CGU, no reasonably expected change would give rise to an impairment charge.
Master franchise fees
Master franchise fees consist of costs relating to the MFA for the UK, ROI, Germany and Switzerland. The UK and ROI MFA runs into perpetuity, 
with a development clause that is renewable on a 10 year basis. The German and Swiss MFAs have terms of 30 years.
Included above are intangible assets with a carrying value of £320,000 (2014: £373,000) in relation to interest-free loans given to franchisees 
to assist in the opening of new stores. The difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised 
as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
16. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold Assets Fixtures Supply Chain
land and under Leasehold and Centre
buildings construction improvements fittings equipment Total 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At 29 December 2013 33,459 2,630 280 11,473 32,311 80,153
Additions 42 1,770 212 1,008 1,380 4,412
Reclassification of assets – (3,310) – 1,015 2,295 –
Disposals – (14) (4) (782) – (800)
Foreign exchange on translation (94) (34) (14) (406) (214) (762)
At 28 December 2014 33,407 1,042 474 12,308 35,772 83,003
Additions 89 3,110 571 1,997 996 6,763
Reclassification of assets – (2,395) 4,573 (1,865) (1,201) (888)
Reclassfication to assets held for sale – – (128) (5,921) (1,621) (7,670)
Disposals – – (25) (206) (862) (1,093)
Foreign exchange on translation (90) 45 21 (283) (211) (518)
At 27 December 2015 33,406 1,802 5,486 6,030 32,873 79,597
Depreciation and impairment
At 29 December 2013 4,606 1,676 84 7,258 9,021 22,645
Reclassification of assets – (1,676) – – 1,676 –
Provided during the year 497 – 47 896 1,392 2,832
Impairment – 116 – 532 – 648
Disposals – – – – – –
Foreign exchange on translation (15) 2 (4) (322) (157) (496)
At 28 December 2014 5,088 118 127 8,364 11,932 25,629
Reclassification of assets – (118) 67 172 118 239
Provided during the year 562 – 465 930 1,470 3,427
Impairment – 20 128 (151) 32 29
Reclassification to assets held for sale – – (128) (4,986) (1,621) (6,735)
Disposals – – – (203) (860) (1,063)
Foreign exchange on translation (15) – 5 (329) (156) (495)
At 27 December 2015 5,635 20 664 3,797 10,915 21,031
Net book value at 27 December 2015 27,771 1,782 4,822 2,233 21,958 58,566
Net book value at 28 December 2014 28,319 924 347 3,944 23,840 57,374
Assets with a net book value of £649,000 have been reclassified to other receivables during the year. These represent lease assets for improved presentation.
Freehold land and buildings
Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of £4,689,000 (2014: £4,689,000) in respect of land which is not depreciated.
Capitalised financing costs
Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of £972,000 (2014: £1,156,000) of capitalised financing costs relating to the revolving credit facility used 
to finance the building of the new Supply Chain Centre and head office. Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period in which 
the interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 24. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. Prepaid operating lease charges
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Note £000 £000
Balance at the beginning of the period 1,270 1,514
Additions 159 80
Refunded (6) –
Impairment 7 – (144)
Foreign exchange on translation (23) 18
Amortisation (196) (198)
Balance at the end of the period 1,204 1,270
Analysed as follows:
Non-current assets 1,010 1,072
Current assets 194 198
1,204 1,270
18. Trade and other receivables
Included in non-current assets:
At
At 28 December
27 December 2014
2015 (restated)
£000 £000
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures* 355 1,387
Loans to franchisees* 717 1,957
Other receivables* 6,035 2,274
7,107 5,618
* Financial assets at amortised cost.
The restated figure for non-current other receivables is £1,039,000 higher as at 28 December 2014; refer to note 2 for further details.
Included in current assets:
At
At 28 December
27 December 2014
2015 (restated)
£000 £000
Trade receivables* 7,956 9,908
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures* 1,878 1,995
Loans to franchisees* 1,836 2,505
Other receivables* 4,966 6,485
Prepayments and accrued income 12,111 13,842
28,747 34,735
* Financial assets at amortised cost.
The restated figure for current other receivables is £247,000 higher as at 28 December 2014; refer to note 2 for further details. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
18. Trade and other receivables continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
At 27 December At 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Sterling 7,439 7,995
Euro 502 1,887
Swiss franc 15 26
7,956 9,908
The euro-denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Group’s Irish operations (2014: Irish and German operations), the functional 
currency of which is the euro.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 7 to 28 days’ terms. As at 27 December 2015, trade receivables at nominal value of £169,584 
(2014: £2,472,000) were provided for. 
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Neither
past
due nor
Past due but not impaired
Total impaired < 30 days > 30 days
£000 £000 £000 £000
As at 27 December 2015 7,956 7,191 329 436
As at 28 December 2014 9,908 6,234 1,385 2,289
Loans to franchisees
Loans to franchisees are repayable within one to five years. The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average 
of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures
At 27 December At 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Amounts owed by associates 1,238 2,270
Amounts owed by joint ventures 995 1,112
2,233 3,382
Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling £642,000 (2014: £1,083,000) due from Full House Restaurants 
Holdings Limited. Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of £446,000 due from DP Shayban Limited (2014: £477,000) 
and £300,000 due from Domino’s Pizza West Country Limited (2014: £378,000). The terms of these loans are consistent with the loan terms provided 
to franchisees (see above). The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures represents trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures:
Trading Loan 
balance balance Total
£000 £000 £000
At 29 December 2013 689 2,516 3,205
Movement in trading balance 756 – 756
Repayment of loan balance – (734) (734)
Increase in loan balance – 155 155
At 28 December 2014 1,445 1,937 3,382
Movement in trading balance (601) – (601)
Repayment of loan balance – (548) (548)
At 27 December 2015 844 1,389 2,233
The movement in the trading balance is included within the ‘increase in receivables’ in ‘cash generated from operations’ in the cash flow statement.
Other receivables
Included in the current element of other receivables is the National Advertising Fund (‘NAF’) balance of £nil (2014: £1,558,000) due to the difference in 
timing between cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees. The balance in the current 
period is a net creditor, please refer to note 23 for further details. The outstanding balance of the NAF bears interest at 4.5% above Barclays Bank plc 
base rate. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Finance leases
The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years 
bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 6.2% (2014: 5.7%).
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Net investment in finance leases 1,983 2,185
Analysis of net investment in finance leases
Current 774 900
Non-current 1,209 1,285
1,983 2,185
Future minimum payments receivable:
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Not later than one year 866 997
After one year but not more than five years 1,291 1,363
2,157 2,360
Less: finance income allocated to future periods (174) (175)
1,983 2,185
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Investment in associates 1,919 1,381
Investment in joint ventures 6,066 5,789
7,985 7,170
(a) Investment in associates
The Group has a 41% interest in Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited, a private company that manages pizza delivery stores in the UK. 
This interest is accounted for as an associate, using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements, as the Group has significant 
influence but does not control the entity or have joint control.
Summarised financial information for the associate is set out below:
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Summary of associate’s balance sheet
Current assets 2,998 3,917
Non-current assets 11,646 4,083
Current liabilities (3,931) (2,915)
Non-current liabilities (6,032) (1,717)
Equity 4,681 3,368
Group’s carrying amount of the investment 1,919 1,381
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 27 December 2015 or at 28 December 2014. The associate requires the parent’s 
consent to distribute its profits. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
(a) Investment in associates continued
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended 
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Summary of associate’s revenue and profit
Revenue 33,787 29,556
Profit after tax for the year 1,938 1,022
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,938 1,022
Group’s share of profit for the year 794 419
Dividends received from the associate during the year 205 45
(b) Investment in joint ventures
The Group has two 50% UK joint ventures, with Domino’s Pizza West Country Limited (‘West Country’) and DP Shayban Limited (‘DP Shayban’). 
Both West Country and DP Shayban are accounted for as joint ventures using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements as the 
Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, 
financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
Summary financial information of the joint ventures based on their IFRS financial statements is set out below:
At 27 December 2015 At 28 December 2014
DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Summary of joint ventures’ balance sheets
Current assets 1,282 2,391 3,673 4,040 1,550 5,590
Non-current assets 7,418 6,266 13,684 4,036 6,214 10,250
Current liabilities (1,122) (1,506) (2,628) (3,568) (512) (4,080)
Non-current liabilities (2,597) – (2,597) (38) (144) (182)
Equity 4,981 7,151 12,132 4,470 7,108 11,578
Group’s carrying amount of the investment 2,490 3,576 6,066 2,235 3,554 5,789
Within gross balance sheets: 
Current assets includes cash and cash equivalents 1,161 2,178 3,339 714 1,456 2,170
Current financial liabilities (502) – (502) (538) – (538)
Non-current financial liabilities (2,597) – (2,597) (3,200) – (3,200)
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014
DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Summary of joint ventures’ statement of profit or loss
Revenue 14,915 10,951 25,866 14,705 9,466 24,171
Profit after tax for the year 507 1,352 1,859 632 624 1,256
Total comprehensive income for the year 507 1,352 1,859 632 624 1,256
Group’s share of profit for the year 254 676 930 316 312 628
Dividends received – 285 285 – 160 160
Profit after tax for the year includes: 
Depreciation and amortisation 690 389 1,079 424 354 778
Interest income – – – 86 10 96
Interest expense 88 12 100 104 16 120
Income tax expense 255 250 505 176 212 388
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014. Both joint ventures cannot 
distribute their profits without the consent from the two venture partners. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Inventories
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Raw materials 330 220
Finished goods and goods for sale 5,878 4,606
Total inventories at lower of cost or estimated net realisable value 6,208 4,826
22. Cash and cash equivalents
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 52,860 33,743
Cash is denominated in the following currencies:
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Sterling 49,355 28,019
Euro 2,882 5,231
Swiss franc 609 482
Thai baht 14 11
52,860 33,743
23. Trade and other payables
At
At 28 December
27 December 2014
2015 (restated)
£000 £000
Included in current liabilities:
Trade payables* 9,500 15,482
Other taxes and social security costs 4,056 3,922
Other payables* 1,013 4,348
Accruals 38,343 23,771
52,912 47,523
Included in non-current liabilities: 
Other payables* 316 –
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Accruals has been restated lower by £4,548,000 as at 28 December 2014; refer to note 2 for further details.
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
 o trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on seven to 30 days’ terms; and
 o other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Included in the current element of other payables is the National Advertising Fund (‘NAF’) balance of £316,000 (2014: £nil) due to the difference 
in timing between cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees. Total contributions made 
to the fund during the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 were £41,819,000 (2014: £32,030,000). The balance in the previous period was a net 
debtor, please refer to note 18 for further details. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
24. Financial liabilities
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current
Bank revolving facility – 5
Current instalments due on bank loans – 15,000
Current instalments due on other loans 943 1,005
Current instalments due on finance leases 45 44
988 16,054
Non-current
Bank revolving facility 10,485 5,442
Non-current instalments due on other loans 965 1,273
Non-current instalments due on finance leases – 16
11,450 6,731
Banking facilities
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £52,860,000 (2014: £33,473,000). 
At 27 December 2015 the Group had a total of £35,000,000 (2014: £50,000,000) of banking facilities, of which £22,562,000 (2014: £27,275,000) 
was undrawn.
Bank revolving facility
Interest charged on the term loan was 1.10% per annum above LIBOR. The term loan matured on 31 January 2015 on which date facilities 
reduced back to £30,000,000. Interest charged on the revolving credit facility is 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% 
utilisation fee. The facility expires on 10 August 2017. Arrangement fees of £111,659 (2014: £372,000) directly incurred in relation to the 
facility are included in the carrying value of the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility. The facility is secured by an 
unlimited cross-guarantee between the Company, Domino’s Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, 
DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited.
Other loans
Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased onto franchisees under finance lease agreements. The Group has 
an asset finance facility of £5,000,000 (2014: £5,000,000) with a term of five years. The balance drawn down on this facility and held within ‘other 
loans’ as at 27 December 2015 is £1,908,000 (2014: £2,278,000). The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five years. 
The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited (limited to an annual sum 
of £300,000) and a mortgage charge over the assets financed. The interest rate on these loans is fixed at an average of 5.7% (2014: 5.5%).
Finance leases
The Group has a number of finance leases for corporate store equipment and vehicles in Switzerland and Germany. The average lease term is 2.4 years. 
During the period the average effective borrowing rate was 1.8% (2014: 3.2%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract rate. All leases are on a fixed 
repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are 
secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets. At 27 December 2015 the leased assets have a carrying value of £45,000 (2014: £60,000). 
No further disclosures have been included due to the immateriality of the lease liabilities to the Group’s balance sheet. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. Deferred and contingent consideration
Deferred Contingent Total
£000 £000 £000
At 29 December 2013 7,326 1,129 8,455
Paid during the period (1,208) (132) (1,340)
Released during the period – (947) (947)
Unwinding of discount 206 – 206
Foreign exchange movements – (50) (50)
At 28 December 2014 6,324 – 6,324
Paid during the period (3,517) – (3,517)
Unwinding of discount 58 – 58
At 27 December 2015 2,865 – 2,865
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current 2,865 3,841
Non-current – 2,483
Total 2,865 6,324
On 1 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Dresdner Kleinwort Leasing March (2) Limited (‘Domino’s Leasing’), a private 
company based in England which provided funding in the form of finance leases to a number of corporate clients. As a company with an established 
leasing trade, Domino’s Leasing owns the leased equipment and is entitled to an ongoing rental income from each lease for the remaining term of that 
lease and it is entitled to certain tax reliefs from its ownership of that equipment. On acquisition, the tax reliefs available had a total value of £29,240,000 
and a deferred consideration of £15,364,000 was payable, the amount and timing of which depends on the amount and timing of the benefits 
to the Group arising from this tax relief. The deferred consideration is payable until April 2016.
During the period the Group has utilised £7,032,000 (2014: £8,532,000) of the capital allowances which were acquired with Domino’s Leasing 
Limited. The utilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition; however, 
it results in no overall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Group’s corporation tax liability.
On 24 September 2012, the Group acquired the trade and assets of a business in Switzerland on which contingent consideration was payable. 
The fair value of contingent consideration at the time of acquisition was estimated to be £1,087,000. In 2014, the amount payable crystallised 
at £134,000 and the unutilised provision for contingent consideration was released to the profit and loss.
26. Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts
Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee
For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties to 
the franchisees. These leases have an average duration of between 10 and 25 years. Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is 
granted an initial period of 10 years to operate a Domino’s Pizza delivery store under the Domino’s system. Under the agreement, the franchisee also 
has the option to renew for a further 10 years at the end of the initial period provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee is not in default of any 
material provision of the franchise agreement. In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery 
and equipment. These leases have an average duration of between three and five years. Only the property lease agreements contain an option for 
renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Not later than one year 20,386 19,696
After one year but not more than five years 71,954 72,060
After five years 128,865 140,770
221,205 232,526 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
26. Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts continued
Operating lease rentals where the Group is lessor
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Not later than one year 17,291 16,960
After one year but not more than five years 55,443 56,019
After five years 50,413 36,770
123,147 109,748
27. Provisions
Onerous lease Restructuring
provisions provisions Total
£000 £000 £000
At 28 December 2014 2,005 1,266 3,271
Arising during the period 2,901 2,946 5,847
Utilised during the period (287) (981) (1,268)
Released during the period (329) (96) (425)
Impact of discounting 69 (28) 41
Foreign exchange on translation (95) 43 (138)
At 27 December 2015 4,264 3,064 7,328
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current 6,113 1,270
Non-current 1,215 2,000
7,328 3,270
Onerous lease provision
The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for properties in the UK, ROI and Germany. These properties include sublets 
to commercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identified to operate the store such that the lease 
obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation to the 
lease. The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between one and 24 years. Of the amount 
arising in the year £2,486,000 relates to amounts provided in Germany due to discontinuation of operations.
Restructuring provisions
£2,918,000 of the provision relates to the discontinuation of Germany operations and relates to closure costs of the head office and some stores. 
The remaining restructuring provision arose upon acquisition of Domino’s Switzerland and relates to outstanding rent obligations for three stores 
which were being closed and relocated as well as other commitments arising from the restructuring plan such as relocation costs. The total 
restructuring provision will be utilised within three years.
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring those risks, which have an adverse impact on the value of 
the Group’s financial assets and liabilities or on reported profitability and on the cash flows of the Group. The Group’s principal financial liabilities 
comprise bank loans, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases. The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and 
cash, which arise directly from its operations. The Group has not entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial 
foreign currency contracts. It is, and has been throughout 2015 and 2014, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
The Group’s main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates. The treasury policy 
of the Group is determined and monitored by the Board. The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash forecasting, 
against available facilities. Surplus cash is pooled into an interest bearing account with the Group’s bankers. The Group monitors its overall level of 
financial gearing monthly, with short and medium-term forecasts showing levels of gearing within targets. It is the Group’s policy not to have high 
financial leverage, comparing net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’).
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign currency risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate 
risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 105
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Foreign currency risk
The Group has invested in operations in ROI, Germany and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling. As a 
result, the value of the Group’s non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange 
rates, the euro in particular. The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed euro rates with franchisees and suppliers 
wherever possible. The Board does not consider there to be any significant unmitigated foreign currency risk in relation to the Group’s profit before tax.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the sterling against euro exchange rates, with all other variables 
held constant, of the Group’s equity (due to changes in the carrying value of euro-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional 
currency and sterling-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a euro functional currency):
Increase/ Effect
decrease on profit
in sterling vs before tax
euro rate % £000
2015 +25 37
–25 (54)
2014 +25 29
–25 (43)
Credit risk
Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that 
the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. 
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under 
the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating (in accordance 
with the Group’s treasury policy) to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
Liquidity risk
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation by its operations with cash collection targets set throughout the Group. 
All major investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process. In this way the Group aims 
to maintain a good credit rating to facilitate fundraising. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014 based on 
contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 3 to 1 to 
On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Period ended 27 December 2015
Floating rate borrowings
Bank loan – – – – –
Bank revolving facility – 16 49 10,534 10,599
Fixed rate borrowings
Other loans – 284 725 1,051 2,060
Finance leases – 4 11 30 45
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables – 48,855 – 316 49,171
Deferred consideration – amortised cost – 1,442 1,423 – 2,865
– 50,601 2,208 11,931 64,740 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk continued
Less than 3 to 1 to 
On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Period ended 28 December 2014
Floating rate borrowings
Bank loan – 15,138 – – 15,138
Bank revolving facility – 39 116 5,874 6,029
Fixed rate borrowings
Other loans – 271 747 1,426 2,444
Finance leases – 6 19 34 60
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables – 47,121 – – 47,121
Deferred consideration – amortised cost – 310 3,199 2,637 6,146
– 62,885 4,081 9,971 76,937
Interest rate risk
The Board has a policy of ensuring a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings based on the best available rates. Whilst fixed rate interest bearing 
debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to benefit from a reduction in borrowing costs when market 
rates are declining. Conversely, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow interest 
rate risk as costs are impacted by changes in market rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, 
the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the 52-week period ended 27 December 2015 
would decrease/increase by £214,000 (2014: £56,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings. 
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it retains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order 
to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in 
the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014. At the AGM in 2014, a special resolution 
was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary shares. During 2014 (up to 
and including 28 December 2014) the Company purchased 380,000 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1.5625p under this authority at a total 
cost of £2,220,395 with those Ordinary shares currently held in treasury. This represents 0.2% of the Company’s called up share capital as at 
28 December 2014. The Company engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows permit and there is no immediate 
alternative investment use for the funds. No share buybacks occurred in 2015.
The Group monitors the ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’). The Group 
includes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents and excludes, for 
this calculation, the Domino’s Germany non-controlling interest loan.
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Bank loan – 15,000
Other loans 1,908 2,278
Finance leases 45 60
Bank revolving facilities 10,485 5,447
Less: cash and cash equivalents (52,860) (33,743)
Net cash (40,422) (10,958)
Underlying EBITDA from continuing operations 79,891 61,275
Adjusted gearing ratio (0.5) (0.2)
For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the Strategic Report. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 107
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. Financial instruments
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried 
in the financial statements:
Carrying Carrying Fair Fair 
value value value value 
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Financial assets
Net investment in finance leases 1,983 2,184 1,907 2,058
Financial liabilities
Bank revolving facilities 10,485 5,447 10,485 5,447
Bank loan EBT – 15,000 – 15,000
Fixed rate borrowings 1,908 2,278 2,011 2,374
Finance lease liabilities 45 60 45 60
The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate. 
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Management have determined that the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables 
approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of bank revolving facilities, bank loans, fixed rate borrowings, finance lease liabilities and floating rate borrowings are determined using 
a rate that reflects the entity’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The inputs use in these discounted cash flow calculations are at 
level 2 in the hierarchy.
Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 –  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. 
Level 3 –  Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
30. Share capital and reserves
Authorised share capital
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each:
– number 256,000,000 256,000,000
– value (£) 4,000,000 4,000,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital
At 27 December 2015 At 28 December 2014
Number £ Number £
At 28 December 2014 and 29 December 2013 165,909,532 2,592,335 164,497,341 2,570,270
Issued on exercise of share options 893,156 13,951 532,191 8,315
Issued on acquisition – – 880,000 13,750
At 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014 166,802,688 2,606,286 165,909,532 2,592,335
During the period 893,156 (2014: 532,782) Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each with a nominal value of £13,951 (2014: £8,315) were issued between 
107.03p (2014: 64.53p) and 534.5p (2014: 482.4p) for a total cash consideration received of £3,572,000 (2014: £2,038,000) to satisfy the share 
options that were exercised. In addition, during the prior period the company issued 880,000 shares on purchasing the remaining 25% shareholding 
of DP Cyco Limited from its non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited (‘Briskas’). Briskas also holds an option over 3 million shares with an 
exercise price of 5.777 pence per share. 
Nature and purpose of reserves
Share capital
Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Company’s Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each.
Share premium
The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Company’s 1.5625p Ordinary shares. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
30. Share capital and reserves continued
Nature and purpose of reserves continued
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Capital reserve – own shares
This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as ‘treasury shares’. The shares held by the 
EBT were purchased in order to satisfy potential awards under the Reversionary LTIP. At 27 December 2015, the Trust held 56,252 (2014: 56,252) 
shares, which had a historic cost of £879 (2014: £879). These shares had a market value at 27 December 2015 of £573,770 (2014: £393,764).
During the period the Company did not acquire any of its own shares (2014: £380,000 of its own shares of 1.5625p each for a total consideration 
of £2,237,000). The shares are held as ‘treasury shares’. The Company has the right to reissue these shares at later date.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends. The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
Currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Group’s 
foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserve
In 2013, the other reserve related to the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of DP Cyco Ltd, being 880,000 Ordinary shares on 
the opening of the 35th Domino’s store in Germany. In 2014, the 25% shareholding of DP Cyco Ltd was purchased from its non-controlling interest 
partner, Briskas Limited.
31. Share-based payments
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 
was £1,328,000 (2014: £899,000). This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan (2012 LTIP)
At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance 
shares. Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to senior executives and other employees. Awards are 
capable of vesting within a three-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled. 
During the period 338,880 awards were granted (2014: 1,394,715). At 27 December 2015, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 1,492,013 
(2014: 2,009,525) shares in Domino’s Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 27 December 2015 was 6.3 years (2014: 6.7 years). The weighted 
average share price for options exercised during 2015 was 398.92p (2014: 419.06p).
The fair value of options granted is estimated at the date of granting using Stochastic and Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which they were granted. Total shareholder return (TSR) is generated for the Company and the comparator group at the end of the 
three-year performance period. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options 
is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period 
ended 27 December 2015:
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
Weighted average fair value 588.00p
Weighted average share price 911.0p
Weighted average exercise price 0.00p
Expected dividend yield 0%–2.07%
Risk-free rates 0.79%–1.52%
Expected volatility 23.6%–27.5%
Further information on the Company’s 2012 LTIP awards are given in the Executive Director policy table on page 44 of the Directors’ remuneration report.  Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 109
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31. Share-based payments continued
Employee share options
On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Domino’s Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme (‘EMI Scheme’).
All employees are eligible for grants of options under this scheme, which is approved by the Board. Prior to 2011, the options vested over a three-year 
period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the 
date of grant exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3%. For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three-year period and are exercisable 
subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%. 
The options lapse after 10 years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company. There are no cash settlement alternatives 
and all awards are equity settled. 
No options were granted during the period ended 27 December 2015 (2014: nil).
Sharesave scheme
During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company at a 20% discount. 
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of £500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase 
shares in the Company or to take their savings in cash. The contractual life of the scheme is three years. The weighted average fair value of each option 
granted in 2015 was 186.47p (2014: 71.0p).
Share schemes
As at 27 December 2015, the following share options were outstanding:
Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at Exercisable at
28 December during during during 27 December 27 December 
Exercise 2014 the period the period the period 2015 2015
Scheme price Number Number Number Number Number Number
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to
540.50p
2,009,525 338,880 (286,420) (569,972) 1,492,013 86,712
Dominos Pizza 
(Unapproved) Scheme
107.03p to
210.00p
168,763 – (72,432) (27,667) 68,664 68,664
Dominos Pizza CSOP 
(Unapproved) Scheme
205.50p to
482.40p
293,218 – (123,744) (89,851) 79,623 79,623
Dominos Pizza CSOP 
(Approved) Scheme
205.50p to
482.40p
482,608 – (314,449) (7,194) 160,965 160,965
Sharesave scheme 237.92p to
639.00p
389,979 162,545 (95,816) (40,075) 416,633 –
3,344,093 501,425 (892,861) (734,759) 2,217,896 395,964
Weighted average exercise price 333.07p 207.14p 398.92p 400.87p 255.63p 345.27p
As at 28 December 2014, the following share options were outstanding:
Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at Exercisable at
29 December during during during 28 December 28 December 
Exercise 2013 the period the period the period 2014 2014
Scheme price Number Number Number Number Number Number
Reversionary Interest 
Long Term Incentive Plan
437.10p 2,287,920 – (1,832,917) (455,003) – –
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to
540.50p
1,021,684 1,394,715 – (406,873) 2,009,525 –
Dominos Pizza 
(unapproved) Scheme
107.03p to
210.00p
262,137 – (93,375) – 168,763 168,763
Dominos Pizza CSOP 
(unapproved) Scheme
205.50p to
482.40p
536,079 – (154,839) (88,022) 293,218 55,716
Dominos Pizza CSOP 
(approved) Scheme
205.50p to
482.40p
899,070 – (280,926) (135,536) 482,608 152,456
EMI Scheme 64.53p 9,600 – (9,600) – – –
Sharesave scheme 237.92p to
434.00p
307,094 184,549 (46,557) (55,107) 389,979 –
 
5,323,585 1,579,264 (2,418,214) (1,140,541) 3,344,093 376,935
Weighted average exercise price 410.20p 225.63p 419.06p 361.98p 333.07p 233.74p Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
32. Additional cash flow information
Analysis of Group net debt
At At 
28 December Cash Exchange Non-cash 27 December
2014 flow differences movements 2015
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 33,743 19,628 (511) – 52,860
Bank revolving facility (5,447) (4,698) (287) (53) (10,485)
Bank loans (15,000) 15,000 – – –
Finance leases (60) 13 2 – (45)
Other loans (2,278) 370 – – (1,908)
Adjusted net cash/(debt) 10,958 30,313 (769) (53) 40,422
Other loans – – – – –
Net cash/(debt) 10,958 30,313 (769) (53) 40,422
At 29 December Cash Exchange Non-cash At 28 December
2013 flow differences movements 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 31,597 1,888 258 – 33,743
Bank revolving facility (29,814) 24,494 41 (168) (5,447)
Bank loans (13,000) (2,000) – – (15,000)
Finance leases (134) 71 3 – (60)
Other loans (2,213) (65) – – (2,278)
Adjusted net (debt)/cash (13,564) 24,388 302 (168) 10,958
Other loans (2,090) 2,059 31 – –
Net (debt)/cash (15,654) 26,447 333 (168) 10,958
33. Capital commitments
At 27 December 2015, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £861,000 (2014: £nil) for the Group.
34. Contingent liabilities
Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities (Companies: Group Accounts) Regulations, 1992 the Company has guaranteed 
the liabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited, and as a result the Irish company has been exempted from the filing provisions in section 7, 
Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 of the ROI. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35. Related party transactions
The financial statements include the financial statements of Domino’s Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary and associated undertakings listed below.
Country of Proportion of voting 
Name of company incorporation rights and shares held Nature of business
Directly held subsidiary undertakings
DPG Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary Investment
DP Realty Limited England 100% Ordinary Property management
DP Group Developments Limited England 100% Ordinary Property development
DP Capital Limited England 100% Ordinary Leasing of store equipment
DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Germany
DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Switzerland
Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings
Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% Ordinary Operation and management of franchise business and Supply 
Chain Centre
DP Newcastle Limited England 100% Ordinary Dormant
DP Pizza Limited ROI 100% Ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre
Domino’s Leasing Limited England 100% Ordinary Leasing
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited England 100% Ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre and pizza delivery stores in Germany
Domino’s Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Investment
Domino’s Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% Ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre and pizza delivery stores 
in Switzerland
Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH* Germany 100% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Domino’s Pizza (Isle of Man) Limited Isle of Man 100% Ordinary Property management
Domino’s Pizza Germany (Holdings) 
Limited
Germany 100% Ordinary Investment
DP Realty Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Property management
Associate undertakings
Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Indirectly held subsidiaries of associate undertakings
Classic Crust Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Sherston Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
BN Sandy (Cannock) Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Full House Restaurants Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Surrey Pizzas Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Dancing Tiger Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
BN Sandy (Newcastle) Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
House Special Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
The Woodpecker Inn Ltd England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Freshname 845 Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of takeaway food shops
Bristol Curry Limited England 41% Ordinary Dormant
Joint venture undertakings
Domino’s Pizza West Country Limited England 50% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
DP Shayban Limited England 50% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
Indirectly held subsidiaries of joint venture undertakings
MLS Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
DA Hall Trading Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
DAHT Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
DP Beach A Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
DP Beach B Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
Mesan Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
Zens Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
Dijla Newport Limited England 50% Ordinary Dormant
AKS Partners Limited England 50% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores
* The Group acquired the 60% of the remaining shareholding of HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH during 2015. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
35. Related party transactions continued
During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. For details of loan balances due from 
associates please refer to note 18. Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding with related parties, are as follows:
Amounts 
Sales to owed by 
related related 
party party
£000 £000
Related party
Associates and joint ventures
27 December 2015 24,390 845
28 December 2014 19,157 1,445
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured and interest free 
and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice. The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party 
receivables or payables. During the financial period ended 27 December 2015, the Group has made a provision of £nil for doubtful debts relating 
to amounts owed by related parties (2014: £754,000).
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended 
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 3,632 4,447
Post-employment benefits 147 257
Share-based payment 866 493
4,304 5,878
The table above includes the remuneration costs of the Directors of the Company and the Directors of Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, 
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited and Domino’s Pizza GmbH. Included in short-term employee benefits above are termination payments totalling 
£179,000 (2014: £194,000).
36. Acquisition of additional interest in DP Cyco Limited
On 26 February 2014, the Group acquired an additional 25.0% interest in the voting shares of DP Cyco Limited from our non-controlling interest 
partner, Briskas Limited, increasing the Group’s ownership interest to 100.0%. Consideration in the form of an option over 3,000,000 shares in 
Domino’s at an amount of 577.7 pence per share (equal to 25 pence above the average of the market value for a Domino’s Share as derived from the 
Daily Official List for the five business days prior to the date of the Agreement) was provided to Briskas Limited. In addition, the contingently issuable 
shares (880,000) which formed part of the original acquisition arrangement were issued at completion. The carrying value of the net liabilities of 
DP Cyco Limited at the acquisition date was £1,967,403 (€2,388,862), and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was £491,851 (€597,216). 
The difference of £1,095,647 between the consideration and the carrying value of the interest acquired has been recognised in retained earnings 
within equity.
37. Subsequent events
On 1 February 2016 the Group completed the set up of the new German strategic associate arrangement and acquisition of Joey’s Pizza in Germany, 
with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited (‘DPE’) through the formation of newly incorporated company, Daytona Germany GmbH (‘Daytona’), 
to be owned one third by the Group and two thirds by DPE. 
Daytona has agreed to: (i) acquire the master franchise rights for the Domino’s brand in Germany; and (ii) acquire up to 15 Group stores in Germany 
(the ‘Transaction’) from the Group. The Group will receive a fee of up to €25m (£18.2m) from DPE which will be payable in six annual instalments, 
dependent upon Daytona achieving various levels of profitability. The Group will have representation on the board of Daytona and also other 
minority protections.
In addition, Daytona has agreed to acquire Joey’s Pizza (‘Joey’s’), the leading pizza delivery business in Germany, for an initial consideration of €45m 
(£32.8m), with further payments taking the aggregate up to €79m (£57.6m), based on satisfying certain specified earn-out criteria (the ‘Acquisition’).
The Group and DPE will initially invest a total of €58m (£42.3m) in Daytona to part-fund the Acquisition, the acquisition of Group stores and associated 
costs, of which the Group’s share is €19m (£13.8m).
The Group has a put option over its interest in Daytona which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2019 and 
DPE has a call option over the Group’s interest which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2021. The consideration 
payable upon exercise of either the put option or the call option will be based on an enterprise value determined from the capitalisation of future 
adjusted underlying EBITDA at an agreed multiple of between 10 and 12 times. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 113
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company balance sheet
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Notes £000 £000
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 3 15,416 14,423
Investment in associates and joint ventures 3 4,886 4,886
Total investments 20,302 19,309
Current assets
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 4 96,355 106,532
Other debtors 698 562
Cash and cash equivalents 39,480 5,275
136,533 112,369
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (79,892) (68,426)
Net current assets 56,641 43,943
Total assets less current liabilities 76,943 63,252
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 – (14,836)
76,943 48,416
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 7 2,606 2,592
Share premium account 9 29,155 25,597
Capital redemption reserve 9 425 425
Capital reserve – own shares 9 (2,238) (2,238)
Other reserve 9 – –
Profit and loss account 9 46,995 22,039
Equity shareholders’ funds 9 76,943 48,416
David Wild
Director
2 March 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The parent company financial statements of Domino’s Pizza Group plc are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice.
The balance sheet is presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) except where otherwise indicated.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company has taken 
the exemption under FRS 1 not to present a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken the advantage of the exemption in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and not disclosed information 
required by that standard, as the Group’s publicly available consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Investments
Shares in the subsidiary companies and fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment. Where shares have been 
issued as part of the consideration for an acquisition these are accounted for at their nominal value in accordance with the exemption under sections 
131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985 (for issues prior to 1 October 2009) and sections 612 and 615 of Companies Act 2006 thereafter.
Provision is made against the carrying value of investments where there is impairment in value.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or 
events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions:
 o Provision is made for tax on gains from revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets that 
have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the 
assets concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not 
that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
 o Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits 
from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Capital reserve – own shares
Treasury shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are classified in capital and reserves as ‘Capital reserve – own shares’ and recognised at cost. 
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase or sale of such shares. 
Share-based payment transactions
Directors of the Company receive an element of remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services 
as consideration for equity instruments.
The awards vest when certain performance and/or service conditions are met; see the Directors’ remuneration report for the individual vesting 
conditions for the various schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is 
recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. 
Fair value is determined by an external value using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired, 
management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest 
or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in the cumulative expense 
since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry into equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on 
the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the 
new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair 
value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 115
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payment transactions continued
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is 
deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied FRS 20 only to awards granted 
after 7 November 2002 that had not yet vested at 3 January 2005.
The Company records an increase in its investment in subsidiaries with a credit to equity equivalent to the FRS 20 costs in the subsidiary undertakings.
Provisions for liabilities
A provision is recognised where the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Company becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair 
value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue 
and finance cost.
2. Profit attributable to members of the parent company
The profit within the financial statements of the parent company is £54,643,000 (2014: £40,888,000).
3. Investments
Associates
Subsidiary and joint
undertakings ventures Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At 29 December 2013 14,099 4,886 18,985
Share options granted to subsidiary employees 324 – 324
At 28 December 2014 14,423 4,886 19,309
Share options granted to subsidiary employees 993 – 993
At 27 December 2015 15,416 4,886 20,302
Net book value at 27 December 2015 15,416 4,886 20,302
Net book value at 28 December 2014 14,423 4,886 19,309 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
3. Investments continued
Details of the investments in which the Company holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital are detailed in note 35 
of the Group section.
During the period, the Company acquired the remaining shareholding of its joint venture in Germany, HJS Pizza Deutschland Limited.
4. Debtors
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 96,355 106,532
5. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 78,471 68,158
Other creditors 88 88
Accruals and deferred income 1,333 180
79,892 68,426
6. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Loans repayable are analysed as follows:
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
£000 £000
Bank revolving facility – 14,836
Bank loans – wholly repayable within five years – –
– 14,836
Bank revolving facility
Interest charged on the term loan was 1.10% per annum above LIBOR. The term loan matured on 31 January 2015 on which date facilities reduced to 
£30,000,000. Interest charged on the revolving credit facility is 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee. The facility expires 
on 10 August 2017. Arrangement fees of £111,659 (2014: £372,000) directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying value of 
the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility. The facility is secured by an unlimited cross-guarantee between the Company, 
Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 117
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. Authorised and issued share capital
Authorised share capital
At At
27 December 28 December
2015 2014
Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each:
– number 256,000,000 256,000,000
– value (£) 4,000,000 4,000,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital
At 27 December At 28 December
2015 2014
Number £ Number £
At 28 December 2014 and 29 December 2013 165,909,532 2,592,335 164,497,341 2,570,270
Issued on exercise of share options 893,156 13,951 532,191 8,315
Issued on acquisition – – 880,000 13,750
At 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014 166,802,688 2,606,286 165,909,532 2,592,335
During the period 893,156 (2014: 532,782) Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each with a nominal value of £13,951 (2014: £8,315) were issued between 
107.03p (2014: 64.53p) and 534.5p (2014: 482.4p) for a total cash consideration received of £3,572,253 (2014: £2,031,000) to satisfy the share 
options that were exercised.
In addition during the prior period the company issued 880,000 shares on purchasing the remaining 25% shareholding of DP Cyco Limited from 
its non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited.
8. Share-based payments
The total charge recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 was 
£1,328,000 (2014: £899,000). This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions. Of this total, a charge of £335,000 (2014: charge 
of £579,000) relates to employees of the Company and a charge of £993,000 (2014: £324,000) relates to shares options granted to employees of 
subsidiaries. The FRS 20 cost relating to employees of subsidiaries is recorded as an increase in the cost of investment. For full disclosures relating 
to the total charge for the period including grants to both employees of the Company and its subsidiaries please refer to note 31 of the Group 
financial statements. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
9. Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds and movements on reserves
Share Capital Capital Profit Equity
Share premium redemption reserve – Other and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve own shares reserve account funds
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 29 December 2013 2,570 20,156 425 (1) 3,432 5,190 31,772
Proceeds from share issue 8 2,023 – – – – 2,031
Issue of ordinary shares on 
acquisition of minority interest 14 3,418 – – (3,432) – –
Share buybacks – – – (2,237) – – (2,237)
Share transaction charges – – – – – (142) (142)
Vesting of LTIP grants – – – – – (2,769) (2,769)
Profit for the period – – – – – 40,888 40,888
Share option and LTIP charge – – – – – 6,027 6,027
Share options granted 
to subsidiary employees – – – – – 324 324
Equity dividends paid – – – – – (27,480) (27,480)
At 28 December 2014 2,592 25,597 425 (2,238) – 22,039 48,416
Proceeds from share issue 14 3,558 – – – – 3,572
Share transaction charges – – – – – (8) (8)
Profit for the period – – – – – 54,643 54,643
Share option and LTIP charge – – – – – 335 335
Share options granted to 
subsidiary employees – – – – – 993 993
Equity dividends paid – – – – – (31,006) (31,006)
At 27 December 2015 2,606 29,155 425 (2,238) – 46,995 76,943
Capital reserve – own shares
This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as ‘treasury shares’. The shares held by the 
EBT were purchased in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) and 
other incentive schemes. At 27 December 2015, the Trust held 56,252 (2014: 56,252) shares, which had a historic cost of £879 (2014: £879). 
These shares had a market value at 27 December 2015 of £573,770 (2014: £393,764). The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
During the period the Company did not acquire any of its own shares (2014: 380,000 of its own shares of 1.5625p each for a total consideration 
of £2,237,000). The shares are held as ‘treasury shares’. The Company has the right to reissue these shares at later date.
Other reserve
In 2013, the other reserve related to the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of Domino’s Germany, being 880,000 Ordinary shares 
on the opening of the 35th Domino’s store in Germany. During the period ended 28 December 2014, the Company purchased the remaining 25% 
shareholding of DP Cyco Ltd from its non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited.
Profit and loss account
During 2015 the company received dividend income of £60m which has been recognised as part of distributable reserves. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 119
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28 December
27 December 2014 29 December 30 December 25 December
2015 (restated) 2013 2012 2011
Trading weeks 52 52 52 53 52
System sales (£m)
1
877.2 757.8 668.8 598.6 530.6
Group revenue (£m) 316.8 288.7 268.9 240.5 209.9
Underlying profit before tax (£000) 73,163 62,146 47,601 46,701 42,156
Statutory profit before tax (£000) 73,163 62,102 21,590 42,369 38,789
Basic earnings per share (pence)
– Statutory 35.7 29.8 24.0 22.1 19.5
– Underlying 35.7 29.9 10.7 19.0 16.7
Diluted earnings per share (pence)
– Statutory 35.3 29.6 23.9 22.0 19.2
– Underlying 35.3 29.7 10.7 18.9 16.5
Dividends per share (pence) 20.75 17.50 15.90 14.50 12.30
Underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation 
and amortisation (£000) 79,890 68,624 53,714 47,894 42,646
Adjusted net cash/(debt) (£000)
2
40,422 10,958 (13,564) (22,964) (15,297)
Adjusted gearing ratio (0.5) (0.2) 0.3 0.5 0.4
Stores at start of year 872 835 805 726 665
Stores opened 65 41 57 69 62
Stores acquired – – – 12 2
Stores closed (6) (4) (4) (2) (3)
Stores at year-end 931 872 858 805 726
Corporate stores at year-end 15 11 20 23 5
UK like-for-like sales growth (%) 11.7% 11.3% 7.0% 
3
5.0% 
3
3.7%
1 Sales from all stores in the UK, ROI, Germany and Switzerland to the public. Continuing operations exclude Germany – see footnote 4.
2 Excludes non-recourse loans, Germany non-controlling interest loan and share buyback obligation.
3 Compared to the comparable 52-week period in the prior year.
4 2015 from continuing operations (2014 restated); 2011-2013 not restated.
Five-year financial summary
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Shareholder information
Advisers and principal service providers
Registered office
1 Thornbury
West Ashland
Milton Keynes
MK6 4BB
01908 580000
Investor website: corporate.dominos.co.uk
Broker and corporate finance advisers
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
No.1 Colmore Square
Birmingham
B4 6HQ
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
Ashton House
497 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2LD
Solicitors
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
If you hold your shares direct and not through a Savings Scheme 
or ISA and have queries relating to your shareholding, please contact 
the registrars:
 o Callers in the UK: 0371 384 2895 
(calls cost 8p per minute plus network charges).
 o Callers from outside the UK: +44 121 415 0926.
Lines are open from 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Monday to Friday 
(excluding UK Bank Holidays). 
Shareholders can also access details of their holding and other 
information on the registrars’ website, www.shareview.co.uk.
The registrars provide an online share dealing service for those who are 
not seeking advice on buying or selling, available at www.selftrade.co.uk.
The registrars also offer a range of other dealing and investment 
services, which are explained on their website, www.shareview.co.uk.
Handle with care…
Shareholders tell us that they sometimes receive unsolicited 
approaches, normally by telephone, inviting them to undertake 
a transaction in shares they own. 
If you do not know the source of the call, check the details against 
the FCA website below and, if you have any specific information, 
report it to the FCA using the Consumer Helpline or the Online 
Reporting Form. 
If you have any concerns whatsoever, do not take any action 
and do not part with any money without being certain that: 
 o you fully understand the transaction;
 o you know who you are dealing with and that they are registered 
with and authorised by the FCA; and
 o you have consulted a financial adviser if you have any doubts. 
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it almost certainly is. 
You run the risk of losing any money you part with. 
If you are worried that you may already have been a victim of fraud, 
report the facts immediately using the Action Fraud Helpline. 
Should you want any more information about ‘boiler room’ and other 
investment-based fraud, this can be found on two websites:
Action Fraud Helpline 
0300 123 2040
Action Fraud Website
www.actionfraud.police.uk
FCA Consumer Helpline
0845 606 1234
FCA Scams & Swindles Website
www.fca.org.uk/scams   
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities. Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Domino’s Pizza Group plc
1 Thornbury, West Ashland, 
Milton Keynes MK6 4BB
