 DTZ Holdings plc
125 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 2BQ
Telephone +44 (0)20 3296 3000
www.dtz.com
DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
DTZ Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.dtz.com
www.dtz.com
Visit our website to find out more about our:
• Services
• Markets
• Properties
• Research
• News
Our website is available in over 20 languages.
This report has been printed on revive 50:50 Silk paper. This paper is made from 50% pre and post consumer 
waste and 50% virgin wood fibre, independently certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship 
Council). It is manufactured at a mill that is certified to ISO14001 environmental management standards. 
The pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
Published by Black Sun Plc +44 (0)20 7736 0011 
Photography by Paul Harmer, Jason Scott and John Deehan
DTZ is a global real estate adviser providing leading‑edge property 
insight and on‑the‑ground delivery to investors, developers, corporate 
and public sector occupiers, and financial intermediaries across the 
breadth of their real estate needs.
We are a global firm but we recognise that our clients’ needs are 
tied to the local markets in which they invest, develop, and operate. 
Deep knowledge of local markets has always been a cornerstone 
of DTZ across its offices worldwide. In fact we go one step further 
– actively sharing our knowledge to bring the best of our global 
expertise to each and every client assignment.
In summary, our global team is united by a single focus – to deliver 
our clients exceptional service, rooted in a deep understanding 
of their needs and a commitment to long‑term success.
www.dtz.com 1 www.dtz.com 
Overview
Directors’ Report –  
Business Review
Directors’ Report –  
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Financial Highlights and Corporate Progress	 1
Group Overview 2
Chairman’s Statement 4
Chief Executive’s Review 6
Strategy and KPIs 10
Financial Review 11
Risks and Uncertainties 14
Operating Review 16
Corporate Responsibility 22
Board of Directors 24
Statement of Corporate Governance 26
Directors’ Remuneration Report 30
Other Statutory Information 39
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 42
Independent Auditors’ Report 43
Consolidated Income Statement 44
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss 45
Consolidated and Company Statement of Financial Position 46
Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity 47
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement 49
Notes to the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement 50
Notes to the Financial Statements 51
Five Year Record 80
Shareholder Analysis 81
Financial Calendar and Advisers 82
Financial Highlights Corporate Progress
Significantly strengthened balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents increased 34 per cent to £50.6 million 
(2009: £37.8 million) 
Net debt reduced to £47.5 million (2009: £50.8 million)
Completed strategic review and  
restructuring programme
Delivered cost savings of over £75 million; greater and sooner 
than initial expectations
Management, people and systems in place 
to drive profitable organic growth
Business reshaped and positioned for growth; DTZ now well 
placed to compete aggressively in chosen markets
Profit before tax and 
exceptional items (£m)
Revenue (£m)
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
232.4
310.3
446.3
364.1
356.0
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
29.7
38.0
20.6
loss: 35.1
3.6
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
32.0
41.8
30.2
loss: 21.8
16.4 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
2
Group Overview
What we do
Occupational & 
Development Markets
Advice and transaction execution on behalf of 
landlords and developers, and the management 
of changing accommodation requirements on 
behalf of occupiers, across the office, industrial, 
logistics, and retail sectors.
Revenue £118.5m
(2009: £110.6m)
Read more on 
Professional Services
Property and facilities management, 
alongside project management and 
building consultancy services to support 
corporate, occupier, and investor clients.
Revenue £93.7m
(2009: £94.4m)
Read more on 
Valuation
Valuation, appraisal and due diligence 
services for a range of clients, including 
investors, corporate and public sector 
owners, lenders and fund managers for 
a variety of purposes including assessing 
potential transactions, asset financing, 
financial reporting and IPO listings.
Revenue £60.8m
(2009: £74.1m)
Read more on 
Investment Agency*
Advice on the sale, acquisition and funding 
of real estate with specialists in the office, 
business parks, retail, industrial, logistics 
and residential sectors. 
Revenue £46.6m
(2009: £38.9m)
Read more on 
Investment & 
Asset Management*
Working in long‑term partnership with clients 
to achieve their specific risk/return objectives 
from their property portfolios through 
strategic advice, portfolio management 
and transaction services. 
Revenue £13.8m
(2009: £18.1m)
Read more on 
Consulting & Research
Consultancy services for public and private 
sector clients to align real estate strategies 
to business objectives, alongside delivery 
of complex development and regeneration 
projects. Our Research offering supports 
clients and other DTZ service lines.
Revenue £22.6m
(2009: £28.0m)
Read more on 
* Investment Agency and Investment & Asset Management were previously reported as Capital Markets.
p16 p17 p18
p19 p20 p21 3 www.dtz.com 
Revenue
£145.7m
Countries
2
Cities
16
Direct employees
1,500
Revenue
£91.5m
Countries
26
Cities
66
Direct employees
950
Revenue
£98.5m
Countries
10
Cities
34
Direct employees
1,900
Revenue
£20.3m
Countries
2
Cities
24
Direct employees
250
UK & Ireland CEMEA Asia Pacific The Americas
In our first ‘home market’ we are 
a long established trusted client 
partner and regional heavyweight 
– with one of the largest regional 
networks. Our leading central 
London practice works alongside 
our regional teams to serve some 
of the world’s largest names.
With operations in 26 countries 
and a presence in all major 
central business districts across 
continental Europe, the Middle 
East, and Africa, DTZ has one of 
the most comprehensive networks 
in the region. Local market 
expertise joined with seamless 
cross border delivery and a 
full‑service capability underpins 
the brand’s strength and reputation 
for excellence in the market.
With strong market positions 
across the region from Sydney 
to Tokyo and a dominant 
market share among the major 
real estate advisory firms in 
China – our second ‘home 
market’ – the Group continues 
to grow in the region adding 
new offices and services.
Combining one of the largest 
full‑service commercial real 
estate advisory businesses 
in Canada, with our Global 
Corporate Services team across 
the United States, which serves 
the occupational requirements of 
large multi‑national corporations, 
the business in the Americas 
meets the needs of both domestic 
and international clients locally as 
well as across the DTZ network.
Where we do it During the year, DTZ again provided multiple services to HSBC in a 
range of countries. These included identifying back office locations 
in Eastern Europe, tenant rep in the Middle East, loan and mortgage 
valuations and investment advice in Asia.
Services supplied:  
Occupational & Development Markets
Professional Services
Valuation
Investment Agency
Investment & Asset Management
Consulting & Research
In October 2009, DTZ was appointed as Pfizer’s Strategic Real Estate 
Partner for North and South East Asia. This is a three year contract 
to deliver forward‑looking portfolio planning, strategic advice and 
transactions, expanding DTZ’s existing mandate on small transactions.
Services supplied:  
 Occupational & Development Markets
Professional Services
Valuation
Investment Agency
Investment & Asset Management
Consulting & Research
How we do it
A longstanding partnership HSBC A broadened service offer PFIZER DTZ continues working with Vodafone and delivering projects around 
the world, as one of its four preferred global estates advisers. Projects 
have included acquisitions in India and lease restructuring across the 
UK, Greece and Spain.
Services supplied:  
 Occupational & Development Markets
Professional Services
Valuation
Investment Agency
Investment & Asset Management
Consulting & Research
DTZ’s fifth year working with Yahoo! has been an active one. DTZ has 
undertaken global transaction and project management services and 
taken advantage of market conditions to deliver operational savings 
for Yahoo!
Services supplied:  
Occupational & Development Markets
Professional Services
Valuation
Investment Agency
Investment & Asset Management
Consulting & Research
A growing relationship VODAFONE Delivering operational efficiencies YAHOO! DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
4
Chairman’s Statement
While the economic and market 
environment of the past 12 months 
continued to pose challenges, the 
year for DTZ as a business has been 
a good one – a year of significant 
corporate progress and one which 
has seen us return to profitability 
on an operating level.
This time last year I spoke about the 
important steps management had begun, 
and would continue to take, to transform 
DTZ into a more competitive, responsive 
and ultimately profitable business. While we 
would not conclude this work is complete, 
that we have made major advancements 
in achieving these aims is indisputable.
Results
In light of the varying degrees of recovery 
we saw across our markets during the year 
it is encouraging to report that revenue 
for the year ended 30 April 2010 declined 
by only 2.2 per cent to £356.0 million 
(2009: £364.1 million).
The success of the Group’s restructuring 
programme can be seen in the significant 
improvement in our operating results, 
where the Group made a profit before 
tax and exceptional items of £3.6 million 
(2009: loss £35.1 million). 
After exceptional items the Group reported 
a loss before tax of £22.9 million (2009: loss 
£79.7 million). 
Further details of the results, exceptional 
charges and the Group’s cash position 
are given in the Financial Review.
The Board continues to believe it is in the 
best interests of the Group to continue to 
maintain the strength of its balance sheet, 
and therefore has decided not to declare 
a final dividend. The total dividend for 
the year is therefore nil (2009: nil).
Restructuring 
During the year we completed the Group’s 
far‑reaching restructuring programme and are 
pleased with the significant benefits in terms 
of cost savings and improved efficiencies 
which these actions have delivered. 
The Group now operates with increased 
proficiency, clear reporting lines and vastly 
improved information systems, ensuring 
management decisions are informed, 
timely and operationally enhancing. 
We will of course continue to review 
the business in line with our strategy 
and ensure it is appropriately matched 
to market conditions. 
Tim Melville‑Ross
Group Chairman
Our vision
To be the best firm in the real estate services industry, 
for our clients, our staff and our shareholders – where 
we choose to compete.
Our values
•  We put our clients’ interests first
•  We are one firm
•  We deliver exceptional service to our 
clients and to each other – always
•  We hire, develop and reward top performers 5 www.dtz.com     
Management
Last year when I reported the creation 
of the Group’s Executive Committee, 
which is responsible for the day to day 
running of the Company, I referred to 
one more appointment that remained to 
be filled. I am pleased to report that since 
the year end, Menno Maas has joined DTZ 
as our Chief Executive Officer for CEMEA 
and completes the membership of this 
committee. Menno has over 25 years’ 
real estate experience and was latterly 
CEO of ING Real Estate Development.
Board Changes
On behalf of the Board, I would like firstly 
to thank Peter Stone, who retired from the 
Group’s Board this year after nine years in 
his role as an Independent Non‑Executive 
Director. The Group has benefited greatly 
from the work, support and advice he 
provided over the years. 
Secondly, I would like to welcome 
Lorraine Baldry to the Board as an 
Independent Non‑Executive Director. 
Lorraine brings with her extensive knowledge 
and experience from across the real estate 
sector and is a current Board member 
of the Olympic Delivery Authority and 
Chairman of its Planning Committee.
Board Governance
The recent global economic crisis has 
highlighted more than ever the necessity 
of ensuring effective corporate governance 
within an organisation, and the Board of 
DTZ takes this very seriously. More detail 
is provided in the Corporate Governance 
report, but we have a well‑balanced 
Board including effective involvement from 
representatives of our majority shareholder 
who are well aware of their responsibilities 
to all shareholders, a committee structure 
which ensures the proper degree of attention 
to the key issues confronting the Group, 
and a thorough process of evaluation 
which assures us that the Board structure 
is working effectively and flexibly. 
Additionally, the Board has considered 
carefully the need to appoint a Senior 
Independent Director and concluded 
that Lorraine Baldry, who joined the Board 
on 1 April 2010, should be nominated as 
Senior Independent Director once she 
has had the opportunity to acquaint 
herself fully with the Company.
Employees
On behalf of the Board and senior 
management I would like to thank each 
and every person at DTZ for the important 
role they have played in getting the Company 
to where it is today – back on track and well 
positioned for the future. 
As well as continuing to deliver the 
exceptional client service for which we 
are renowned, our employees also helped 
us to reduce our cost base through their 
support of the temporary reduction to staff 
remuneration packages. Both of these 
factors contributed to our much improved 
results for this financial year. As originally 
planned, these temporary measures will 
expire this summer and I would like to 
put on record our gratitude and thank 
our employees for their participation.
Looking forward, we recognise that the 
ongoing success of the business relies 
on retaining our top talent, and we are 
therefore committed to rewarding our 
employees around the world for their 
contributions with a clear emphasis on 
recognising outperformance. Further, we 
will continue the work we have begun over 
the last 12 months to introduce and refine 
performance aligned reward programmes 
and selectively invest in the way we 
manage and grow our teams. 
Outlook
The last financial year has undoubtedly 
been a year in which DTZ has made 
much progress.
We ended the year with a stronger balance 
sheet, an enviable brand, exceptional 
client relationships, and a talented 
and committed workforce.
From this strong position we must now 
look to the future, turning our attention 
to the profitable growth of the business. 
Despite the considerable economic 
uncertainty which remains around the 
globe, and the varying degrees of recovery 
across the markets in which we operate, 
we feel that, whilst remaining cautious, 
the progress that we have made over the 
past year leaves us well placed to meet 
the challenges, and take advantage of 
the opportunities, that we expect to face 
in the current financial year and beyond.
Tim Melville‑Ross
Group Chairman
13 July 2010 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
6
Chief Executive’s Review
The past 12 months have been a 
productive time for DTZ. Although 
conditions remain challenging in 
many of our key markets, we restored 
profitability on an operating basis and 
the tangible benefits from our recent 
restructuring are now embedded in 
the business and have positioned 
us well for future growth.
Certain results of that restructuring such as 
lowered staff costs and improved operating 
margins were of course a priority at the time. 
However, of equal importance then, and what 
matters even more as we move forward, 
is how the restructuring has made the firm 
better positioned to deliver results for our 
clients. I am specifically referring to the fact 
that DTZ increasingly operates today with 
a ‘One Firm’ approach, working across our 
service lines to deliver responsive, creative 
solutions to clients’ real estate needs in all 
of our markets across the globe. This change 
is key and will make a real difference to the 
business in the years to come.
Performance
Revenues for the financial year ended 
30 April 2010 reduced slightly by 2.2 per 
cent to £356.0 million (2009: £364.1 million). 
However, after normalising for the effect 
of discontinued or disposed entities, 
the Group grew revenues by 1.5 per cent 
to £351.4 million (2009: £346.3 million) 
on a like-for-like basis.
As a result of the significant cost reduction 
programme undertaken we delivered a 
small profit before tax and exceptional items 
of £3.6 million (2009: loss £35.1 million). 
After exceptional items and before tax 
we reported a loss of £22.9 million 
(2009: loss £79.7 million). 
Despite the continuing uncertainty during 
the year in many of our markets, we benefited 
from our strong market positions across 
Asia Pacific and especially in China. 
Indeed, led by China, the Asia Pacific 
region delivered strong revenue growth 
and a robust performance. Interestingly, 
the growth trajectory in China is having 
a positive impact on one of its biggest 
regional trading partners, Japan, where 
we also enjoyed a good year in our 
Occupational & Development Markets 
and Investment Agency businesses.
In the UK & Ireland, we saw increasing 
activity in the investment and occupier 
markets, led by Central London.
CEMEA continued to face challenging 
conditions throughout the year, but Paris 
stood out as an exception and remained 
an investment alternative to London.
Strategic objectives
•  To be the best firm in the real estate services industry
•  To take a ‘One Firm’ approach in everything we do
•  To provide ‘best in class’ services to our clients 
wherever we choose to compete
Paul T. Idzik
Group Chief Executive 7 www.dtz.com     
In Canada, a country that has come through 
the financial crisis relatively unscathed, our 
business has remained in good shape. 
Strategic Review and Restructuring 
The strategic review and restructuring 
programme we started back in 2008 is 
now complete and I am pleased to report 
that we have managed to achieve cost 
savings of over £75 million. Of that amount, 
circa £55 million came from structural staff 
cost savings and over £20 million from 
savings in operating expenses. 
There are three important points to be 
made about the restructuring:
First, DTZ professionals never allowed the 
inherent demands of the initiative to distract 
from the continuing objective of being the 
‘best in class’ in delivering tangible results 
for our clients.
Second, we not only exceeded our initial 
cost reduction targets, we also delivered 
them ahead of schedule.
Finally, the restructuring should be seen 
as part of a deep‑rooted and enduring 
approach, not as a ‘one‑off’ exercise. 
As we look to achieve sustainable profitability 
we will be constantly reviewing the shape 
of the business to ensure that it is fit for our 
clients both geographically and by service 
line. This flexibility will allow us to meet our 
clients’ evolving requirements – a good 
example is our expansion into Vietnam.
Corporate Development
The Group has announced its intention to 
purchase the remaining 20 per cent of DTZ 
Asset Management Europe SAS which it 
does not already own. Asset management 
is a key business for DTZ and an area we 
have highlighted as a growth priority. If the 
proposed acquisition is approved by DTZ’s 
shareholders, DTZ Asset Management 
Europe SAS will become a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Group. 
The Market and DTZ
In 2009, the two major markets which 
bucked the trend of continuing declines 
in real estate transaction volumes were 
the UK and Asia Pacific. These are DTZ’s 
two strongest markets.
In the UK, where investors were attracted 
by the depreciation in sterling as well as 
the depth and sophistication of the market, 
transaction volumes were flat compared 
to the previous year, according to DTZ 
Research. Quite remarkable, considering 
that transaction volumes globally were 
down 35 per cent year‑on‑year. 
The UK was also able to attract capital 
from international investors at a time when 
global cross border flows were down nearly 
60 per cent year‑on‑year. For a business 
such as ours, which thrives on transactional 
activity, the performance of the UK in tough 
economic conditions is heartening.
The picture becomes even brighter when 
you consider that Asia Pacific was the only 
region showing growth in cross‑ border flows 
into Europe. We hold strong market positions 
across the Asia Pacific region and continue 
to invest there. Our ability to facilitate the 
movement of that capital and then advise 
on the execution of a transaction is one 
of the many reasons why the ‘One Firm’ 
approach is so essential to the future of DTZ.
As we look to the future, we are seeing the early 
signs of those cross‑border flows spreading 
out further afield than just London. In 2009, the 
market saw activity from institutional investors in 
Asia targeting the UK, in particular London, but 
more recently there has been growing interest 
towards markets such as Paris and Berlin. While 
we expect European activity to slowly pick up in 
the coming year, it will in all likelihood be focused 
on those countries with higher credit ratings 
such as France and Germany, where we also 
have well established and strong businesses. 
Those Eurozone countries struggling under 
the weight of huge budget deficits will have 
a harder time attracting investment capital.
We also have grounds for optimism in 
the amount of new equity capital available 
200
150
100
50
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
 Europe (ex UK) UK US Asia Paciﬁc
Global quarterly transaction volumes (2005 – 2009)
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
US$bn
Source: DTZ Research, REIS, Property Data
Global Market Environment
Global investment volumes totalled US$191bn in 2009, representing a 35 per cent decline 
compared with 2008, and more than a two third decline on the annual level reached at the 
peak of the cycle in 2007. However, with investment volumes having hit the bottom in Q1 
2009, quarterly volumes have been growing since then. The sustainability of this recovery 
however remains uncertain.
10
US Emerging Asia
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
 Actual Forecast
Global economic outlook − annual GDP growth
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
EU
%
Source: Oxford Economics
Forecasts indicate regional and global growth returning in 2010. While the EU is 
expected to lag somewhat the US and Asia, it will be heading towards trend growth 
by 2011/2012 – consequently we are now at the start of the new economic cycle. DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
8
Chief Executive’s Review continued
to offset the debt funding gap – the gap 
created when the amount of a loan available 
to refinance a commercial property is less than 
the original loan itself. DTZ Research estimates 
that in Europe alone there is €116 billion of 
such equity capital available to European real 
estate over the next two years. As the banks 
continue tightening their loan to value ratios, 
we believe increasing pressures on both 
equity investors and lenders will result in a 
greater urgency to find effective and creative 
solutions and create transactions.
In Asia Pacific, where we hold a dominant 
share of the market among non‑domestic 
firms, we expect that by 2011 China will 
have overtaken Japan as the second largest 
real estate market in the world. Our decision 
during the year to extend our Investment 
Management business to Asia Pacific is a 
clear sign of our confidence in that market.
Strategy 
The long‑term strategic objectives of DTZ 
have not changed. By taking a ‘One Firm’ 
approach in everything we do, we intend 
to become the best real estate services firm 
for our clients, in every market where we 
choose to operate. We will look to provide 
sustainable returns for our shareholders, 
and will do so by fostering a culture for our 
staff that is both dynamic and rewarding. 
At the start of our 2009/10 financial year, 
we indicated that growing market share 
organically in those markets that offered 
the best prospects would be a priority for 
us. In order to lay the foundation for that 
growth, we completed a strategic review 
of our operations that led us to exit a small 
number of loss‑making and non‑strategic 
areas and to focus our investments into 
more attractive markets.
We are already seeing the results of our 
focused efforts in those chosen markets, 
demonstrated by the significant growth 
in revenues in China and the growth of 
our Investment Management business 
which won four new mandates during 
the year collectively totalling £510.0 
million. These allocations taken together 
with existing Assets under Management 
would represent £2.0 billion of funds under 
management or a 40 per cent increase.
At the same time, we made a number 
of senior hires focused on driving growth 
during the year that allowed us to 
significantly enhance our client offering 
in certain parts of the world. They included 
Hans Vrensen as Global Head of Research 
and David Schaefer as Head of the 
Investment Management business in Asia 
Pacific. Additionally, recent appointments 
in our North Asia business have targeted 
the fast‑growing domestic and international 
requirements of major Chinese businesses 
and included a Head of Valuation and 
an Occupier Services team, focusing on 
exporting Chinese occupational business 
overseas, once again capitalising on our 
cross border capabilities. 
A second strategic priority for last year was 
the completion of our firm‑wide strategic 
review and restructuring. As I mentioned 
earlier in my review this is now complete. 
It delivered the desired cost reduction 
and was brought in ahead of schedule.
Our final strategic priority for the year was 
the continued build‑out of a global operating 
platform to support the ‘One Firm’ approach 
at DTZ. Alongside increasing efficiencies, 
we wanted to provide the necessary 
infrastructure to facilitate more cross‑selling 
among service lines and more cross‑border 
teamwork on behalf of clients for whom 
that is becoming more important.
While work continues, we have begun to 
see the initial benefits of more timely and 
accurate financial information, more uniform 
HR processes, and better client relationship 
management information. 
As we look ahead to the current financial 
year, we have identified three strategic 
priorities which build on our progress to 
date. Overarching all these priorities is our 
commitment to attract, retain and develop 
the best talent in the industry in order 
to drive the business forward.
First, we intend to pursue sustainable 
profitable organic revenue growth in all 
markets in which we operate, but specifically 
those markets where we see the most viable 
opportunities – in the near‑term China and 
the UK, and from our annuity businesses, 
Investment & Asset Management and 
Property Management. Alongside these 
primary targets, as opportunities arise 
to leverage opportunities from our global 
transactional businesses we will, of course, 
continue to act on these. 
We believe our strength in China coupled 
with its strong growth, capital flows and 
rapidly expanding commercial real estate 
market, merits special consideration for 
strategic investment moving forward.
Just as importantly we will target 
investment capital for the UK – a 
market that is already seeing initial 
signs of recovery and one in which 
we have a very strong regional presence.
Among our service lines, we intend 
to invest in our Property Management 
business where we believe an enhanced 
offering will improve value to clients and 
our margins. Meanwhile our award winning 
Investment & Asset Management business 
has also been targeted for investment as 
a way to further propel growth.
However, we will not pursue any opportunity 
simply for the sake of it; nor do we intend 
to disrupt our progress toward growth with 
an opportunity that could be distracting. 
The objective to ultimately expand our 
pre‑tax profit margins will guide any 
investment decision.
Our measure of the success of this 
strategy will be how well we deliver 
consistent growth in revenues coupled 
with improving pre‑tax profits.
The second strategic priority for the 
year will be the continuation of our cost 
containment initiatives, ensuring the cost 
conscious culture put in place in the last 
financial year endures into the future. 
At the same time, we will adopt a ‘fit for 
purpose’ cost ethic that focuses investment 
to drive a positive impact on our revenue 
generating capabilities.
We have given ourselves some aggressive 
targets by which to measure our success 
against this strategy. Over the cycle we 
intend to reduce our staff costs to revenue 
ratio to 60 per cent – a target that betters 
our historical norms. In the same vein, having 
this year reached our 30 per cent target for 
non‑staff costs to revenue ratio, we intend 
to reduce this further. 9 www.dtz.com 
Our final strategic priority entails deepening 
our current client relationships by delivering 
the benefits of the ‘One Firm’ approach to 
which I repeatedly refer. This approach 
is already being welcomed by clients 
in a variety of ways – by the ease with 
which they can work with DTZ through one 
contact; by the knowledge that if they have 
a requirement arising on a local or global 
scale, this will be dealt with seamlessly; 
and by knowing that the moment an initial 
instruction moves beyond a particular 
service line, the entire breadth of knowledge 
and experience across DTZ can be quickly 
and efficiently brought to bear.
We will measure our success in 
strengthening our client relationships 
by the growth in the number of clients 
from whom the Group derives revenues 
in excess of £0.5 million per annum.
Summary 
Having returned to profitability at an 
operating level, our main strategic priority 
for the coming year and beyond has to be 
to focus on driving revenue growth, while 
expanding our pre‑tax profit margins, 
which in turn will enable us to deliver 
improved shareholder value. 
Our management model remains very 
clear and DTZ professionals globally know 
what is expected of them; they are on the 
front foot in delivering world‑class client 
service levels and new business mandates. 
Together we have achieved a great deal 
over the past 12 months for our clients and 
shareholders, and as we look to the future, 
and the long term success of the Company, 
I am confident that we can maintain this 
momentum to continue building a highly 
profitable business of which we can all 
be proud.
Whatever satisfaction DTZ takes from 
its efforts over the past year, we realise we 
have just begun the journey to become the 
best firm in the real estate services industry.
Paul T. Idzik
Group Chief Executive
13 July 2010
Measuring our performance
Our strategic priorities and progress
The Board is responsible for agreeing and monitoring 
implementation of the Group’s strategy. To measure the 
Group’s progress against 2010/11 strategic priorities 
the Board has introduced some key performance 
indicators (KPIs). Using these KPIs the Group will 
report back on progress in next year’s Annual Report.
The Group’s Executive Committee (photographed 
above) is responsible for proposing and implementing 
the strategy of the Company.
See page 10 for details of our 2009/10 strategic priorities, 
our achievements to date, as well as our new priorities 
for 2010/11, and how we will measure our performance.
Executive Committee
Back row:  John Forrester, Head of UK & Ireland; Paul Idzik, Group Chief Executive; 
Killian O’Higgins, Chief Executive Officer of Asia Pacific
Front row:  Menno Maas, Chief Executive Officer of CEMEA; Bob Rickert, Group Finance Director & 
Global Chief Operating Officer; Isaac Krymolowski, Global Head of Consulting & Research; 
Serkan Bektas, Global Head of Investment & Asset Management DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
10
Chief Executive’s Review continued
2009/10 Strategic Priorities Progress
Increase market share through organic growth 
in chosen markets
• Significant increase in revenues from China
• Growth of Investment Management business – four new 
mandates totalling £510 million
• Number of global senior hires focused on driving growth
Complete far‑reaching strategic review 
and restructuring programme 
• Exited a small number of loss‑making and non‑strategic 
businesses; focused investments into more attractive markets
• Delivered cost savings of over £75 million – exceeded expectations 
and delivered ahead of schedule
Continue implementing ‘One Firm’ approach • Global and regional heads appointed to facilitate cross selling 
and seamless cross border service delivery
• Consistent global approach to financial reporting, HR and client 
relationship management
2010/11 Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicators
Pursue sustainable profitable organic revenue growth 
in all markets in which we operate, but specifically:
• Near‑term regional focus on China and UK
• Annuity businesses – namely Investment & Asset Management 
and Property Management
• Leverage opportunities from global transactional businesses
Revenue (£m)
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
232.4
310.3
446.3
364.1
356.0
Target: To grow profitable revenues
Continuation of cost containment initiatives:
• Embed cost conscious culture introduced last financial year 
into the Group
• Adopt a ‘fit for purpose’ cost ethic that focuses investment 
to drive a positive impact on revenue generating capabilities
Staff costs to revenue ratio (%)
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
62.1
62.9
67.3
74.0
67.7
Target: To reduce the staff costs to revenue ratio to 60 per cent over 
the cycle, a target that betters our historical norms
Non‑staff costs to revenue ratio (%)
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
28.0
26.7
29.1
35.1
30.5
Target: To operate below a 30 per cent non‑staff costs to revenue ratio
Deepen client relationships by delivering benefits 
of ‘One Firm’ approach:
• Clients increasingly served through one DTZ contact
• Bring the best of DTZ to clients – requirements handled 
seamlessly irrespective of local or global nature
• Enhanced cross‑selling across service lines and geographies
Number of clients from whom Group derives revenues 
in excess of £0.5 million*
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
110
Target: To grow the number of clients from whom the Group derives 
revenues in excess of £0.5 million per annum
 
Strategy and KPIs
*  2010 is the first year we have collected data for this KPI. We will continue to measure 
and report on this year‑ on‑ year. 11 www.dtz.com     
The 2009/10 financial year saw 
challenging conditions remain in 
many of our markets. However, as a 
result of the far‑reaching restructuring 
programme which continued 
throughout the year, the Group 
is pleased to report a significant 
improvement in its operating results, 
delivering a profit before tax and 
exceptional items of £3.6 million, 
having made an equivalent loss 
of £35.1 million in 2008/09. 
EBITDA has improved to a loss of 
£3.2 million (2009: loss £66.4 million). 
EBITDA adjusted to exclude the effect 
of exceptional items moves to a profit 
of £16.4 million (2009: loss £21.8 million). 
This is a clear demonstration of the success 
of our actions against the background of 
a challenging market and despite a small 
decline in revenues to £356.0 million 
(2009: £364.1 million). After normalising 
for the effect of discontinued or disposed 
entities, the Group’s revenue rose by 
1.5 per cent to £351.4 million (2009: 
£346.3 million).
The improvements we have made to our 
financial controls and systems have been 
embedded across our business and are 
now part of our everyday existence. They 
provide a bedrock for our financial planning 
and enable the Company to move forward 
with greater clarity and confidence.
Completion of Strategic Review 
and Restructuring
As reported last year, the Group has 
been undertaking a strategic review of its 
operations to identify ways of enhancing the 
profitability and margins of the core business. 
The strategic review is now complete and 
as a result we have reduced headcount 
and exited a small number of loss 
making and non‑strategic businesses, 
while continuing to ensure our client 
coverage remains uninterrupted.
We originally stated our expectation was to 
achieve at least £50 million in cost savings 
by 30 April 2010 from these measures. 
We have in fact greatly exceeded that 
target achieving cost savings of over £75 
million. Of that amount, circa £55 million 
came from structural staff cost savings 
and over £20 million from savings in 
operating expenses.
Bob Rickert
Group Finance Director  
and Global Chief  
Operating Officer
Highlights
•  Restructuring complete
•  Returned to profitability on an operating basis
•  Revenues increased from continuing operations
•  Strengthened balance sheet
Financial Review DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
12
Financial Review continued
The main actions resulting from our strategic 
review of the business during the year 
were: the sale of our 50 per cent interest 
in Rockwood in the United States; the 
closure of our operation in Russia, where 
DTZ now operates under a franchise 
agreement with its partner in Kazakhstan, 
and the sale of our business in New Zealand. 
During the year, we also acquired the 
remaining 20 per cent minority interest in our 
business in Sweden as part of our strategy 
to fully own our core operations. Following 
year‑end, we have announced the proposed 
acquisition of the remaining 20 per cent of 
DTZ Asset Management Europe SAS that 
we do not own. These actions, together 
with our strengthened balance sheet, have 
positioned the Group for future profitable 
growth as markets recover. 
As a result of our restructuring programme 
we incurred exceptional charges of 
£26.5 million (2009: £44.6 million). Of 
these £13.8 million relate to cash costs 
incurred or provided for during the year 
and £12.7 million are non‑cash charges.
While the strategic review and resulting 
restructuring are now complete, and we 
do not envisage significant changes to our 
geographic footprint, we will remain flexible 
and continue to ensure the business is 
appropriately sized for market conditions. 
Further, where market conditions support 
it, we will invest in our business to ensure 
we are well placed to benefit from areas 
where we see increasing and sustainable 
levels of activity.
Of the £356.0 million of revenue, £4.5 million 
is attributable to discontinued operations 
(2009: £17.7 million) giving an adjusted 
revenue of £351.4 million (2009: £346.3 
million) an increase of 1.5 per cent in the year.
Results
Summary of the Group’s income statement:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Revenue 356.0 364.1
Profit/(loss) before 
taxation and 
exceptional items 3.6 (35.1)
Exceptional items:
Restructuring costs (14.9) (17.3)
Impairments (0.3) (27.3)
Disposal of Russia 
and New Zealand (4.4) –
Refinancing costs (6.9) –
Loss before tax (22.9) (79.7)
Basic loss per share (9.60)p (82.75)p
Earnings/(loss) per share 
adjusted to exclude 
exceptional items 0.74p (40.29)p
Revenue
Despite difficult trading conditions, overall our 
business performed well during the year and 
benefitted from an improved strategic focus 
and the reduction in our cost base. As part of 
our management reorganisation, during the 
year, we divided the ‘Capital Markets’ service 
line into Investment Agency and Investment & 
Asset Management and these businesses are 
reported separately in our Operating Review. 
This new structure reflects our reporting and 
management structures and will help investors 
gain additional clarity on our business. 
In a robust performance by the Group – in 
light of the ongoing challenging economic 
conditions and varying degrees of recovery 
displayed by our markets – revenue declined 
by only 2.2 per cent to £356.0 million (2009: 
£364.1 million). It is a testament to our client 
facing teams and the trust our clients have in 
DTZ that we were able to deliver this revenue 
while simultaneously undertaking such a 
fundamental restructuring of the business. 
Foreign currency movements also had a 
significant impact on our results. On an 
underlying, constant currency basis, our 
revenue decreased to £343.3 million – 
a decline of £20.7 million or 5.7 per cent.
In the UK & Ireland revenues decreased 
to £145.7 million (2009: £162.7 million). 
Our CEMEA business delivered revenues 
of £91.5 million (2009: £103.2 million), 
a decrease of 11.3 per cent, reflecting 
the challenging markets. 
Our Asia Pacific business showed strong 
growth with revenues up 24.1 per cent to 
£98.5 million (2009: £79.4m). Asia Pacific 
is now our second largest market after the 
UK & Ireland, contributing 27.7 per cent 
to the Group’s total revenue.
Despite the sale of DTZ Rockwood which 
contributed £4.5 million of revenues in the 
prior year, The Americas region, which is 
predominately comprised of DTZ Barnicke, 
our Canadian business, reported a growth 
in revenues of £1.5 million to £20.3 million. 
Noteworthy performances from our services 
lines include a 19.8 per cent increase in 
revenues to £46.6 million (2009: £38.9 million) 
by our Investment Agency business and a 7.1 
per cent increase in revenues to £118.5 million 
(2009: £110.6 million) from our Occupational 
& Development Markets business. The 
reduction in revenues from our Investment & 
Asset Management business is attributed to 
a restructuring of our Corporate Finance unit to 
better focus on profitable revenue generation 
and our exit from DTZ Rockwood. Further 
detail on the performance of our services 
lines can be found in the Operating Review.
Revenue by Geography and Service Line
2010 2009
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
CEMEA
1
£m
Asia 
Pacific 
£m
The 
Americas 
£m
Total 
£m %
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
CEMEA
1
£m
Asia 
Pacific 
£m
The 
Americas 
£m
Total 
£m %
Occupational & 
Development Markets 37.1 28.1 34.7 18.6 118.5 33.3 45.2 31.4 22.0 12.1 110.6 30.4
Professional Services 50.7 26.2 16.8 – 93.7 26.3 53.1 24.4 16.9 – 94.4 25.9
Valuation 22.8 17.6 20.4 – 60.8 17.1 30.4 23.4 20.3 – 74.1 20.3
Investment Agency 16.9 7.0 21.0 1.7 46.6 13.1 10.6 8.9 13.8 5.6 38.9 10.7
Investment & Asset Management 4.8 9.0 – – 13.8 3.9 7.8 9.1 0.1 1.1 18.1 5.0
Consulting & Research 13.4 3.6 5.6 – 22.6 6.3 15.8 6.0 6.2 – 28.0 7.7
Total 145.7 91.5 98.5 20.3 356.0 100.0 162.7 103.2 79.4 18.8 364.1 100.0
1
 ‘CEMEA’ – Continental Europe, Middle East and Africa, previously reported as EMEA – excluding UK & Ireland. 13 www.dtz.com     
Costs before exceptional items decreased 
by £47.7 million (12.0 per cent) to £349.4 
million (2009: £397.1 million). This is 
attributable to the Group’s restructuring 
programme, including the sale of the 
Group’s 50 per cent interest in DTZ 
Rockwood, redundancies and lower 
incentive compensation payments. 
During the period staff costs declined by 
£28.5 million or 10.6 per cent. The number 
of directly employed staff declined by 938 
people over the course of the financial 
year to 4,637 primarily as a result of 
our restructuring actions. 
Along with our peers in service industries 
across the world, the Group’s largest cost 
remains staff, which accounted for 67.7 per 
cent of revenue compared with 74.0 per 
cent in the previous year. This decrease is 
attributable to the restructuring actions we 
have taken. As the Group’s most significant 
cost, we monitor the correlation between 
staff costs and revenue very closely, a 
process made easier as a result of the 
reporting measures put in place by the 
Executive Committee. We are targeting 
a further improvement in this ratio as the 
2010/11 fiscal year unfolds and remain 
committed to driving this ratio towards 
60 per cent.
The most significant area of cost reduction 
was seen in operating costs, which declined 
by £18.5 million or 15.5 per cent. In addition 
depreciation and amortisation reduced by 
£0.8 million to £7.6 million. As a proportion 
of revenue, other costs were 30.5 per cent in 
the year compared with 35.1 per cent in the 
previous year. We have reached our 30 per 
cent target and are now looking to optimise 
further as we continue to focus on our 
cost base.
Foreign exchange movements had a 
significant impact on costs. On an underlying 
basis, for the entire year, our costs decreased 
to £337.5 million, a decrease of £59.6 million 
or 15.0 per cent.
Exceptional Items
During the year, certain exceptional items have 
been recognised and charged to the income 
statement. T o enable a clearer understanding 
of the Group’s underlying performance and 
to assist comparability between periods, 
the exceptional items have been reported 
separately in the income statement. The 
reasons for these exceptional items are: 
1  Restructuring and redundancy costs as 
a result of our restructuring programme 
of £14.9 million, of which £10.1 million 
relates to redundancy costs.
2  The sale of the New Zealand and the 
closure of our Russian operations which 
resulted in a loss of £4.4 million in the year.
3  Costs relating to the renegotiation of our 
financing arrangements with RBS of £6.9 
million. Of this, £3.9 million relates to costs 
directly associated with the refinancing 
that were capitalised in the prior year and 
£1.5 million relating to costs incurred in the 
current year relating to refinancing costs 
but now released to the profit and loss. 
The remaining £3.0 million is a non‑cash 
expense resulting from changes made to 
our interest rate swaps that was released 
from the hedging reserve as required by 
accounting standards.
Taxation
The Group’s tax charge has decreased to 
£0.5 million (2009: £7.2 million). This reflects 
the tax charged in jurisdictions where the 
Group generated profits, and the recognition 
of deferred tax assets of £4.1 million.
Earnings per Share and Dividends
Basic earnings per share before exceptionals 
has returned to a profit of 0.74 pence per 
share (2009: loss per share 40.29 pence). 
Basic earnings per share after exceptional 
items has also improved, but remains a loss 
per share of 9.60 pence (2009: loss 82.75 
pence) as a consequence of the size of 
exceptional items.
The Board continues to believe it is in the best 
interests of the Group to continue to maintain 
the strength of its balance sheet and therefore 
has decided not to recommend a final dividend 
for the year to 30 April 2010 (2009: nil). 
No interim dividend was paid during the year 
so the total dividend for the year is nil (2009: nil).
Acquisitions and Disposals
During the year, the Group undertook the 
following corporate activity:
•  On 18 May 2009, the Group disposed of 
its 50 per cent interest in DTZ Rockwood 
for a nominal amount;
•  On 2 October 2009, the Group’s 
operations in Russia closed and DTZ 
now operates in Russia under a franchise 
agreement with its franchise partner 
in Kazakhstan;
•  On 30 October 2009, the Group disposed 
of 100 per cent of its interest in DTZ 
New Zealand;
•  On 27 November 2009, the Group 
acquired the remaining 20 per cent 
minority interest in DTZ Sweden to 
bring its share holding to 100 per cent.
Pensions
At 30 April 2010, a deficit of £10.2 million 
was held on the balance sheet (2009: £6.0 
million). The deficit has increased primarily 
due to changes in the underlying actuarial 
assumptions, primarily the discount rate 
reducing to 5.5 per cent (2009: 6.7 per cent).
Cash Flow and Borrowings
In July 2009, DTZ secured an additional 
mezzanine facility of up to £15.0 million from 
its largest shareholder, SGP to support the 
acceleration of its restructuring plans. In 
addition, the introduction of this mezzanine 
facility permitted the Company to renegotiate 
its banking facilities. Consequently the Group is 
now in a stronger position compared to the prior 
year end. Further details are provided below and 
in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements.
Costs
2010 2009
Total costs pre 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
costs after 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Total costs pre 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
costs after 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Staff costs 240.9 10.1 251.1 269.4 12.1 281.4
Other costs 100.8 9.5 110.3 119.3 32.5 151.8
Depreciation 7.6 – 7.6 8.4 – 8.4
349.4 19.6 369.0 397.1 44.6 441.6 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
14
Financial Review continued
Key Financial Risks
Foreign currency risk                      
                      
                    
                     
         
Interest rate risk                       
                       
  
Credit risk                    
                     
                       
                     
           
Liquidity risk                  
                 
                  
                     
                   
                        
          
Key Operational Risks     
Changing market conditions     
       
       
      
      
      
       
        
      
      
      
    
             
  
           
           
Reputational and brand risk     
       
        
      
     
      
 
               
          
         
           
            
              
   
Recruitment and retention of staff      
     
    
              
     
                
              
    
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had cash 
and cash equivalents of £50.6 million. This 
compares to £48.7 million at 31 October 2009 
and £37.8 million at 30 April 2009. In addition, 
the Company had a revolving credit facility 
of £15.0 million and £5.0 million under the 
SGP facility at the year end. 
Throughout the year, the average cash 
and cash equivalents for the Group was 
£40.7 million, compared to £32.3 million 
in the prior year.
Net debt at 30 April 2010 was £47.5 million 
(2009: net debt £50.8 million), comprised 
as follows:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m 
Cash and cash 
equivalents
50.6 37.8
Loans (98.1) (88.6)
Net (debt)/cash (47.5) (50.8)
Undrawn facilities 20.0 15.0
At 30 April 2010, the Group’s net assets 
were £59.9 million (2009: £75.1 million). 
This change is largely as a result of the 
loss for the year.
Summary
2009/10 has been a year of significant 
progress for DTZ. We have restructured 
and refocused our business and our 
finances have been stabilised. Our client 
facing teams have remained focused on 
our clients and in so doing have delivered 
a robust performance in difficult conditions. 
We continue to face uncertain and 
challenging trading conditions but DTZ 
is now well positioned to deal with those 
challenges and focus on delivering profitable 
revenue growth. 
Bob Rickert
Group Finance Director and 
Global Chief Operating Officer
13 July 2010
Financial Risk Management
The Group has formal financial 
risk management policies in place 
designed to minimise financial risks 
for the Group. These policies and 
risks are reviewed annually and 
appropriate delegated authorities 
put in place. All material financing 
transactions are subject to approval 
by the Board. The treasury function 
is not a profit centre and the 
Group does not undertake 
speculative transactions.
The key financial risks impacting 
the Group are:
Operational Risk Management
The Group’s risk management 
process is integral to the 
operations of the business 
and risks are regularly assessed. 
This process is managed by 
the Group Risk Management 
Committee, which is chaired by 
the Global Chief Operating Officer. 
The Committee’s remit includes 
all appropriate aspects of risk 
including financial systems 
and controls.
It is of course not possible to 
mitigate completely the risks that 
the Group faces, especially in a 
rapidly changing economic climate, 
however the principal risks are:
Risks and Uncertainties 15 www.dtz.com 
  Commentary
  The Group publishes its results in sterling but has a number of overseas businesses operating in foreign currencies. The Group does not, 
at this stage of its development, consider it necessary to hedge the foreign exchange risks arising from the translation of overseas trading 
results into sterling. However, the Board does seek to hedge against the translation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities 
by arranging acquisition finance in the same currency. At 30 April 2010, the Group had bank loans denominated in foreign currencies 
of £22.9 million in order to hedge against specific investments.
  The Group’s current policy is that interest rate exposure to floating rates should not exceed 50 per cent. The Group has interest  
rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At the year end, approximately 59 per cent of our borrowings were  
at fixed rates.
 The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The Group credit risk 
is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. 
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event, which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows. The credit on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties 
are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
 The Group seeks to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet its long‑term strategic objectives. During the year management undertook 
an extremely thorough planning and budgeting process including the Group’s liquidity requirements. The Group maintains a working 
capital model. Sensitivities are modelled taking reasonable account of possible changes in trading performance to ensure the Group 
has adequate resources to meet its working capital requirements for the foreseeable future, being at least 12 months. The Group also 
prepares and monitors rolling forecasts of its liquidity position (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities (note 21) and cash and cash 
equivalents (note 22). This is carried out at local level in the operating companies of the Group as well as on a Group consolidated 
basis. These forecasts have been subject to stress testing by management.
  Nature of Risk Key Controls and Mitigation
  The international property market is 
cyclical and will be impacted by changes 
in economic activity, interest rates and the 
availability of finance. Additionally the Group 
remains sensitive to the underlying economic 
environment in the markets where it 
operates. In particular, the Eurozone and the 
UK have seen significant turmoil due to the 
effects of sovereign debt and governmental 
policies. A significant slowing of economic 
activity could impact real estate markets 
which would potentially impact results.
• The Group’s geographic spread and range of services helps mitigate, but cannot 
eliminate this risk.
• Management has undertaken a robust planning process and implemented stringent 
performance measures and accountabilities to mitigate this risk as much as possible.
   In a professional services business 
there is always a risk that professional 
opinions given in good faith can in some 
circumstances lead to claims against the 
business and generate associated adverse 
publicity. These risks may increase in 
deteriorating markets.
• With increasing recognition of DTZ as a global brand and with an excellent reputation, 
the Company understands the importance of maintaining high standards. Accordingly, 
management has established standardised procedures which seek to minimise 
the risk of claims against the business by ensuring robust process controls.
• The UK business successfully achieved certification with the latest ISO9001 standard 
in March 2010 for its business processes, one of the first real estate companies 
to do so.
    The Group’s employees are crucial to 
the success and future development 
of the Company. 
• It is essential that we reward and manage the development of employees securing 
their continued contribution to the business.
• The Group has put in place retention schemes for key staff and is constantly reviewing 
all aspects of its compensation and reward structures to ensure its ability to attract 
and retain high performing employees. 16 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Operating Review
Occupational & Development Markets
Revenue £118.5m
(2009: £110.6m)
Our Occupational & Development Markets 
business provides advice and transaction 
support to occupiers, landlords, and 
developers. During the year, as the Group 
undertook its own restructuring, the team 
advised clients who were also adjusting 
to more difficult market conditions. 
Through working closely with clients, tailoring 
solutions to meet their specific requirements, 
the business was able to grow revenues 
to £118.5 million (2009: £110.6 million).
UK & Ireland
Due to a combination of factors including 
pent‑up demand and very favourable leasing 
opportunities, the office sector in central 
London experienced an increase in take‑up 
which exceeded market expectations. 
As a result of that activity, DTZ retained a 
top two position by number of transactions.
Outside of London, the business turned its 
attention to occupiers, helping them take 
advantage of favourable market conditions 
– for instance larger corporate occupiers are 
now looking at sizeable Grade A properties 
as a way to consolidate workforces and 
achieve business efficiencies.
In the industrial and logistics sector, 
occupiers were consolidating their supply 
chains, while landlords were impacted 
by a severe reduction in requirements and 
pressure from existing tenants to re‑gear 
existing leases on more favourable terms. 
Notwithstanding this, DTZ advised on 
approximately 375 transactions comprising 
over eight million sq ft of space.
In the retail sector, uncertainty over already 
constrained consumer spending patterns 
translated into a variety of pressures. 
However, at the same time there were 
some positive signs in the market, including 
a stabilisation of insolvencies and the 
resumption of bank lending.
In response to these events, the retail business 
performed well, working proactively with 
clients and sensing where the market was 
heading. For example, the team focused 
attention on landlords as they sought to retain 
existing tenants offering attractive, but prudent 
packages to protect occupancy levels. 
CEMEA
Our business in CEMEA advised on 
instructions totalling 30.5 million sq ft of 
office space and retained top three positions 
in several key markets, including Amsterdam, 
Berlin, Paris, and Warsaw during the year.
Our teams were proactive in meeting 
the needs of occupiers as they sought 
to consolidate, renegotiate leases or 
secure better quality space.
Asia Pacific
In the one region that remained economically 
robust last year, the Occupational 
& Development Markets business 
delivered a very strong performance. 
As DTZ continues building its Chinese 
operation, this business is expected to 
play a major role in that expansion as the 
development of China’s second and third 
tier urban centres will lead to an increase 
in demand for advisory services.
Outside of China, the team also had a busy 
year. In Australia, it advised on three of the 
largest transactions in the country, while in 
India DTZ acted in a tenant representative 
capacity to a number of major global clients. 
Finally, in South East Asia, the team secured 
several major new mandates in Singapore 
and Thailand.
The Americas
For the majority of the past 12 months in 
Canada tenants were ‘right‑sizing’ their office 
accommodation and taking advantage of 
softer rental conditions to upgrade to better 
quality space. 
While bank financing was restricted during 
the height of the crisis, Canadian lending 
institutions are now in a much better position 
to provide liquidity for developers and 
investors going forward.
Global Corporate Services
As the team which serves as the gateway 
into DTZ for large multi‑national corporations, 
our Global Corporate Services (GCS) 
business provides clients with one point 
of contact for all their occupational needs. 
This year saw the GCS team increasingly 
focus on providing multi‑disciplinary real 
estate solutions, playing to the firm’s 
strength as a global all round service provider. 
Consequently, in fulfilling the requirements of 
its global mandates, the team worked closely 
with clients and DTZ specialists from across 
the business including project management, 
consulting, agency and property management.
Summary
By being quick to adapt to the changing 
market conditions and by taking the 
necessary steps to remain close to its clients, 
the Occupational & Development Markets 
business is ideally situated to build on its 
strong performance when markets return 
to greater levels of activity.
In May 2009, DTZ advised Brooks Brothers 
on its expansion into Canada, opening its 
first Canadian store in Vancouver, followed 
by its second in Toronto in September 
2009. The early success of these stores 
has led to further expansion plans for the 
leading fashion brand across Canada.
Canada 17 www.dtz.com     
Professional Services
Revenue £93.7m
(2009: £94.4m)
The environment in the global real estate 
markets played to the strengths of our 
Professional Services business which 
delivered a solid performance during the 
year, delivering revenues of £93.7 million 
(2009: £94.4 million). 
The Professional Services business, 
which comprises our property and 
facilities management teams alongside 
our building consultancy and project 
management departments, advises 
two different client groups; investors 
and corporate occupiers.
Investors, faced with pressure from 
lenders, prioritised the need to maintain 
cash flow, retain occupiers, and minimise 
non‑recoverable costs during the 
year. In addition, investors’ lenders are 
now insisting on documentation and 
management reports that demonstrate 
both transparency and efficiency. 
Corporate occupiers have in the past 
two years seen ample opportunity to 
improve their positioning with owners 
in terms of rents and lease terms. That 
opportunity has translated into a strong 
flow of business for DTZ.
For both sets of clients, our ‘Maximo’ operations 
system, which electronically manages all 
aspects of our facilities management offering 
and has just completed its first full year of 
operation, meets the client demand for an 
efficient use of a wide variety of data such 
as health and safety, sustainability, third party 
contracts and performance indicators. 
UK & Ireland
With the economic environment now 
stabilised relative to two years ago, 
the business is taking advantage of the 
opportunities summarised above as well 
as the continuing client drive to outsource. 
In order to improve value, it was only natural that 
corporate clients would turn to the outsourcing 
of their real estate management needs. DTZ 
has stepped into the frame in a way that should 
generate a sustainable source of income in 
the future with a strong focus on margins.
Our Sustainability business serves clients 
in several ways: fulfilling their legal and 
regulatory requirements, helping them 
to achieve or improve the green nature of 
their holdings, as well as ensuring that their 
portfolio holdings are positioned correctly for 
the day when a value will be placed against 
the carbon costs of those holdings.
The heightened awareness of environmental 
issues within the global real estate market 
has enabled the Sustainability business 
at DTZ to grow its revenues significantly.
CEMEA
In CEMEA our team had a very busy year; 
particularly supporting retail clients. DTZ was 
involved in the opening of 20 new shopping 
centres predominantly located in Germany, 
Poland, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia. 
While the overall economic climate in Europe 
remains uncertain, the retail pipeline remains 
relatively robust.
Asia Pacific
In China, our Professional Services business 
continues to perform well and is the largest 
non‑domestic real estate management 
firm operating in China. The business is 
now embarking on a two‑pronged strategy 
to expand its offering and further develop 
its market position.
First, it has targeted second‑ and third‑tier 
population centres which were previously 
served primarily by domestic Chinese real 
estate companies. With these centres 
experiencing rapid growth and the 
accompanying demand for good quality 
office, retail, and industrial space, the team 
has moved quickly to meet that demand. 
This past year alone, property management 
teams were involved in assignments 
for 960 million sq ft of space in over 60 
Chinese cities. It is expected that further 
services will be provided as these smaller 
population centres continue maturing.
Secondly, the expertise that DTZ has 
developed in the UK & Ireland and CEMEA 
as a leading real estate adviser to the retail 
industry is supporting this momentum in 
China. The key driver behind our focus here 
is the strong demand for consumer goods 
in China, which is evidenced by the fact that 
in major urban centres, such as Shanghai, 
prime retail land is almost entirely occupied 
and the annualised growth rate of sales 
in consumer goods is approximately 
13 per cent. 
Summary
Professional Services has demonstrated its 
ability to evolve to support changing client 
needs. As markets improve and equilibrium 
returns in the relationship between landlords 
and tenants, the business is poised to 
capture market opportunities. 
DTZ was awarded a contract by 
international developer and investor 
Ballymore Group to undertake retail, office 
and residential property management 
services for the new landmark 2.5 million 
sq ft Eurovea scheme in Bratislava, 
the largest mixed‑use commercial 
development in Central Europe.
Slovakia 18 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Operating Review continued
Valuation
Revenue £60.8m
(2009: £74.1m)
The performance of the Valuation business, 
closely linked to global transaction levels, 
typically lags behind the rest of the real estate 
market by six to 12 months. That time lag, 
coupled with continuing uncertainty in the 
sector, negatively impacted its performance 
last year with revenues standing at 
£60.7 million (2009: £74.1 million).
With greatly reduced business flows from 
its traditional client base of portfolio and 
strategic investors, the business responded 
by pursuing new opportunities in those parts 
of the market that were still active, namely 
distressed debt investors, bank work‑out 
groups, and court‑appointed receivers. Its 
overall revenues also benefited from a solid 
performance by the business in Asia Pacific.
UK & Ireland
After two years of steady, downward 
pressure, the Valuations business started 
to see a recovery in property values in the 
middle of last year that translated into an 
increase in activity at the prime end of the 
market, although this was concentrated 
mainly in central London. As supply 
outpaced demand, particularly in central 
London, the first capital flows back into the 
market came from institutional investors 
and opportunity funds. 
While the initial interest was in prime property 
stock, that interest broadened to other areas 
of the market with the return of investors 
looking for enhanced yields.
At the same time while overall lending 
volumes remained significantly depressed 
from pre‑crisis levels, there are signs of some 
initial lending activity which will have a direct 
positive impact on the business.
It is also expected that there will be a marked 
pick‑up in activity working with lenders and 
investors to retrieve capital through the 
direct sale of properties, transfer of debt, 
introduction of joint venture partners or 
through some form of insolvency process 
including the appointment of LPA receivers. 
The level of those appointments has been 
subdued up until now because of the limited 
opportunity for lenders to exit properties 
at acceptable levels.
Outside receivership appointments, activity 
has improved in the amount of valuation 
work being undertaken on behalf of banks 
and loan service providers seeking advice 
regarding distressed real estate portfolios. 
This business is being undertaken as part 
of a broader pan‑DTZ effort that includes 
our investment agency, building consultancy, 
and property management teams.
CEMEA
The CEMEA market remained a challenging 
one for the Valuations business last year 
as regional economic uncertainty greatly 
reduced transaction flows.
Adding to the challenges presented by the 
market are the methodological approaches 
toward valuing properties that exist within 
different national real estate markets. In 
order to address those differences and 
improve operating margins, Valuations 
began migrating during the year towards 
a regional service line approach in the 
way it manages its business and advises 
international clients. The global funds and 
institutions we advise continue to focus on 
centralising management and risk functions, 
cross‑border assignments, and require 
coordination across multiple countries, but 
with a single reporting line back to the client. 
This is becoming a larger part of our offering 
and our own internal structure means we are 
well positioned to advise and service clients 
requiring this type of delivery.
Asia Pacific
Along with its strong core business of 
providing valuations for mortgages and 
financing, the year saw heightened activity 
around the equity capital markets. In particular, 
DTZ was an active valuer of companies 
preparing for flotation on the Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange, completing 13 assignments.
There is also an expectation that Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs) will be launched in 
mainland China soon, which we anticipate will 
create substantial opportunities for the business.
Summary
By being proactive and innovative, Valuations 
compensated for the lower transaction 
volumes by reaching out to opportunistic 
investors in the real estate market. With that 
stream of business expected to remain, and 
if markets continue to recover, Valuations will 
be well positioned for the upcoming years.
During the year, DTZ valued 104 items 
of properties comprising 27.1 million sq ft 
of gross floor area attributable to Swire 
of residential, commercial, hotel and 
serviced apartments in Hong Kong, as well 
as various development sites and other 
properties in the US and mainland China, 
totalling HK$183.8 billion (£14.8 billion).
Hong Kong 19 www.dtz.com 
Investment Agency
Revenue £46.6m
(2009: £38.9m)
Our Investment Agency business 
advises on the acquisition and disposal 
of commercial real estate. While the 
investment markets continued to show 
varying degrees of recovery during the 
year, there was undoubtedly a pick‑up in 
the UK, driven by activity in central London 
and across Asia Pacific, driving revenues 
to £46.6 million (2009: £38.9 million) – 
a commendable performance.
There were two overarching trends within 
the Investment Agency business over 
the past 12 months. First, there was a 
marked increase in cross‑border flows, 
predominantly for traditional core markets. 
After two years of moribund markets, 
investors were much more willing to look 
outside their own regions to add to their 
real estate portfolios. Secondly, the flow 
of investment into property markets only 
reached significant levels after institutional 
investors, who had been on the sidelines, 
recognised the diversification and yield 
enhancement that was now on offer 
within the real estate asset class.
UK & Ireland
After an extended period of uncertainty, 
the London market improved throughout the 
year, based on a combination of built‑up local 
demand and overseas capital looking for 
safe, but potentially productive, opportunities. 
The first client group to conclude that the 
market had over‑corrected were opportunistic 
local buyers, followed by UK institutional 
investors and overseas buyers. Investment 
Agency, with its close ties to local markets 
and its ability to leverage DTZ offices 
in CEMEA and Asia Pacific, was ideally 
positioned to capitalise on these flows. 
Looking ahead, there are tentative signs 
of increased activity in the rest of the 
UK & Ireland. Strategic transactions that 
had been suspended during the market 
turmoil are now starting to be revived and 
overseas financial investors are looking 
beyond London to take advantage of 
buying opportunities. 
CEMEA
Although there have been some slight 
signs of improvement, the overall trading 
environment in CEMEA remains challenging, 
and has been recently exacerbated by new 
uncertainties surrounding the Eurozone.
The only strong exception within CEMEA 
is Paris, where there has been an increase 
in occupier and investment activity – 
international investors have turned their 
attention to Paris as an alternative to 
London, but like London are suffering 
from a lack of investment opportunities.
Looking ahead a potential bright spot for the 
region is the interest being shown by Asian 
investors who see Europe at the bottom of a 
market cycle and an opportunity to diversify 
their portfolios and enhance their yield 
through select buying opportunities.
Asia Pacific
The robust economic growth in this region 
allowed DTZ to continue to cement its 
presence throughout the major markets 
it serves, including China, and retain its 
top three position across the entire region.
Although the year started slowly, the second 
quarter saw a return of activity, which 
continued throughout the remainder of the 
year. As a result DTZ brokered or advised on 
some of the largest sales in Shanghai, Tokyo, 
Taipei, Singapore, and Sydney, while in China 
it maintained its dominant position advising 
on more than 50 per cent of all significant 
investment agency deals. 
The Americas
In Canada, the troughs that other geographies 
experienced were not quite as pronounced. 
At the same time, the recovery of the markets 
in Canada should be quicker given the relative 
health of its fundamental economics and 
the strength of its banking system.
The past 12 months ended on an optimistic 
note as Canadian REIT s returned to the market 
with new money and an appetite for properties 
with good cash flows and sustainable yields.
Summary
While we remain cautious, if the market 
recovery around the world continues, the 
corresponding increase in transactional 
activity should bode well for Investment 
Agency. Its ability to outperform the market 
and thereby capture more revenues will be 
dependent on its ability to tap into the cross 
border capabilities of the global DTZ network.
DTZ advised Shin Kong Life Insurance on 
the purchase of the three Asia Plaza office 
buildings in the Neihu Technology Park, 
Taipei, from Citi Property Investors for 
NT$11.35 billion (£218.8 million).
Taipei DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
20
Operating Review continued
Investment & Asset Management
Revenue £13.8m
(2009: £18.1m)
Predominantly comprising DTZ’s Investment 
Management and Asset Management 
businesses, which provide discretionary 
and non‑discretionary property investment 
acquisition and management services, the 
teams have remained active throughout 
the year winning some major new clients 
as we began to see the return of pension 
funds and other institutional investors 
to the real estate space.
During the 2009/10 financial year, DTZ 
Corporate Finance was also reported as part 
of this service line. The reduction in revenues 
from the Investment & Asset Management 
business is attributed to a restructuring 
of the Corporate Finance business to better 
focus on profitable revenue generation and 
the exit from DTZ Rockwood. As a result, 
revenue for the year fell to £13.8 million 
(2009: £18.1 million). Since the year end 
the corporate finance team has moved 
out of the Investment & Asset Management 
business and going forward will be reported 
as part of our Investment Agency division.
DTZ Investment Management
DTZ Investment Management is a London 
based investment management team 
focusing on both direct property portfolios 
and portfolios of funds.
From a low in early 2009, investor sentiment 
changed abruptly in the UK at about the 
financial half‑year. Institutional and retail 
capital returned quickly to the market as 
investors saw relative value in property 
investing. This weight of capital coupled 
with the general recovery in risk asset 
valuations has driven a 15 per cent recovery 
in capital values since July 2009 and DTZ 
Investment Management has enjoyed great 
success in expanding existing long‑term 
client mandates and helping new clients 
gain exposure to the market. To this effect 
during the year the team won four new 
mandates collectively totalling £510.0 million, 
comprising a mix of existing assets and new 
money to be invested.
The business continued its long track 
record of market outperformance on its fully 
discretionary managed portfolios, averaging 
200 bps per annum or more than the market 
on a one, three, five, and 10 year basis. 
This continued solid performance saw DTZ 
Investment Management receive the IPD/IPF 
Investment Award for the best risk‑adjusted 
10‑year return of any UK managed fund for 
a fourth year running. This is the eleventh 
performance award our Investment 
Management business has won in 
the ten years since the IPD has 
been publishing these results. 
The team now manages £1.5 billion of 
property assets in the UK, plus a further 
£0.5 billion of new allocations from existing 
and new clients (2009: £1.4 billion of assets 
under management). 
Our Investment Management business 
continues to be a priority growth area for the 
Group, and investment in high quality talent 
has continued to meet this expansion. The 
development of our Asia Pacific investment 
management platform is a key component 
of our growth strategy. David Schaefer 
joined the business during the year 
to lead the establishment of DTZ 
Investment Management in Asia and to 
broaden the institutional client base of DTZ 
Investment management.
DTZ Asset Management
DTZ Asset Management is a Paris based 
business providing acquisition, financing, 
asset enhancement and disposal services 
to a broad range of institutional investors 
from around the globe. The team advises 
on a diverse range of property portfolios 
in France, Germany, Belgium and Italy.
During the financial year, DTZ Asset 
Management enjoyed a period of continued 
growth and won new mandates totalling 
€450 million. The gross assets under 
management was €3.6 billion as at April 2010 
(2009: €3.5 billion). While the cyclical decline 
in property valuations adversely impacted 
the transaction volumes in this financial year, 
the track record and reputation of DTZ Asset 
Management places our business well to 
deliver top line and bottom line growth. 
The growth of the asset management 
business in existing and new geographies, 
as well as the broader application of our 
asset enhancement skills to deliver property 
portfolio restructuring solutions or assist 
banks in managing assets repossessed 
from distressed debtors, is a key strategic 
priority for DTZ.
During the financial year, DTZ Asset 
Management won the award for Best 
European Property Manager from 
European Pensions.
DTZ Corporate Finance
During the year the Corporate Finance 
business continued to be restructured 
with the objective of improved financial 
performance. While this resulted in lower 
revenue realisation, the restructuring has led 
to improved risk profile around this business 
and rationalised the cost base. 
DTZ Investment Management secured the 
IPD/IPF Award for the best risk‑adjusted 
performance of any UK property fund over 
a 10‑year period for the Imperial T obacco 
Pension Fund. IPD independently ranked the 
fund’s performance as first out of a total of 
174 funds covering over £100 billion of UK 
property. This marks the eleventh award for 
DTZ Investment Management in the ten years 
that IPD has been measuring performance. 
United Kingdom 21 www.dtz.com     
Consulting & Research
Revenue £22.6m
(2009: £28.0m)
During the year, DTZ’s Consulting & 
Research business felt the impact of the 
overall slowdown in markets and generated 
revenues of £22.6 million (2009: £27.9 million) 
for the year to 30 April 2010.
Challenging market conditions and declining 
market demand for our UK development 
consulting services, exacerbated by 
pre‑election uncertainty in the UK, 
contributed to the reduction in revenues.
However, while overall revenues were 
down, performance improved in our UK 
corporate/occupier consulting business and 
in certain of our Asia Pacific and CEMEA 
markets, reflecting the more robust market 
environment and the recognised strength 
of our consulting services.
Alongside servicing its own client base, the 
Consulting business also acts as the well 
spring for the intellectual and analytical 
capabilities of the firm. The business 
plays a crucial role in supporting and 
deepening existing client relationships as 
well as consistently generating cross‑selling 
opportunities to other service lines within 
the Group. 
Consulting
With nearly 300 consultants worldwide, 
DTZ is one of the largest global property 
consultancies, and this depth of expertise 
is a key differentiator for the Group. 
Our service offering features two key elements; 
development consulting and corporate/
occupier consulting. We advise clients 
from across the private and public sectors, 
providing a comprehensive consulting service, 
from strategy definition and the development 
of business and funding plans to programme 
management and delivery.
Despite the development market slowdown, 
our development consultancy team has 
been proactive in guiding clients through the 
uncertainty in both economic recovery and 
real estate markets. Our advice spans the full 
development cycle from master plan through 
to end delivery, and the team is appointed on 
some high profile instructions. For example, 
DTZ has developed a unique expertise in the 
commercial development around rail hubs 
with engagements last year in Europe and 
Asia Pacific. To date, the team has advised 
on the redevelopment of more than 250 
metro and rail stations around the world. 
The Middle East continues to provide our 
development teams with exciting instructions 
working on various projects across the 
region as countries there seek to bolster their 
infrastructure and diversify their economies. 
While in Asia Pacific, where markets continue 
on a growth trajectory, our Consulting 
business has been active in advising on 
issues such as the development of Central 
Business Districts (CBDs) and new cities.
Finally our expertise in brownfield sites 
continues to win us new work. During the year 
we advised numerous clients on how best to 
exit from, or identify more productive use of, 
surplus land and buildings located around 
these sites. DTZ has developed an enviable 
track record of originating and executing 
such brownfield divestment strategies and 
in Europe alone has advised on 50,000 acres 
of brownfield development over the last 
five years. 
The second specialist area within our 
Consulting business is our corporate/occupier 
consultancy which advises clients on the 
alignment of their corporate portfolios to their 
business objectives. In a continuing trend, 
our team was active during the year advising 
occupiers seeking to rationalise their cost 
base and transform their businesses. 
Indeed, in 2009 DTZ provided strategic 
advice to occupiers on over 32.1 million 
sq ft of real estate. 
Research
Through its well respected publications 
and market commentators, DTZ’s Research 
forms a major component of DTZ’s public 
voice. Its other major value to the Group lies 
in the insight it provides to clients across the 
firm. The team tracks the performance of 
markets, provides forecasts of key indicators 
and delivers industry‑leading insights on 
the implication of future trends.
During the year, DTZ’s researchers around 
the globe published quarterly coverage 
on property markets in 30 countries and 
over 60 cities. This was supplemented 
by DTZ Research’s annual report series 
which includes Money into Property, our 
flagship publication for investors, and Global 
Occupancy Costs: Offices and Obligations 
of Occupation, our flagship publication 
for occupiers.
DTZ Research operates as one global team 
with a local presence across DTZ’s markets, 
complemented by a global forecasting and 
strategy team. Acting as an independent 
research house it provides its own views 
and conclusions on real estate markets 
around the world.
DTZ was appointed by leading Egyptian 
real estate developer, Palm Hills 
Developments, to undertake a market 
and feasibility study for a proposed scheme 
in Cairo’s Sixth October District. DTZ set 
out the development recommendations 
and overall development feasibility.
Egypt DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
22
Corporate Responsibility
DTZ is fully committed to conducting 
its business in a socially responsible 
manner, balancing our commercial 
interest with professional integrity 
and the needs of our stakeholders 
– employees, clients, suppliers, 
shareholders and the communities 
in which we operate. 
The UK is our largest market and so our view is 
that the UK should set the standard for corporate 
responsibility (‘CR’) across our international 
operations. During the 2009/10 financial year 
we increased our involvement in a number of 
Business in the Community (‘BitC’) programmes 
and benchmarked DTZ’s performance in CR 
for the second year in succession through 
participation in BitC’s CR index.
The CR Index is a voluntary, business‑led 
benchmark of responsible business practice, 
developed as a management tool to support 
companies who have a genuine interest in 
improving their social and environmental 
performance. DTZ’s responses were 
independently audited and our aim is to 
next year further improve our performance 
in BitC’s CR index. 
Outside of the UK, each country operation 
is responsible for setting its own CR 
agenda, acting in accordance with its local 
environment. Some examples of the activities 
our teams globally are involved in include:  
In Shanghai, members of DTZ’s UK Pavilion 
Expo team organised a team from the World 
Expo 2010’s UK Pavilion, including the 
Consul General, to take part in a sports event 
in support of a local charity dedicated to the 
care of Chinese children with cerebral palsy.
Also in Asia Pacific, DTZ staff donated funds 
to support the victims of the typhoon that 
engulfed Taiwan in August 2009, while in 
Australia staff supported the work of a local 
industry charity that works to safeguard 
the welfare of vulnerable children. Finally in 
Poland, DTZ lent its support to a recycling 
project which engaged local schools in 
a contest to reduce the amount of waste 
sent to landfill sites.
In the UK our CR is concentrated in the 
four areas of marketplace, workplace, 
environment and the community.
2009/10 Targets
Status
2010/11 Targets
Marketplace
To develop delivery mechanisms for a ‘Green  
Lease Toolkit’
• We aim to improve CAESER by 2 per cent in 2010/11
• To further grow our sustainability services in the UK
To create a standard client offer, which can be 
delivered on any property – ‘Sustainably managed 
by DTZ’
Workplace
To consolidate the variety of different reward 
programmes and link employees’ reward more  
closely to business performance 
Excellent progress • To embed the use of ‘Topgrading’ for all senior roles 
to enhance assessment of a candidate’s suitability 
including promotion process
• To conduct an employee opinion survey in the UK 
to assist the development of workplace goals
• To enhance DTZ’s learning and development 
programme in support of performance management
• To promote DTZ’s Global Diversity Policy more 
extensively in the UK
To ensure every employee has an interim and a  
final year performance review and that performance  
is appropriately differentiated
To mobilise the best people available using 
a world‑class consistent selection process
Excellent progress 
Environment
To further reduce energy consumption per square  
metre of UK occupied office space by 2.5 per cent
6.8 per cent • Reduce Energy Consumption in the UK by 2 per cent 
(against 2009/10 performance)
• Increase waste recycling by 10 per cent in the UK 
(against 2009/10 performance)
• Reduce carbon emissions from travel by 2 per cent  
in the UK (relative to turnover)
• Establish Green Memoranda of Understanding 
at DTZ’s main offices in the UK
• Collect gas consumption data for all DTZ offices 
in the UK, where gas is used as a fuel source
• Collect water consumption data for all properties  
in the UK
In the UK to increase waste recycling by 5 per cent 13 per cent
To reduce travel related carbon footprint by 5 per cent  
per person in the UK
6 per cent
Community
To continue our fundraising effort towards 
the £200,000 target for Shelter 
£100,000 • To continue with our £200,000 fundraising target  
for Shelter
• To increase the level of staff volunteering in the UK  
to 10 per cent
To ensure our volunteering policy is fully  
implemented across the UK
  23 www.dtz.com     
Our Marketplace 
Our view is that the real estate sector will 
be increasingly influenced by sustainability 
considerations so our aim is to ensure 
the advice we provide to occupiers 
and investors incorporates sustainability 
measures. Our seminars on sustainability 
have been well‑received and we have 
also provided advice on the CRC Energy 
Efficiency Scheme (previously known 
as the Carbon Reduction Commitment) 
which has legal effect from 2011. 
In 2009, DTZ was instrumental in the 
development of a new sustainability rating 
tool. Known as ‘Ska rating’, the methodology 
has been developed to evaluate the 
sustainability performance of office fit‑outs. 
The Royal Institution of Charters Surveyors 
(RICS) is now the custodian of ‘Ska rating’, 
which won the 2009 CoreNet Global 
Industry Excellence Award. 
During the year, DTZ made a significant 
contribution to BitC’s work to encourage 
retail‑led economic regeneration through 
joint research, practical support and our 
own projects.
In 2010 DTZ achieved a 78 per cent score in 
the Corporate Assessment of Environmental, 
Social and Economic Responsibility (CAESER) 
and we are committed to maintaining and 
improving our score for 2011.
Our Workplace 
Throughout the 2009/10 financial year 
DTZ worked hard to keep staff informed of 
business developments and the achievement 
of key milestones.
The People Communication Forum (PCF), 
now in its second year in the UK, became a 
real asset for the firm and was responsible 
for the successful communication and 
consultation of a wide range of business 
and people related topics. The PCF has 
been an important channel to inform and 
consult staff and the feedback received 
has helped shape our approach.
During the year, DTZ put in place succession 
for its most senior roles. In addition, to 
ensure robust performance management, 
DTZ implemented an international roll‑out 
of its Global Performance Management 
process which proved valuable. We continue 
to monitor the system to maintain standards 
and make improvements where necessary. 
In 2009 DTZ introduced the ‘Topgrading’ 
selection and recruitment process and 
this has improved the Company’s ability 
to assess a candidate’s suitability for 
senior roles.
Accreditation of OHSAS18001 the health and 
safety standard, creates a hat trick for DTZ 
which also has registration for ISO 90001 
and ISO 14001. We believe DTZ is one of 
the first professional surveying firms to 
achieve all three standards in the UK.
Our Environment 
At DTZ we are committed to minimising our 
impact on the environment and to working in 
partnership with clients and suppliers to develop 
best practice environmental management.
The Company’s environmental management 
performance is accredited with ISO 14001 
certification in Sweden and in the UK. 
To help achieve its targets, DTZ promoted 
energy efficient practices to staff to coincide 
with the launch of the Princes Mayday 
Network. The network is a collaboration 
of businesses at all stages of reducing 
consumption of natural resources and 
carbon emissions.
Our Community
DTZ’s contribution to its local communities 
developed substantially in the 2009/10 
financial year and the Company received 
recognition from its key community partners 
for its unwavering commitment to society.
Shelter, the housing and homeless charity, 
is DTZ’s corporate charity partner in the UK. 
As a leading property adviser DTZ is able 
to generate interest and support amongst 
the property industry for the charity. 
Over the past 12 months DTZ staff 
participated in numerous fundraising 
projects and raised £100,000 for Shelter; 
a significant milestone towards our £200,000 
target. Noteworthy fundraising events included 
a Christmas market, a nationwide luxury 
prize draw, participation in ‘Vertical Rush’, 
a dash up the City of London’s Tower 
42 and an art auction at DTZ’s 
global headquarters.
The firm’s UK volunteering policy was 
relaunched during the autumn of 2009. 
Staff volunteering projects included; 
refurbishing community gardens, 
organising festive dinners for the 
residents of a high support hostel 
specialising in the rehabilitation of 
recovering alcoholic men, and, the 
redecoration of a house for a homeless 
family in Scotland.
Guests viewing a painting donated by Ineum Consulting, exhibited as part of a charity art auction hosted by DTZ 
at its London headquarters in aid of Shelter – its corporate charity partner in the UK. 24 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Board of Directors
1
4
7
2
5
8
3
6
9 25 www.dtz.com     
1. Tim Melville‑Ross (65)
Group Chairman
Board appointment: 
Non‑Executive Director: 17 January 2000
Chairman: 6 September 2000
Committee membership:
Remuneration and Nomination 
(Chair) Committees
Tim was formerly Director General of 
The Institute of Directors and, before that, 
Chief Executive of Nationwide Building 
Society. He is Chairman of the Higher 
Education Funding Council for England, 
Manganese Bronze Holdings plc and 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited. 
2. Paul Idzik (49)
Group Chief Executive
Board appointment:
3 November 2008 
Before joining DTZ, Paul was Group 
Chief Operating Officer of Barclays Plc 
from 2004 to 2008, and previously held 
the Chief Operating Officer role for 
Barclays Capital Limited, the Investment 
Banking division of Barclays Plc. Prior 
to the positions at Barclays, Paul was 
a partner at management consultancy 
Booz, Allen & Hamilton, now Booz & Co. 
Paul was formerly a Non Executive Director 
of LCH.Clearnet. 
3. Bob Rickert (49)
Group Finance Director and  
Global Chief Operating Officer
Board appointment:
27 May 2009 
Bob joined DTZ in March 2009 as Global Chief 
Operating Officer and was subsequently 
appointed as Group Finance Director. 
He moved to the Group from Barclays Plc, 
where he had been the Chief Information Officer 
of Global Retail and Commercial Banking from 
January 2006 to February 2009. Before joining 
Barclays, he was the Chief Executive Officer 
of NT Medical Systems Inc, a North American 
medical technology systems company, and 
prior to this role had worked at IBM for 
14 years and KeyCorp for five years. 
4.  Leung Chun Ying (CY Leung) (55)
Chairman, Asia Pacific
Board appointment: 
14 December 2006 
CY has been involved with the Group since 1993. 
In 1999 the Group bought a minority interest 
in his business and affirmed the relationship 
in 2006 acquiring the remaining 70% of the 
equity. He has been Chairman of DTZ’s Asia 
Pacific business since February 2007. CY 
is a past Chairman of the Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors in Hong Kong and a 
past President of the Institute of Surveyors 
in Hong Kong. He is also a Trustee, Executive 
Committee Member and Chairman of Asia 
for the Urban Land Institute of the United 
States and a Non Executive Director of Shui On 
Land Limited and Sing Tao News Corporation 
Limited. Since 1997, CY has been a member 
of the Executive Council of Hong Kong and 
is currently the Convenor. Since 2003 he has 
been a member of the National Standing 
Committee of the Chinese People’s 
Political Consultative Conference. 
5. Lorraine Baldry (61)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board appointment:
01 April 2010
Committee membership:
Remuneration, Nomination and  
Audit Committees 
Lorraine has over 35 years experience in a wide 
range of industries including Real Estate, 
Financial Services and IT. Lorraine is a 
current Board member of the Olympic 
Delivery Authority and Chairman of its 
Planning Committee. Lorraine was Chief 
Executive of Chesterton plc and prior to that 
held various senior positions at Prudential, 
Morgan Stanley and Regus. She is also former 
Chairman of both London Thames Gateway 
Development Corporation and Central London 
Partnership and was also a Non‑Executive 
Director of St Ives Plc. Lorraine is an Honorary 
Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors and a past President of the British 
Property Federation.
6. Pascal Derrey (59)
Non-Executive Director
Board appointment:
20 January 2009 
Committee membership:
Audit Committee (Chair)
Pascal has been responsible for the corporate 
development of SAS Saint George since 2005. 
From 1974 to 1994, he worked for Unilever, 
primarily in the Finance Department, becoming 
Vice President of Finance of Unilever de 
Venezuela in 1988, a position he held until 
1993. In 1994, he was appointed Managing 
Director of Alain Affelou SA. 
7. Alicja Lesniak (58)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board appointment:
8 March 2004 
Committee membership:
Remuneration (Chair), Nomination 
and Audit Committees
Alicja has over 30 years experience of 
financial and operational management in the 
management consultancy, engineering and, 
most recently, marketing services sectors. 
She retired during the year as CFO of Aegis 
Group plc. Previously she served as a Board 
member for BBDO Worldwide Inc. and prior 
to that she was Chief Financial Officer 
worldwide of Ogilvy & Mather and Managing 
Director of J Walter Thompson UK. Since 
2006 she has been a Non Executive Director 
of the specialist staffing business SThree. 
Alicja is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. 
8. Frank Piédelièvre (54)
Non-Executive Director
Board appointment:
20 January 2009 
Committee membership:
Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
Frank has headed the strategic committee 
of SAS Saint George since 2005 and was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer of SAS 
Saint George in 2008. He also holds the 
position of Chief Executive Officer of SAS 
Saint George Participations and is the 
Chairman of SAS Groupe CM Exedra. 
He served as Managing Director of Chantiers 
Modernes from 1982 until 1992 when he 
was appointed the Managing Director of SAS 
Groupe CM Exedra. He served as Managing 
Director of SAS Groupe CM Exedra until 
1994, after which he was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of Bureau Veritas in 1996. 
9. François Tardan (57)
Non-Executive Director
Board appointment:
20 January 2009 
François has been Chief Financial Officer 
of Bureau Veritas since 1998. He started his 
career at the Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Development in Paris in 1980 where he worked 
until 1984. He then worked as an investment 
banker in New York until he was appointed 
as Vice President of corporate development 
of Chantiers Modernes in 1989. He held this 
position until 1994. He was appointed President 
and Chief Executive Officer of Fondasol in 1995 
where he remained until 1998.  Statement of Corporate Governance 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
26 
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
Throughout the year ended 30 April 2010 the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the June 2008 FRC 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the ‘Combined Code’) except, as specified below, as regards the nomination of a Senior Independent 
Director and the composition of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate 
governance reflected in the Combined Code and in accordance with the Combined Code; a narrative statement of how the Company has applied 
the provisions of the Combined Code is set out below. 
The Board of Directors 
The Board comprises Mr T D Melville-Ross, Group Chairman, Mr P T Idzik, Group Chief Executive, two other Executive Directors and five 
Non-Executive Directors. There is a separation of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive. The Board has 
considered carefully the need to appoint a Senior Independent Director and concluded that Ms L I Baldry should be nominated as Senior Independent 
Director once she has had the opportunity to acquaint herself fully with the Company. 
The Directors submit themselves for election at the first AGM after their appointment and for re-election at least every three years thereafter. 
Details of the Directors submitting themselves for re-appointment at the AGM on 17 September 2010 are shown on page 39. 
As Chairman, Mr T D Melville-Ross is not considered independent, and, owing to the fact that they have been nominated by SAS Saint George 
Participations, Mr F Piédelièvre, Mr P G M Derrey and Mr F Tardan are not considered independent, but the other Non-Executive Directors are 
considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with 
the exercise of their independent judgement. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for periods of up to three years renewable for further periods 
in appropriate cases. Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors appear on pages 24 to 25 demonstrate the calibre and breadth of experience 
they provide to the Company, which complements the industry experience of the Executive Directors. Through the Company Secretary, 
all Directors can, if they so wish, take independent advice at the expense of the Company. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision that includes: 
• Approval of annual budgets and strategic plans; 
• The establishment of new businesses or businesses in new geographical areas; 
• Acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects and material contracts; and 
• Changes to the Group’s capital, corporate or management structure. 
All Directors receive written reports prior to each Board meeting that enable them to take informed decisions on the corporate and business issues 
which they are considering. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are followed and is available 
to individual Directors for advice on those procedures. 
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Group Chief Executive in ensuring new Directors receive appropriate training and induction 
to the Company and that on-going training for Directors is provided when a need for such training is identified as part of the Board’s annual 
evaluation process. 
Board evaluation 
The Board conducted a formal evaluation of its performance and of the principal board Committees during the year under the leadership of the 
Chairman and the respective Committee chairmen. The Board and each Committee has concluded that its performance and that of its individual 
members is satisfactory and is aligned with the Company’s strategic objectives and the interests of shareholders. 
Board Committees 
The Board has established the following Committees details of which are set out below, each with defined terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities 
and powers. Each Committee reviews its terms of reference and effectiveness at least annually. The minutes of Committee meetings are sent to 
all Directors and oral reports of Committee activities are given at Board meetings. The terms of reference of the Board Committees are available, 
on request, from the Company Secretary. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr P G M Derry and comprises, Mr P G M Derrey, Ms A Lesniak and Ms L I Baldry. Although Mr P G M Derrey 
is not considered to be an independent Non-Executive Director, the Board considers that in view of his recent and relevant experience and ability 
to devote the necessary time to the role, he is the best person to chair the Committee. 
The external auditors, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend 
meetings of the Committee and the Committee also meets separately with the external auditors without management present. The Audit Committee 
discharges its responsibilities by meeting at least three times a year to: 
• Review the interim and annual financial statements prior to submission to the Board; 
• Keep under review the operation and effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial control and accounting policies; 
• Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s operational and compliance controls and risk management; 
• Review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors; and 
• Review internal audit plans and reports.   
 www.dtz.com 
 
27
The Audit Committee also reviews the scope and cost of both internal and external audit and makes a recommendation to the Board regarding  
re-appointment of the external auditors. 
As part of its role in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, the Audit Committee agrees with the external auditors 
which types of work the external auditors are permitted to undertake and monitors the nature and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the 
external auditors. 
In forming their opinion of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee takes into account the safeguards 
operating within Deloitte LLP and that the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff has not been impaired. This includes details 
of changes in external audit executives in the audit plan in accordance with the external auditor’s policy on rotating audit executives. In particular, 
the senior statutory auditor became lead partner in 2009 after the rotation of the previous audit partner. Regard is given to the nature of remuneration 
received for other services provided by Deloitte LLP to the Company and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the 
annual audit is adequate to enable them to fulfil their obligation in relation to the scope of the audit. 
The Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee as a whole have sufficient recent and relevant experience to carry out the functions 
of the Committee and has not identified a particular member of the Committee as having such experience. 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman and comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, Mr F Piédelièvre, Ms A Lesniak 
and Ms L I Baldry. 
The Committee meets as and when required to: 
• Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations as to any changes; 
• Keep under review the leadership needs of the Company and consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives; 
• Assist in identifying and become involved in the selection process for candidates to fill Board vacancies; and 
• Evaluate the time required to be spent by the Non-Executive Directors and ensure that what is required of them is clearly specified. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ms A Lesniak and comprises Ms A Lesniak, the Chairman, Ms L I Baldry and Mr F Piédelièvre. 
Although Mr F Piédelièvre is not considered to be an independent Non-Executive Director, the Board considers that it is appropriate that he be a 
member of the Remuneration Committee in order that the views of SAS Saint George Participations, as a substantial shareholder in the Company, 
are reflected in the deliberations of the Committee. The Committee meets at least once a year and considers, for recommendation to the Board, 
Company policy on remuneration and conditions of service, and, within the terms of the agreed policy, approves the composition and level 
of remuneration of Executive Directors, the Chairman and such other members of the Executive Management as it is designated to consider. 
When the Committee considers matters relating to an individual, that person is not present nor does that person act in relation to any matters 
relating to him. 
The remuneration report is on pages 30 to 38. 
Meetings 
During the year there were nine Board meetings, five Audit Committee meetings, four Remuneration Committee meetings and one Nomination 
Committee meeting. Attendance at these meetings by individual Directors of the relevant committees is given in the table below: 
Board Audit* Remuneration Nomination
T D Melville-Ross 9–  4 1
P T Idzik 9–  – –
CY Leung 7–  – –
P J Stone
(a)
 73  4 1
A Lesniak
(b)
 85  4 1
F Piédelièvre
(c)
 9–  2 1
F Tardan 8–  – –
P G M Derrey
(d)
 95  1 –
R G Rickert
(e)
 8–  – –
L I Baldry
(f)
 11  1 –
(a) 
P J Stone resigned on 30 April 2010. 
(b)
 A Lesniak was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 2009. 
(c)
 F Piédelièvre was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in November 2009. 
(d)
 P G M Derrey was a member of the Remuneration Committee until November 2009. 
(e)
 R G Rickert was appointed as an Executive Director on 27 May 2009. 
(f)
 L I Baldry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2010. 
* R G Rickert additionally attended all the Audit Committee meetings during the year.  Statement of Corporate Governance continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
28 
Relations with shareholders 
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice each year, when its half-year and full-year results are announced. The AGM takes place 
in London and all the Directors who are able to attend are available, formally at the meeting and informally afterwards, for questions. 
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director hold regular meetings throughout the year with institutional investors and analysts. 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements. The Directors are required to prepare financial statements 
for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by EU (‘IFRSs’). Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Company’s financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance 
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s 
‘Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable IFRSs. Directors are also required to: 
• Properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact 
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and 
• Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and 
for the preparation of a Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website, in so far as it relates to the financial statements. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Statement on internal control and risk management 
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management. The system of control is designed to enable 
the Board to govern and manage the business to achieve the Group’s risk management objectives. A system of internal control can provide reasonable 
but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. 
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management. The review is informed in 
a number of ways: Our internal Audit function provides an independent opinion on the operation of controls through the delivery of its audit 
programme; the Group Director of Risk Management and Compliance provides a report that explains developments in the system of internal 
control over the preceding 12 months; and managers within the organisation, who have responsibility for the operation of the system of internal 
control, provide assurance that it operates through ongoing management review processes. 
The principal elements of the Group’s system of internal control and risk management are: 
• The Board and its various Committees have defined financial authorities and operational responsibilities which are designed to enable effective 
decision making and organisational control; 
• An organisation and management structure operates across the business to enable the delivery of services to our clients and operational control 
of business activities; 
• Global policies and procedures which define expected standards and behaviours are being embedded across the Group. Our global policy 
framework includes policies on Finance, Operations, People and Business Controls;  
• Group Infrastructure functions: Finance, Human Resources and Global Technology Services have been centralised and are working to improve 
the standardisation of their respective operational procedures across the global operations;  
• A formal risk identification process takes place to evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with requirements 
of the Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance on internal control. A Group risk register identifies the risks the business faces, their potential 
impact, likelihood of occurrence and the key controls and action plans to mitigate these risks; 
• The Group Risk Management Committee meets quarterly to review the management of risk arising out of the Group’s activities and to monitor 
the status of key risks and actions; 
• Each of the Group’s regional businesses has a management team which together with respective regional Risk Committees meets to consider 
significant commercial matters, including risk management and internal control, for the DTZ subsidiaries in their geographic regions; 
• DTZ has standardised procedures for the delivery of its main services. These procedures are progressively being rolled out across our global 
operations. The operation of these procedures provides assurance on the standard of our service delivery. In the UK, these procedures are 
audited to the ISO9001 quality standard;   
 www.dtz.com 
 
29
• An internal audit function, which is subject to the controlling direction of the Audit Committee provides the Audit Committee with an independent 
assessment of the Group’s system of internal control, through reviewing how effectively key risks are being managed, and assists management 
in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by carrying out independent appraisals and making recommendations for improvement. 
Internal audit reviews and testing activities are outsourced to BDO; 
• Certain aspects of the Group’s activities are also subject to regulatory control by external bodies such as the FSA; and 
• The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility to review the system of internal control. 
The system of internal control has been in place in DTZ Holdings plc for the year ended 30 April 2010, and up to the date of the approval 
of the annual report and accounts. 
Health & safety 
The Company recognises that the maintenance of high standards of health & safety management is imperative to ensure the welfare 
of its employees. Clients are also placing a greater emphasis on health & safety when deciding which service providers they will work 
with. DTZ is committed to continuously improving its health & safety performance and has now attained OHSAS 18001 accreditation in the 
UK which is a reflection of the Company’s investment in health & safety management.  
Managing the environment 
The Company regards the promotion of an environmental strategy as an important element in operating a successful business, not only 
to minimise its impact on global resources but also to maintain good investor and client relations. 
We have continued to implement significant improvements to help us reduce our negative impact on the environment. This has included the 
introduction of improved waste streaming and recycling, energy efficiency measures and the development of advice and support services to 
our clients. We also successfully attained ISO14001 certification for our environmental management system in Sweden as well as maintaining 
compliance with the standard in the UK. 
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board. 
 
Philip Cook  
Company Secretary 
13 July 2010 
  Directors’ Remuneration Report 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
30
Remuneration Committee Chair’s introduction 
Dear Shareholder, 
As the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2010. 
You will see that this year we have made important changes both to the layout and the content of the Report. We hope you will find it easier to read 
and understand. We will be seeking your approval of the Report at the AGM in September.  
Although market conditions over the past year have continued to be challenging, it has been a good year for DTZ as a business. We have made 
significant corporate progress, completed the restructuring of the business and returned to profitability on an operating basis. As a result, we are 
now better placed to focus on the markets and services where we have a competitive advantage and compete aggressively in those areas.  
Activities during the year  
Against this background, and as announced last year, the Remuneration Committee has continued its extensive review of remuneration policy 
and incentive schemes. This review is taking place in conjunction with a Group-wide review of remuneration across all levels at DTZ, which includes 
our One Firm Reward initiative. This is an initiative through which the Committee has now implemented global governance of reward and has a renewed 
view on compensation throughout the world for senior executives below Board level, ahead of emerging market practice. More details on One Firm 
Reward can be found later in the Remuneration Report.  
In line with our strategic priorities as a business, we want to ensure that remuneration arrangements across the Group enable the business to: 
• Improve shareholder value by pursuing profitable organic revenue growth in our target markets; 
• Continue our cost containment initiatives; and 
• Become the best real estate services firm in our chosen markets by taking a ‘One Firm’ approach.  
Our employees have played a major part in helping us reduce our cost base through their support of the temporary reduction to their remuneration 
packages. For that they have the Committee’s gratitude. Details of the reductions to Executive Directors’ salaries and pension contributions are 
provided in the main body of the Remuneration Report.  
In addition, as part of this review process, alongside the ongoing monitoring of its own operation, the Remuneration Committee has over 
the past year: 
• Updated its terms of reference to enable fulfilment of a wider remit. The new terms of reference are available on the Company’s website 
or on request from the Company Secretary;  
• Reviewed its own membership to ensure that members bring to the table wider sector as well as other board experience and represent 
the interests of shareholders in a balanced and independent way;  
• Appointed independent executive reward consultants, Hay Group, to provide a wide range of external advice on matters considered 
by the Committee;  
• Enhanced the level of disclosure provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report;  
• As provided for by its updated terms of reference, considered the impact of the remuneration policy, and in particular, the performance related 
arrangements, on the risk-taking attitude of executives and senior management. 
We want to ensure that, once finalised, we have a reward philosophy, policy and practices which continue to be aligned to our strategy and the way 
we do business. It is our firm conviction that, by spending time doing this properly, we can avoid making ad hoc changes in the future. As such, the 
Committee has met four times since November and has engaged in full and frank discussions. As a consequence, we are developing a policy which 
we believe properly aligns the pay of our Executive Directors and other senior executives within the Group to shareholders’ interests, our strategy 
and operations. Our One Firm Reward initiative will ensure the same alignment for all employees.  
Changes to the Committee’s composition 
Peter Stone (who was Chairman of the Committee until October) retired both from the Committee and from the Group’s Board this year after nine 
years in his role as an Independent Non-executive Director. Pascal Derrey retired from the Committee but remains a member of the Group Board.  
I would like to thank both of them for their contribution to the workings of the Committee.  
I would also like to welcome Lorraine Baldry and Frank Piédelièvre to the Committee. They both bring extensive knowledge and experience and 
are already adding value with the work, support and advice they are giving to the Committee.  
The rest of the report provides more detail on our remuneration arrangements.  
 
Alicja Lesniak  
Remuneration Committee Chair 
13 July 2010   
 www.dtz.com 
 
31
Introduction 
This report sets out DTZ’s remuneration policy for Directors, its implementation and the amounts paid in 2009/10. It has been prepared 
in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. In accordance with 
the Regulations, the report has been divided into different parts for audited and unaudited information.  
A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 September 2010.  
Part A − Unaudited information 
Remuneration Committee summary  
Remuneration Committee membership A Lesniak (Chair from November 2009) 
 T D Melville-Ross 
 F Piédelièvre (from November 2009) 
 L I Baldry (from April 2010) 
 P J Stone (until April 2010) (Chair until October 2009) 
 P G M Derrey (until November 2009) 
External advisers Hay Group 
Internal advisers Group Chief Executive 
 Group HR Director 
 Global Reward and Recognition Director 
 Company Secretary (Committee Secretary) 
Terms of reference Available at www.dtz.com  
The Remuneration Committee  
The membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year is shown in the table above. All Committee members have been selected for 
their wide sector expertise, other board experience and because they are believed to represent the interests of all shareholders in a balanced 
and independent way.  
The Board recognises that Mr F Piédelièvre cannot be considered independent owing to the fact that he has been nominated by SAS Saint George 
Participations. However, as explained in the corporate governance section of the annual report on pages 26 to 29, the Board considers it appropriate 
that the views of SAS Saint George Participations, as a substantial shareholder in the Company, are reflected in the deliberations of the Committee. 
In accordance with the Code, Mr T D Melville-Ross is a member of the Committee as he was considered independent on appointment as Chairman, 
but he does not chair the Committee.  
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which are available on the Company’s website or can be obtained 
by the Company Secretary. Its main responsibilities are to: 
• Recommend to the Board the framework for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors, and other senior executives; 
• Ensure that the remuneration policy provides appropriate incentives to create long-term shareholder value, whilst rewarding executives 
for their individual contribution in a fair and responsible manner; 
• Determine the design of, and targets for, Group performance-related pay arrangements operated by the Company and the total annual 
payments under such arrangements;  
• Ensure that such performance-related arrangements take into account the impact on executive’s risk-taking profile; 
• Make recommendations for approval by the Board and shareholders on the design of long-term incentive plans, the performance targets 
and the level of awards to Executive Directors and other senior executives;  
• Approve the total remuneration package available to Executive Directors and other senior executives; and 
• Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each Executive Director and other designated senior executives and oversee 
any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.  
In determining the total remuneration packages for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Committee takes into account the 
remuneration policy and levels elsewhere in the Group. In particular, the Company aims to provide market competitive remuneration across 
the Group and the Committee gives consideration to how pay levels for other senior managers as well as the wider employee population compare 
against each relevant market.  
Advice to the Remuneration Committee  
The Group Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the Global Reward and Recognition Director are invited to join the Committee’s meetings, 
as appropriate, to provide business and other technical expertise to specific items discussed. The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary 
to the Committee. No Director takes part in discussions about his or her own remuneration.  Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
32
Following a tender process during the year, the Committee appointed independent executive reward consultants, Hay Group, to provide external 
advice on a wide range of matters considered by the Committee and to assist in the review of remuneration arrangements and incentive schemes. 
Hay Group is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is committed to upholding its principles. No other services were 
provided to the Company by Hay Group during the year.  
Executive remuneration policy review  
DTZ is a complex, international business operating in a highly competitive and cyclical environment and relying heavily on the expertise of its 
people. As part of the Group strategy, we aim to reward our people for their individual contribution to the achievement of our strategic priorities, 
which for the current financial year are to:  
• Pursue profitable organic revenue growth in our target markets; 
• Continue our cost containment initiatives;  
• Deepen our current client relationships by delivering the benefits of the ‘One Firm’ approach; and 
• Ensure that we are perceived to be a good place to work by talent in our key markets.  
In addition to rewarding the individual contribution and market value of our people, we firmly believe that a significant proportion of total 
remuneration should be linked to the delivery of results and the creation of value for our shareholders.  
The Committee reviews on an annual basis whether the remuneration policy remains appropriate for the relevant financial year. 
Factors taken into account by the Committee include: 
• Market conditions affecting the Company; 
• The recruitment market in the Company’s sector; 
• Changing market practice; and 
• The views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies. 
Whilst the existing remuneration policy goes some way to meeting these objectives, the Committee is of the view that simplifying reward and 
bringing employees together would more closely align executives with the new strategy and the interests of shareholders. Therefore, as explained 
last year, the Committee began an extensive remuneration policy review working in partnership with the HR function. This is in conjunction with a 
Board wide review of policies throughout the organisation at all levels. An external and independent perspective has been provided by our advisers, 
Hay Group.  
As part of this remuneration review, we have begun the process of reviewing the operation of incentive plans throughout the Company with a view 
to reducing the number of plans in operation as part of our One Firm Reward initiative. The principle behind One Firm Reward is to achieve greater 
consistency and better align variable pay to the profits generated for shareholders. This is a Company-wide initiative led by Group HR and is not 
restricted to executive directors. There has also been a general move away from plans based on individual performance and revenue generation 
and towards Company and country profitability. We will continue to operate commission-based plans where it is clearly in the best interest of our 
shareholders, our employees and the Group as a whole to do so.  
The ultimate aim is to deliver ‘One Firm Reward’, subject to the need to offer pay arrangements that allow the Company to recruit high quality 
staff in all its markets. It is important that our treatment of employees below Board informs our approach to Executive Director remuneration.  
Elements of current executive remuneration packages  
The current remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises the following elements, structured to relate reward to both corporate 
and individual performance: 
• Salary;  
• Annual performance-related bonus; 
• Long term incentive arrangements; and  
• Pension and other benefits.    
 www.dtz.com 
 
33
The following table shows how the current components of executive reward are aligned with the overall business strategy.  
Package component Executive remuneration policy Alignment to corporate strategy 
Salary 
 
− Reviewed annually 
 
− Market competitive pay levels enable DTZ to attract 
and retain high quality professional talent 
 
− Executive salaries temporarily reduced as part  
of wider-firm initiatives in 2009/10 
− Temporary reductions in executive salaries 
to support cost base reduction 
 
− Benchmarked against companies of a similar  
size, complexity and sector  
Annual performance related  
bonus plan 
− Based on both corporate (profit and operational 
targets) and individual objectives  
− Focus on improving profitability, in accordance  
with strategic priorities 
  − Reward individual contribution 
Long Term Reward Plan  − Deferral of bonuses over £100,000 − Retention, sustainable performance 
(four components) − Co-Investment plan with matching shares − Reward financial commitment, encourage retention 
 − LTIP awards typically linked to EPS targets − Longer-term share ownership  
 − Share Option awards typically linked to EPS targets − Profitability and value creation 
Pension  
 
− Employer pension contributions suspended  
with effect from July 2009 
− Cost preservation 
 
  
− In line with performance-driven culture focusing  
on variable pay 
Other benefits  
 
− Typically car, medical insurance and  
life assurance cover  
− Provision of market competitive benefits in order  
to attract the best talent  
Salary  
Basic salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed by the Committee annually, with regard to competitive market practices and remuneration levels 
in companies which it considers to be comparable by taking into account their size, sector, geographical scope and complexity, the Committee’s 
own judgement of the performance of the Group’s businesses and the contribution made by individual Directors. 
In light of the difficult economic circumstances of last year and in line with many employees throughout the Company, both UK-based Executive 
Directors took a voluntary reduction in base salary during the year under review. Mr P T Idzik and Mr R G Rickert were the first to take any reduction 
in salary and their reductions were the highest in the Company in percentage terms. Their salaries will remain at a reduced level for longer than any 
other employee. Their base salaries on appointment and following the temporary reduction are shown in the table below.  
Executive Salary on appointment Salary following temporary reduction
P T Idzik  £400,000 £300,000
R G Rickert £325,000 £290,000
Pensions and benefits  
Mr P T Idzik and Mr R G Rickert are members of the Company’s UK non-contributory defined contribution pension scheme and are eligible for 
an employer contribution of 15% of gross salary per annum. In line with the arrangements put in place for other employees following consultation, 
the Company suspended all employer pension contributions into this plan with effect from July 2009.  
Mr CY Leung is a member of a local defined contribution pension scheme in Hong Kong, to which monthly contributions of HK$1,000 are made.  
The other main benefits provided to the Executive Directors are the use of a Company car or the provision of a cash allowance, medical insurance 
and life assurance cover and in the case of Mr R G Rickert certain repatriation benefits.  
Annual performance related bonus plan 
A significant number of staff, including Executive Directors, participate in a performance-related bonus plan. Payments under the plan are based 
on the achievement of profit and operational targets, which are set so that they are relevant both to the specific circumstances of the Company 
and the performance of the individual against their annually agreed objectives. In the case of the Executive Directors, any performance-related 
bonus is based on the achievement of their personal objectives and Group performance. 
Bonus payments to Paul Idzik and Bob Rickert 
As disclosed last year, Mr P T Idzik was entitled to a guaranteed bonus of £300,000 in respect of his first year of employment with the Company, 
which was paid in the year under review. In addition, Mr R G Rickert is entitled to guaranteed bonus payments of £925,000 in each of years one 
and two of his employment. The first of these payments was paid in the year under review.   Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
34
The Committee recognises that providing an element of guaranteed bonus to the Executive Directors would not normally be considered UK 
corporate governance best practice.  
However, given the exceptional circumstances of both appointments and the need to attract what the Board considers to be the best talent 
available into the role, the Committee determined that this was the most appropriate course of action. Both Executive Directors were brought 
in during a transitionary period for the Company to assist in a turnaround situation and were provided with market-competitive arrangements 
that reflect the markets they were recruited from. It should be noted that the Company bonus scheme in which Mr P T Idzik and Mr R G Rickert 
participate is in all other respects performance-related.  
Under the performance-related element of the bonus scheme, the Committee determined that the achievement of stretching financial and strategic 
objectives including significant restructuring of the business should result in the payment of an additional £600,000 to Mr P T Idzik. The Committee 
further determined that a payment of £150,000 should be made to Mr R G Rickert to reflect his additional remit as Group Finance Director 
(in addition to his role as Global Chief Operating Officer). It was further decided that the payment to Mr R G Rickert should be in the form of shares 
under the Company’s Deferred Share Plan. This award of shares is shown in the table on page 37 and the amount has also been included in the 
Directors’ Emoluments table on the same page.  
All cash bonus payments to individuals who served as Executive Directors during 2009/10 are included in the Directors’ Emoluments table on page 37. 
DTZ 2006 Long Term Reward Plan (the ‘Plan’) 
No widespread awards under the Plan were made this year because the Company was restructuring and a review of incentive arrangements 
is currently being undertaken.  
The Plan has four components. The arrangements currently in place are summarised in the table below and explained in detail in the following 
sections. The Committee is in the process of reviewing the operation of the Plan with a view to ensuring that its structure and operation continues 
to support the revised business strategy. It is not anticipated that any awards will be made under the Co-Investment or LTIP components of the 
Plan in the current financial year.  
  Deferred bonus (before 2010) Co-investment LTIP awards Share options 
Eligibility 
 
If over £100,000 bonus 
 
By invitation 
 
Senior management (including Executive 
Directors) by invitation 
By invitation 
 
Underlying  
Structure 
Nil-cost stock  
option plan 
Nil-cost stock option 
 
Nil-cost stock option 
 
Market cost  
stock option 
Award Size 10% of annual bonus 
(20% if over £200,000) 
deferred into shares 
Member elects invested amount.  
0.2 – 1 matching share awarded  
per co-invested share 
Up to 250% of salary (400%  
in exceptional circumstances) 
 
No limit  
on options 
 
Normal Performance 
Conditions 
None 
 
EPS growth over RPI 
 
EPS growth over RPI 
 
EPS growth  
over RPI 
Normal Performance 
Targets 
N/a  RPI + 5% p.a. – 20% match  
RPI + 12% p.a. – full match 
RPI + 5% p.a. – 20% of award vesting  
RPI + 12% p.a. – 100% vesting 
As under  
the LTIP 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 
Deferred bonus 
Under the Plan, a percentage of any annual bonus payable that exceeds a value prescribed each year by the Remuneration Committee will be 
delivered as an award of deferred shares, the receipt of which will be dependent on continuing employment within the Group over the three year 
period of deferral. This element of the Plan incorporates the previous deferred bonus arrangements. 
Co-investment 
Under the Plan, the Committee may invite selected employees (including Executive Directors) to make a further investment in shares which must be 
held for a three year period. Individuals who participate in Co-investment will receive awards of free matching shares. The matching shares will vest 
at the end of the three year retention period, subject to the satisfaction of the EPS performance condition, if the individual remains in employment 
with the Group and to the extent that he has retained his Co-invested shares.  
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards 
LTIP awards are designed to provide a long-term focus to senior members of the management team, including Executive Directors. Each year, 
the Committee determines individual levels of participation. At the 2009 AGM, maximum grants were increased to 250% of annual base salary 
(400% in exceptional circumstances). Awards vest at the end of a three year period, providing the participant continues to be employed within 
the Group and to the extent that any performance conditions have been met over the performance period.  
Company Share Option Plan (COSOP) options 
The Plan provides for the grant of market value options. The COSOP comprises an HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved section and an 
unapproved section. Options over shares having a value at the time of grant of up to the limit specified from time to time by HMRC (currently 
£30,000) will be granted under the HMRC approved section and all other COSOP options will be granted under the unapproved section. 
Any COSOP options granted to Executive Directors would normally be subject to the same performance conditions as under the LTIP.   
 www.dtz.com 
 
35
Recruitment and replacement awards to Paul Idzik and Bob Rickert  
The Committee determined that a major element of the sign-on compensation in the joining packages for Mr P T Idzik and Mr R G Rickert should 
be equity-based to ensure an immediate alignment with the interests of shareholders.  
All awards granted to Mr P T Idzik on appointment were described in full in last year’s remuneration report and are shown in the table on page 38.  
In addition to the awards granted to him by the Company, Mr P T Idzik made a significant investment in Group shares using his own funds.  
Mr R G Rickert is entitled to awards of market priced options to the value of £500,000 in respect of each of years 1 and 2 of his employment. 
The first of these grants was awarded during the year under review and is shown in the table on page 38. This arrangement is similar to the joining 
package provided to Mr P T Idzik.  
The Committee determined that the vesting of these options should not be subject to any additional performance conditions (there is an inherent 
performance condition in the option because of the requirement that the share price increase above the exercise price for any value to accrue) 
for the following reasons: 
• Both Executive Directors have been recruited to implement a new strategy for the Company and during this period of transition the Committee 
felt that it would not be possible to set a meaningful financial performance condition over a three year future period; 
• The turmoil in the Company’s market, the new strategy and the starting position for the Company meant that any comparative total shareholder 
return target would not be a fair condition for any stakeholder in the Company including shareholders; and 
• The inherent requirement of a market priced option that the share price increase above the exercise price was a transparent performance 
condition which should reflect over the vesting period the success of the Executive team in restoring and enhancing shareholder value 
and, therefore, this type of option provided the most effective alignment of interests between the Executive Directors and shareholders. 
Mr R G Rickert was also granted two awards of share options under the Deferred Bonus element of the Plan as buy-out of the deferred shares 
forfeited as a result of his resignation from Barclays plc. These are shown in the table on page 37.  
All employee share incentive arrangements 
At the AGM in September 2006 approval was given to implement a new Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’). This was in order to ensure the alignment 
of all of the Group’s UK employees’ interests with those of shareholders and to provide them with an opportunity to invest in the Company. 
The SIP provides for free shares, partnership shares and matching shares but for the foreseeable future it is being restricted to the purchase 
by employees of partnership shares. 
The SIP is an HMRC approved all-employee scheme under which employees must generally participate on similar terms. 
Individual Directors’ remuneration  
The following pie charts show the balance between salary and benefits and other elements of pay for each Executive Director based on 
their current remuneration arrangements. The pie charts are based on the actual salary, bonus and benefit amounts received during the year. 
Awards of nil-cost options have been included on the basis of the face value of the awards at grant. Awards of market-priced options have 
been included on the basis of the fair value of the awards at grant.  
 
Salary & Beneﬁts Bonus & LTRP
Paul Idzik
75%
25%
     
Salary & Beneﬁts Bonus & LTRP
Bob Rickert
75%
25%
     
69%
31%
Salary & Beneﬁts Bonus & LTRP
CY Leung
 
  Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
36
Executive Directors’ contracts 
It is the Company’s policy to normally provide for a notice period of no greater than six months in the service contracts of Executive Directors. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts do not normally include provision for a specific payment in the event of early termination. 
The following provisions are contained in the contract of Mr P T Idzik in relation to his cessation of employment following a change of control 
of the Company: 
(a) where Mr P T Idzik is required to relinquish his role following a change of control;  
(b) prior to 1 November 2010 Mr P T Idzik will be entitled to a payment of 1.75 times the amount of 12 months’ target total compensation; and 
(c) after 1 November 2010 Mr P T Idzik will be entitled to a payment of 1.75 times the amount of 12 months’ base salary. 
As previously stated, the Committee believed that it was in the Company’s and shareholders’ interests to find the best international candidate for 
the role and therefore that some compromise of UK best practice was required to recruit this candidate. Further the Committee felt that given the 
challenge of the role and some of the potential outcomes that some degree of security in terms of employment was required to allow Mr P T Idzik 
to perform without distractions. 
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors are set out in the table below:  
Name Date of contract Normal notice period
CY Leung 14 December 2006 6 months
P T Idzik 25 October 2008 3 months
R G Rickert 1 March 2009 6 months
External appointments 
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such 
appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Company. Any such appointment must be approved by 
the Board. An individual Director will normally be required to account to the Company for fees received in respect of such directorships 
unless otherwise approved. 
No Executive Director holds any external appointments that would interfere with their duties as Directors of the Group.  
Shareholding guidelines  
The Remuneration Committee has not established formal shareholding guidelines as in its opinion these would be superfluous at this time. 
Two of the Executive Directors (Mr P T Idzik and Mr CY Leung) hold a substantial number of shares in the Company as shown in the table 
on page 39. All the Executive Directors have interests in shares under various share incentive arrangements as shown in the table on page 39.  
Non-Executive Directors  
Fees for the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board, having regard to the contribution required from 
and the responsibility taken by Non-Executive Directors and current market practice, including the level of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors 
of comparable companies. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance related bonuses or grants of options and their fees are 
not pensionable.  
All Non-Executive Directors are elected for a term of three years unless required under the rotation provisions of the Articles of the Company 
to submit for re-election. The appointment of Non-Executive Directors can be terminated by either party without notice or compensation. 
The dates of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.  
Name Date of appointment Date of current contract 
Unexpired period at 
30 April 2010
T D Melville-Ross 17 January 2000 17 January 2010 21 months
A Lesniak 8 March 2004 1 March 2010 35 months
F Piédelièvre 20 January 2009 20 January 2009 21 months
P G M Derrey 20 January 2009 20 January 2009 21 months
F Tardan 20 January 2009 20 January 2009 21 months
L I Baldry 1 April 2010 1 April 2010  35 months
   
 www.dtz.com 
 
37
Part B − Audited information 
The following table shows an analysis of the remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 30 April 2010. 
Directors’ emoluments for the year ended 30 April 2010  
Name 
Salary 
and fees 
£’000 
Performance 
related 
payments 
(Note 1)
£’000 
Benefits
£’000
Sub-total 
£’000 
Pension 
contributions 
(Note 2)
£’000 
Total 
2010 
£’000 
Total
2009
£’000
T D Melville-Ross (Note 3) 60 − − 60 −  60 80
CY Leung 363 584 97 1,044 1  1,045 668
P J Stone (Note 4) 37 − − 37 −  37 40
A Lesniak 37 − − 37 −  37 35
P T Idzik  300 900 39 1,239 10  1,249 242
F Piédelièvre 36 − − 36 −  36 10
F Tardan 36 − − 36 −  36 10
R G Rickert (Note 5)  270 1,075 159 1,504 12  1,516 −
L I Baldry (Note 6) 3 − − 3 −  3 −
P G M Derrey 35 − − 35 −  35 10
Total continuing directors 1,177 2,559 295 4,031 23  4,054 1,095
Non continuing directors − − − − −  − 1,282
Total 1,177 2,559 295 4,031 23  4,054 2,377
Note 1: In respect of Mr R G Rickert, the performance-related payments disclosed above include £150,000 awarded in the form of shares under the DTZ Holdings plc Deferred Share Plan. 
This award is also shown in the table below. In respect to Mr CY Leung, half of the performance-related payments disclosed above are made in the form of shares under the DTZ 
Holdings plc Deferred Share Plan. This award of shares was made after the year-end. 
Note 2: Pension contributions to the Group’s money purchase pension scheme include, where appropriate, salary sacrifices made by individual Directors. The Company’s normal contribution 
to the pension scheme is 15% of basic salary. Contributions were suspended with effect from July 2009. 
Note 3: During the year, Mr T D Melville-Ross took a voluntary reduction in fees from £80,000 to £60,000. 
Note 4: Mr P J Stone retired as a Non-Executive Director on 30 April 2010. 
Note 5: Mr R G Rickert was appointed to the Board on 27 May 2009. 
Note 6: Ms L I Baldry was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010.  
Directors’ nil cost share options under the DTZ Holdings plc Deferred Share Plan 
Name 
Granted 
as at 
1 May 2009 
Granted  
during 
the year 
Exercised 
during 
the year 
At 
30 April 2010
Value at
grant
£
Notional dividend
accrued at 
30 April 2010
Exercise 
 price 
Date from
which
exercisable Expiry date
P T Idzik 925,925 − − 925,925 250,000 − Nil 25 Oct 2010 25 Oct 2011
CY Leung 50,000 − − 50,000 78,000 1,528 Nil 15 July 2011 15 July 2012
 − 673,425 − 673,425 296,307 − Nil 23 July 2011 23 July 2012
 − 165,000 − 165,000 72,600 − Nil 23 July 2012 23 July 2013
R G Rickert* − 94,761 − 94,761 25,585 − Nil 1 March 2010 1 March 2011
 − 187,813 − 187,813 50,710 − Nil 1 March 2011 1 March 2012
 − 200,000 − 200,000 150,000 − Nil 6 Nov 2012 6 Nov 2013
Total 975,925 1,320,999 − 2,296,924 
* Mr R G Rickert was appointed to the Board on 27 May 2009. 
The above grants are not subject to performance targets being satisfied. 
In respect of the 925,925 options granted to Mr P T Idzik, 555,555 were delivered through the Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’). 
The mid-market price of the Company’s shares at 1 May 2009 and 30 April 2010 was 44.5 pence and 70.0 pence respectively. The share price 
during the year ranged from 40.0 pence to 115.0 pence.  Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
38
Directors’ share options under the Company Share Option Plan (‘COSOP’) 
Name 
At  
1 May 2009 
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
At
30 April 2010 Option price 
Date from  
which  
exercisable Expiry date
P T Idzik 1,851,850 − − 1,851,850 27 16 Jan 2012 15 Jan 2019
 − 1,136,363 − 1,136,363 44 23 July 2012 22 July 2019
R G Rickert* − 1,136,363 − 1,136,363 44 23 July 2012 22 July 2019
Total 1,851,850 2,272,726−4,124,576  
* Mr R G Rickert was appointed to the Board on 27 May 2009. 
In respect of the 1,136,363 options granted to Mr R G Rickert, 28,410 were delivered through the Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’). 
The option grants to Mr P T Idzik and Mr R G Rickert are not subject to performance targets being satisfied. 
Directors’ Long Term Incentive Plan awards (‘LTIP’) 
Name At 1 May 2009
Granted 
during
the year
Exercised 
during
the year At 30 April 2010 Award price 
Date upon 
which the award 
will vest
CY Leung 75,000 − − 75,000 Nil 15 July 2011
 − 200,000 − 200,000 Nil 23 July 2012
Total 75,000200,000−275,000  
The LTIP awards as set out above will vest subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Plan and also subject to the EPS-based Performance Target being met. 
Co-Investment by Directors 
No Co-Investment Plan Awards are presently held by the Directors as at 30 April 2010 (2009: nil). 
TSR graph 
The graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) for the five years ended 30 April 2010 against the FTSE Small Cap Index. 
The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE Small Cap Index, as it is an index of companies of similar size to the Company, of which 
the Company is a constituent, and therefore provides a good indication of the Company’s general performance during the period.  
TSR Performance over period 29/04/2005 – 30/04/2010 
DTZ Holdings PLC FTSE Smallcap Index
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
May 10 May 09 May 08 May 07 May 06 May 05
 
This report was approved by the Board on 13 July 2010 and signed on its behalf by 
 
Alicja Lesniak  
Remuneration Committee Chair 
13 July 2010 
 
  Other Statutory Information 
 
 www.dtz.com 
 
39
The Directors present their twenty-third Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010. 
Principal activities 
DTZ Holdings plc continues to be the holding company of a group of companies acting as national and international property advisers 
and consultants worldwide, offering comprehensive integrated property advice and economic consultancy services to clients. 
Review of business and future prospects 
Revenue 
Revenue, derived from the above activities, decreased from £364.1 million to £356.0 million during the year ended 30 April 2010. 
Group results 
The Directors report a profit before taxation and exceptional items of £3.6 million compared with a loss of £35.1 million for the previous 
year, along with a loss after taxation and exceptional items of £23.4 million (2009: loss of £86.9 million). 
Equity shareholders’ funds at 30 April 2010 amounted to £54.9 million (2009: £67.7 million). 
Enhanced business review 
A review of the business, future prospects and the principal risks and uncertainties it faces are contained within the Business Review on pages 4 to 23. 
The principal financial risks are discussed in note 22 to the financial statements. 
Dividends 
The Board considered it prudent not to declare a final dividend in September 2009 or an interim dividend in February 2010. The dividend 
policy has again been considered and the Board has decided that it will not be paying a final dividend to shareholders in September 2010. 
Directors 
The present membership of the Board is set out on pages 24 and 25. All Directors served throughout the year with the exception of  
Ms L I Baldry, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2010 and who offers herself for election. In accordance with  
the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr P T Idzik, Ms A Lesniak and Mr F Piédelièvre retire as Directors at the forthcoming AGM and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
None of the Directors had any interest in any material contract during the year relating to the business of the Company. 
The interests of Directors and their families in the shares of the Company were: 
 Number of ordinary shares of 5 pence each
 
Beneficial
1 May 2009
Beneficial 
30 April 2010 
Non-beneficial
1 May 2009
Non-beneficial 
30 April 2010 
T D Melville-Ross 211,637 211,637 – –
P T Idzik 3,703,703 3,703,703 – –
CY Leung 7,227,838 7,227,838 – –
P J Stone
(a)
 237,500 237,500 – –
A Lesniak 22,500 22,500 – –
F Piédelièvre 4,253,854 4,253,854 – –
F Tardan – – – –
P G M Derrey 564,738 564,738 – –
R G Rickert
(b) (c)
 – – – –
L I Baldry
(d)
 – – – –
(a)
 P J Stone resigned on 30 April 2010. 
(b)
 R G Rickert was appointed as an Executive Director on 27 May 2009. 
(c)
 R G Rickert held 660 shares at 30 April 2010 within the Share Investment Plan (‘SIP’). 
(d)
 L I Baldry was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2010. 
There have been no purchases or sales of shares by the Directors between 1 May 2009 and 30 April 2010 apart from regular purchases within the SIP by R G Rickert. 
Since 30 April 2010, there have been no changes in the shareholding interests of the above Directors and their families. 
As disclosed in the above table, none of the Directors (or their spouses) as trustees of trusts established for the benefit of their respective 
children or those of other Directors or former Directors of companies in the Group, hold any non-beneficial interests in shares of the Company. 
As at 30 April 2010, all the above Directors are interested in 7,396,679 ordinary shares (2009: 8,319,188) held by DT&C Limited, a subsidiary 
of the Company, as trustee of the Company’s Discretionary Employee Benefit Trust, which holds the shares in trust for Group employees. 
Between 30 April 2010 and 25 June 2010, this figure has decreased to 7,346,679. 
In addition, Mr P T Idzik, Mr R G Rickert and Mr CY Leung have been granted share option awards. Full details are included in the 
Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 30 to 38.  Other Statutory Information continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
40 
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 25 June 2010, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Company’s ordinary share capital in accordance with Chapter 5 
of the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency rules: 
 At 30 April 2010 At 25 June 2010
Substantial interests (ordinary shares of 5 pence each) Shares % Shares % 
Saint George Participations, Piédelièvre & Associés, Stéphane Mathy,  
Michel Jacquet & Derrey’s 146,693,928 55.28
 
146,693,928 55.27
Standard Life Investments 17,464,974 6.58 17,954,974 6.76
Donaldsons LLP 8,794,568 3.31 8,521,487 3.21
AEGON UK Group of Companies 8,187,959 3.08 8,029,908 3.03
Other than as shown, the Company is not aware of any shareholder with an interest of three per cent or more in the ordinary issued share capital of the Company. 
Employee involvement 
The Directors recognise that the key to delivering consistent high-quality client services lies in the skill, loyalty and motivation of all its 
employees. It is the policy of the Group that all employees are provided with support, advice, training and development opportunities  
to allow them to achieve their own potential within the framework of the business. 
The Group has made and continues to make substantial investment in network information technology, to improve service to clients,  
and facilitate good internal communications and information sharing. 
Employment of disabled persons 
The Group has continued its existing policy regarding the employment of disabled persons. Full and fair consideration is given to 
applications for employment made by disabled persons, taking into account their particular aptitudes and abilities and the nature 
of the work involved. Appropriate training is available for disabled employees, including retraining for alternative work if necessary 
for those employees who become disabled, to promote their career development within the Group. 
Donations 
During the year, the Group made donations for charitable purposes of £54,000 (2009: £138,000). No donations were made for political 
purposes (2009: nil). 
Creditor payment policy 
It is the Group’s normal policy to pay suppliers within the payment terms of the contract, where these have been agreed in advance, 
or within 30 days of the end of the calendar month of supply. Sub-contractors, in accordance with their contract terms, are paid when 
the Group is paid. As at 30 April 2010 creditor days were calculated at 46 days (2009: 44 days). 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Articles of Association grant indemnities to each of the Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law. 
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation to certain losses and liabilities, which may incur to third parties in the course of acting 
as Directors (or Company Secretary as the case may be) or employees of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries and associates. 
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position are set 
out in the Business Review on pages 4 to 23. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial Review on pages 11 to 14. In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management and its liquidity risk. 
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking reasonable account of possible changes in trading performance, show the Group should 
be able to operate within the level of its existing facilities and cash resources for the foreseeable future, being at least 12 months from the 
date of these accounts. As a consequence, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts.   
 www.dtz.com 
 
41
Auditors 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 
• So far as the Director is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware; and 
• The Director has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 
In the light of the acquisition by Deloitte LLP of a firm of property consultants, the Directors have decided to recommend to shareholders the 
appointment of a new firm of auditors in place of Deloitte LLP. The Directors have not finally determined the firm to be recommended but 
will have made such decision prior to the AGM and the resolution proposed at the AGM will include the name of the firm to be appointed. 
 
Philip Cook  
Company Secretary 
13 July 2010 
  Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
42 
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and 
• The management report, which is incorporated in the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 
By order of the Board 
  
Paul T. Idzik 
Group Chief Executive 
13 July 2010 
 Bob Rickert 
Group Finance Director and 
Global Chief Operating Officer 
13 July 2010 
  Independent Auditors’ Report 
 
 www.dtz.com 
 
43
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of DTZ Holdings plc 
We have audited the financial statements of DTZ Holdings plc 
for the year ended 30 April 2010 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow 
Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes 
in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss, 
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement and the related 
notes 1 to 31. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and as regards the parent company financial statements.  
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 April 2010 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report 
in relation to going concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review. 
 
Ian Krieger  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
London, United Kingdom 
13 July 2010 
  Financial Statements 
Consolidated Income Statement  
Year ended 30 April 2010 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
44 
Continuing operations Note 
Before
exceptional
items 
2010
£’000 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
2009 
£’000   
Exceptional 
items 
2010 
(note 5)
£’000  
Exceptional  
items  
2009  
(note 5) 
£’000   
2010  
£’000  
2009 
£’000  
Revenue  4 355,951 364,072   –  –   355,951  364,072  
Staff costs  6 (240,943) (269,366) (10,139) (12,050)   (251,082)  (281,416) 
Other operating costs   (108,476) (127,689) (9,463) (32,543)   (117,939)   (160,232) 
  (349,419) (397,055) (19,602) (44,593)   (369,021)  (441,648) 
Operating profit/ (loss) 7 6,532 (32,983) (19,602) (44,593)   (13,070)  (77,576) 
Share of profits in associated undertakings   2,240 2,536   –  –   2,240  2,536  
Total profit/ (loss) from operations including 
joint ventures and associated undertakings   8,772 (30,447) (19,602) (44,593)   (10,830)  (75,040) 
Income from other fixed asset investments   16 308   –  –   16  308  
Finance income  8 647 2,716   –  –   647  2,716  
Finance expense  8 (5,822) (7,674)  (6,929) –   (12,751)  (7,674) 
Net finance expense   (5,175) (4,958)  (6,929) –   (12,104)  (4,958) 
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities  
before taxation   3,613 (35,097) (26,531) (44,593)   (22,918)  (79,690) 
Taxation on profit/ (loss) on  
ordinary activities  9 (521) (7,216)  –  –   (521)  (7,216)  
Profit/ (loss) for the year from  
continuing operations   3,092 (42,313)  (26,531) (44,593)   (23,439)  (86,906) 
Attributable to:        
Equity shareholders of the parent   1,910 (42,731)  (26,531) (44,593)   (24,621)  (87,324) 
Minority interest   1,182 418   –  –   1,182  418  
  3,092 (42,313)  (26,531) (44,593)   (23,439)  (86,906) 
        
Basic earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share  12 0.74p (40.29)p  (9.60)p (82.75)p
Diluted earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share  12 0.74p (40.29)p  (9.60)p (82.75)p
 
   
Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Loss 
Year ended 30 April 2010 
  www.dtz.com 
 
45
 
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Loss for the period (23,439) (86,906)
 
Other comprehensive income: 
Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (4,800) (3,400)
Net revaluation of interest rate swap (23) (2,175)
Foreign exchange translation differences 1,127 4,839 
Tax on items directly taken to reserves – (473)
Transfers from reserves to income statement 2,759 116 
Other comprehensive loss for the period, net of tax (937) (1,093)
Total comprehensive loss for the period (24,376) (87,999)
  
  
Attributable to:  
Equity shareholders of the parent (25,558) (88,417)
Minority interests 1,182 418 
 (24,376) (87,999)
 
  Financial Statements continued 
Consolidated and Company  
Statement of Financial Position 
At 30 April 2010 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
46 
   Group  Company 
 Note  
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000 
 2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Non-current assets        
Intangible assets  13  138,899 139,903  – – 
Property, plant and equipment  14  20,268 26,317  – – 
Investments in associates and subsidiary companies 15  5,545 6,894  47,453 16,155 
Other investments – financial assets  16  403 929  – – 
Deferred tax assets  9  7,353 2,893  – – 
Trade and other receivables  18  35 43  – – 
   172,503 176,979  47,453 16,155 
Current assets        
Work in progress    4,749 6,726  – – 
Trade and other receivables  18  90,056 91,128  243,266 171,346 
Tax recoverable    850 4,279  – – 
Cash and cash equivalents  22  50,647 37,765  283 9,997 
   146,302 139,898  243,549 181,343 
Total assets    318,805 316,877   291,002 197,498 
Current liabilities        
Bank loans and overdrafts 21  (441) (328)  – – 
Trade and other payables  19  (115,773) (102,750)  (53,295) (5,580)
Tax liabilities    (5,457) (3,896)  – – 
Convertible loan notes 23  – (10,914)  – – 
Provisions  20  (7,428) (10,632)  – – 
   (129,099) (128,520)  (53,295) (5,580)
Non-current liabilities        
Bank loans and overdrafts 21  (97,680) (88,247)  (97,680) (88,247)
Retirement benefit obligations  27  (10,190) (6,041)  – – 
Trade and other payables  19  (16,893) (14,493)  (4,330) (4,119)
Deferred tax liabilities  9  (73) (73)  – – 
Provisions  20  (4,966) (4,357)  – – 
   (129,802) (113,211)  (102,010) (92,366)
Total liabilities    (258,901) (241,731)  (155,305) (97,946)
Net assets    59,904 75,146  135,697 99,552 
Equity        
Called-up share capital 24  13,269 12,011  13,269 12,011 
Share premium account   95,576 85,638  95,576 85,638 
Retained earnings   (63,540) (37,983)  27,075 5,169 
Equity reserves   1,031 49  – – 
Other reserves   8,544 7,948  (223) (3,266)
Equity shareholders’ funds   54,880 67,663  135,697 99,552 
Minority interest   5,024 7,483  – – 
Total equity   59,904 75,146  135,697 99,552 
The financial statements of DTZ Holdings plc (Company number: 2088415) were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 July 2010. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Paul T. Idzik 
Group Chief Executive 
 
 Bob Rickert 
Group Finance Director and 
Global Chief Operating Officer   
Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Changes in Equity 
At 30 April 2010 
  www.dtz.com 
 
47
 Group 
 
Called-up
share capital
£’000 
Share 
premium 
account
£’000 
Retained 
earnings
£’000 
Equity 
reserves
£’000 
Other 
reserves 
£’000 
Minority 
interest
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Balance at 1 May 2008 2,970 49,737 51,653 (3,098) 8,881 7,436 117,579 
(Loss)/ Profit for the period – – (87,324) – – 418 (86,906)
Other comprehensive income:       
Net actuarial loss on  
retirement benefit obligation – – – – (3,400) – (3,400)
Net revaluation of interest rate swap – – – – (2,175) – (2,175)
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – – 4,839 – 4,839 
Tax on items directly taken to reserves – – – – (473) – (473)
Transfers from reserves to income statement – – – – 116 – 116 
Total comprehensive income for the period – – (87,324) – (1,093) 418 (87,999)
Transactions with owners:        
Shares issued for cash in exchange  
for options exercised 1 14 – – – – 15 
Shares issued in connection with  
acquisition of a subsidiary 29 203 – – – – 232 
Shares issued for cash  
(net of transaction fees) 9,011 35,684 – – – – 44,695 
Interest charge on equity component  
of convertible loan notes – – – 61 – – 61 
Purchase of shares for  
Employee Benefit Trust – – – (1,630) – – (1,630)
Treasury shares issued – – (619) 4,716 – – 4,097 
Employee share options – – – – 160 – 160 
Equity dividends paid – – (1,693) – – – (1,693)
Dividend paid to minority interest – – – – – (2,396) (2,396)
Movement in minority interest – – – – – 2,025 2,025 
Balance at 1 May 2009 12,011 85,638 (37,983) 49 7,948 7,483 75,146 
(Loss)/ Profit for the period – – (24,621) – – 1,182 (23,439)
Other comprehensive income:        
Net actuarial loss on  
retirement benefit obligation – – – – (4,800) – (4,800)
Net revaluation of interest rate swap – – – – (23) – (23)
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – – 1,127 – 1,127 
Transfer from reserves to income statement – – – – 2,759 – 2,759 
Total comprehensive income for the period – – (24,621) – (937) 1,182 (24,376)
Transactions with owners:        
Shares issued in connection with 
acquisition of a subsidiary 1,258 9,938 – – – – 11,196 
Interest charge on equity component  
of convertible loan notes – – – 46 – – 46 
Treasury shares issued – – (936) 936 – – – 
Employee share options – – – – 1,533 – 1,533 
Dividend paid to minority interest – – – – – (4,379) (4,379)
Movement in minority interest – – – – – 738 738 
Balance at 30 April 2010 13,269 95,576 (63,540) 1,031 8,544 5,024 59,904  Financial Statements continued 
Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity continued 
At 30 April 2010 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
48 
 
 
       Company 
 
Called-up
share capital
£’000 
Share 
premium 
account
£’000 
Retained 
earnings
£’000 
Equity 
reserves
£’000 
Other 
reserves 
£’000 
Minority 
interest 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Balance at 1 May 2008 2,970 49,737 9,724 – (1,418) – 61,013 
Loss for the period – – (2,862) – – – (2,862)
Other comprehensive income:        
Net revaluation of interest rate swap – – – – (2,175)  (2,175)
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – – 327 – 327 
Total comprehensive income for the period – – (2,862) – (1,848) – (4,710)
Shares issued for cash in exchange  
for options exercised 1 14 – – – – 15 
Shares issued in connection with  
acquisition of a subsidiary 29 203 – – – – 232 
Shares issued for cash  
(net of transaction fees) 9,011 35,684 – – – – 44,695 
Equity dividends paid – – (1,693) – – – (1,693)
Balance at 1 May 2009 12,011 85,638 5,169 – (3,266) – 99,552 
Profit for the period – – 21,906 – – – 21,906 
Other comprehensive income:        
Net revaluation of interest rate swap – – – – (23) – (23)
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – – 307 – 307 
Transfer from reserves to income statement – – – – 2,759  2,759 
Total comprehensive income for the period – – 21,906 – 3,043 – 24,949 
Shares issued in connection with  
acquisition of a subsidiary 1,258 9,938 – – – – 11,196 
At 30 April 2010 13,269 95,576 27,075 – (223) – 135,697 
 
   
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement 
Year ended 30 April 2010 
  www.dtz.com 
 
49
  Group  Company 
 Note 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Cash flows from operating activities       
Cash generated from/ (used in) operations A 14,725 (30,809)  (15,133) (30,264)
Dividends received  2,727 3,927  – – 
Interest received  647 2,716  27 22 
Interest paid  (4,143) (5,424)  (4,608) (3,654)
Income tax paid  (224) (6,058)  – – 
Net cash generated from/ (used in) operating activities  13,732 (35,648)  (19,714) (33,896)
Cash flows from investing activities       
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  507 200  – – 
Proceeds from investment  458 815  – – 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary  821 –  – – 
Income from other fixed asset investments  – 308  – – 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (2,133) (16,934)  – – 
Payment of deferred consideration  (2,151) (5,995)  – (1,417)
Purchase of investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments 
(net of cash and cash equivalents acquired)  (731) (977)  – – 
Net cash used in investing activities  (3,229) (22,583)  – (1,417)
Cash flows from financing activities       
Proceeds from issue of share capital  – 48,902  – 48,902 
Proceeds from borrowings  25,095 20,150  25,000 19,823 
Proceeds from lease incentive  – 11,545  – – 
Payment of transaction costs  (1,983) (5,233)  – (5,233)
Repayment of loans  (15,000) (15,000)  (15,000) (15,000)
Purchase of shares for Employee Benefit Trust  – (1,630)  – (1,630)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders  – (1,693)  – (1,693)
Dividends paid to minorities  (4,379) (2,396)  – – 
Net cash generated from financing activities  3,733 54,645  10,000 45,169 
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  14,236 (3,586)  (9,714) 9,856 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  37,765 42,773  9,997 141 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (1,354) (1,422)  – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year B 50,647 37,765  283 9,997 
  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Consolidated and Company  
Cash Flow Statement 
Year ended 30 April 2010 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
50 
A Cash generated from/ (used in) operations  Group  Company 
  
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
(Loss)/ profit for the year from continuing operations  (23,439) (86,906)  21,906 (2,862)
Adjustments for:       
Taxation  521 7,216  – – 
Depreciation and amortisation  7,623 8,371  – – 
Impairment charge  268 28,766  – – 
Disposal and closure of subsidiary undertakings  4,410 –  – – 
Share of profit in associated undertakings  (2,240) (2,536)  – – 
Income from other fixed asset investments  – (308)  – – 
Net finance expense  12,103 4,958  4,581 818 
Loss/ (profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment  11 (38)  – – 
Charge for share-based compensation  1,533 –  – – 
(Decrease)/ increase in provisions  (1,145) 9,494  – – 
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital  (355) (30,983)  26,487 (2,044)
Decrease in work in progress  1,977 1,319  – – 
(Increase)/ decrease in receivables  (1,729) 53,437  (72,402) (32,626)
Increase/ (decrease) in payables  14,832 (54,582)  30,782 4,406 
Cash generated from/ (used in) operations  14,725 (30,809)  (15,133) (30,264)
 
B Analysis of movement in net debt 
 
  
At 
1 May 
2009
£’000 
Cash-flows 
£’000  
Other 
non-cash 
changes 
£’000 
At 
30 April 
2010
£’000 
Analysis of movement in net debt       
Consolidated       
Cash and cash equivalents  37,765 14,236  (1,354) 50,647 
Bank loans and overdrafts within one year  (328) (95)  (18) (441)
Bank loans and overdrafts after one year  (88,247) (10,000)  567 (97,680)
  (50,810) 4,141  (805) (47,474)
       
Company       
Cash and cash equivalents  9,997 (9,714)  – 283 
Bank loans and overdrafts within one year  – –  – – 
Bank loans and overdrafts after one year  (88,247) (10,000)  567 (97,680)
  (78,250) (19,714)  567 (97,397)
   
Notes to the Financial Statements 
  www.dtz.com 
 
51
1. General information 
DTZ Holdings plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the registered office 
is 125 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 2BQ. DTZ Holdings plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) are one 
of the world’s leading real estate advisers, providing innovative real estate and business solutions. Further information regarding 
the nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in our Business Review on pages 4 to 23. 
These financial statements are presented in sterling as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group 
operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. 
2. Accounting policies 
2a. Adoption of new and revised standards 
Standards and amendments effective in 2010 
The Group adopted the following new and amended standards as of 1 May 2009: 
– IAS 1 (Revised), ‘Presentation of financial statements’  
The Group has presented both a consolidated statement of comprehensive loss and a consolidated statement of changes in equity  
as financial statements. The consolidated statement of comprehensive loss effectively replaces the current consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense. As a result, the Group presents in the consolidated statement of changes in equity all owner changes  
in equity, where as all non-owner changes in equity are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss.  
– IAS 23 (amendment), ‘Borrowing costs’ 
The amendment eliminates the option to expense all borrowing costs when incurred. This change has had no impact on these financial 
statements because the Group has no qualifying assets where borrowing costs need to be capitalised. 
– IFRS 2 (amendment), ‘Share-based payment: Vesting conditions and cancellations’ 
The amendments clarify the definition of vesting conditions for purposes of IFRS 2, introduce the concept of ‘non-vesting’ conditions  
and clarify the accounting treatment for cancellations. The amendment has been applied retrospectively in accordance with the relevant 
transitional provision. The amendment does not have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
– IFRS 7 (amendment), ‘Financial instruments – Disclosures’ 
The amendment contains further disclosure requirements to enhance the information available to investors about fair value measurement 
and liquidity risk associated with an entity’s financial instruments.  
– IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’ 
This standard requires a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for 
internal reporting purposes. There have been no changes to the contents of the segment information, as this is consistent with how 
management report information internally. 
– IFRS 1 and IAS 27, ‘Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate’. 
The amendment removes the concept of pre- and post- acquisition reserves from IFRS. The amendments did not have a material impact 
on the Group. 
– IFRS 1 and IAS 32, ‘Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation’ 
The amendments require some puttable financial instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata 
share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as equity. This change has had no effect on the Group. 
– IFRIC 12, ‘Service Concession Arrangements’ 
This interpretation gives guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements. The Group does 
not have any public-to-private service concession arrangements. 
– IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’ 
This interpretation clarifies three issues: 
1) how entities should determine the limit placed by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ on the amount of a surplus in a pension plan they can 
recognise as an asset; 
2) how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit; and 
3) when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition to that otherwise 
recognised under IAS 19. 
This amendment did not have a material impact on the Group. 
– IFRIC 16, ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’ 
This interpretation provides guidance on the nature of the hedged risk and the amount of the hedged item for which a hedging relationship  
may be designated, where in the Group a hedging instrument can be held and which amounts should be reclassified from equity to the income 
statement as reclassification adjustments on disposal of the foreign operation. This change did not have a material impact on the Group. 
– IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 (amendments), ‘Embedded Derivatives’ 
These amendments allow the reassessment of embedded derivatives on reclassification of financial instruments out of the fair value through 
the income statement category. These changes did not have a material impact on the Group.  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
52 
2. Accounting policies continued 
– IFRS 2008 (improvements) 
The improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS. These changes did not have a material 
impact on the Group. 
Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group 
The following standards and amendments to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 May 2010, 
and have not been early adopted: 
– IAS 27 (revised), ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ 
The revision specifies that changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the loss of control must be accounted 
for as equity transactions. The Group will adopt this for changes made after 1 May 2010. 
– IAS 39 (amendment), ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items’ 
The change clarifies how existing hedge accounting principles should be applied to the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item 
and to inflation in a hedged item. These changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
– IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business Combinations’ 
The main changes to the standard following the revision include the separate accounting of acquisition related costs, changes to business 
combinations achieved in stages and changes to the accounting for business combinations where less than 100% of the equity is acquired. 
These changes will be effective for acquisitions made after 1 May 2010. 
– IFRIC 17, ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’ 
This interpretation applies to non-cash dividends excluding those controlled by the same party before and after the transaction. It clarifies 
the recognition and measurement of non-cash dividend payable. This interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
– IFRS 2009 (improvements) 
The improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS. These changes are not expected 
to have a material impact on the Group. 
2b. Significant accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. The Group’s financial statements are also consistent with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The financial statements have been prepared  
on a going concern basis. This is discussed in the Directors’ Report on page 40, under the heading “Going concern”. 
Accounting convention 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of unlisted investments and financial 
instruments which are held at their fair value under IAS32 and IAS39. 
Basis of consolidation 
The financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture undertakings, together 
with the Group’s share of the results of its associates. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal. 
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Minority interests 
consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share of changes in equity since 
the date of the combination. Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated 
against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment 
to cover the losses. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those 
used by other members of the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 
Investments in associates 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control.   
  www.dtz.com 
 
53
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting. Under this 
method investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s 
share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the 
Group’s interest in that associate are not recognised. The Group’s share of profit, net of tax, is recognised in the income statement. 
Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in the relevant associate. 
Interests in joint ventures 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, 
that is when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing 
control. Joint ventures are accounted for using the proportional consolidation method. The Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenues and 
expenses of the joint venture are combined line by line with similar items in the Group’s financial statements. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue comprises commissions and fees receivable 
from agency and professional activities, exclusive of sales-related taxes and amounts due to third parties. 
Agency commissions are recognised either on the unconditional completion of a contract or when a fee is contractually due. Professional 
fees are recognised on an ongoing basis and on completion of the assignment. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially 
recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and 
is not reversed in a subsequent period. For impairment losses that are derived in a foreign currency, the impairment loss is calculated 
at the closing foreign currency exchange rate.  
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible fixed assets. Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value 
of the associate. 
For acquisitions that completed prior to 30 April 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves in the year in which it arose. Goodwill 
acquired from 1 May 1998 to 30 April 2004 was capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life. Goodwill arising on acquisitions 
before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP carrying value subject to being tested for impairment 
at that date. Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any profit 
or loss on disposal of the entity to which it relates. 
Intangible fixed assets 
Licences are classed as intangible fixed assets as per IAS38. As such they are measured initially on the balance sheet at the carrying value 
at the date of transition to IFRS. At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible fixed assets to determine 
whether there is any indication of an impairment loss. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are valued at fair value on acquisition and amortised over the useful life. 
Amortisation charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the period of the assets’ estimated useful lives using the following rates: 
• Brand 33% – 50% per annum 
• Customer relationships and contracts 33% – 50% per annum 
• Software 33% per annum  
Intangibles are reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and 
is not reversed in a subsequent period. For impairment losses that are derived in a foreign currency, the impairment loss is calculated 
at the closing foreign currency exchange rate.  
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any related impairment losses. 
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful lives, on a straight-line basis, 
using the following rates: 
• Leasehold improvements:  over term of lease 
• Furniture and equipment  10% to 33% per annum 
• Motor vehicles 20% to 25% per annum 
Provision is made for asset impairment if the asset’s recoverable amount (the higher of net realisable value and value in use) falls below 
its carrying value.  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
54 
2. Accounting policies continued 
Work in progress 
Work in progress is recognised in relation to professional activities over the duration of the assignment and is stated at the lower of cost, 
including attributable overheads, and net realisable value. No account is taken of work in progress relating to agency activities if the 
recovery of such costs is contingent upon the successful completion of the transaction and such completion had not occurred at 
the balance sheet date. 
Taxation 
The tax charge comprises current tax payable and deferred tax. The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable 
to tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits. 
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and 
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interest 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. Deferred 
tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. At each balance sheet date, monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Gains and 
losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are expressed 
in sterling using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the period. Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve. Such translation 
differences are released to the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are, after the date of transaction, treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. Transaction costs associated with refinancing bank 
borrowings are capitalised and amortised over the term of the borrowings. When a facility is renegotiated and subsequently qualifies as 
a new facility, previously capitalised costs are written off to the income statement at the point where the old facility is deemed to end. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest rate method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings 
is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for borrowing costs (see above). 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet at fair value when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance 
recognised is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash 
flows (with the exception of current trade receivables) discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.   
  www.dtz.com 
 
55
Investments – financial assets 
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially at cost including transaction costs. 
Investments are classified as either held-for-trading or available-for-sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value. 
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the 
period. For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the 
security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included  
in the net profit or loss for the period. Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss for equity investments classified as available-for-sale 
are not subsequently reversed through profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss for debt instruments classified as 
available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event  
occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
Retirement benefit obligations to employees are provided by three principal schemes, which are funded by contributions from certain 
Group companies and employees. Payments are made in accordance with periodic calculations by a professionally qualified actuary. 
Contributions to the defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense on a payable basis. 
For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is calculated by a professionally qualified actuary using the projected unit 
credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the statement 
of recognised income and expense. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represent the present value of the defined benefit obligations as adjusted 
for unrecognised past service cost, determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the rate of interest or a high quality 
corporate bond less the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the 
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. 
Capitalised pension liability 
Provision is made for the capitalised value of future pensions payable to certain former partners and widows of the Bernard Thorpe 
partnership. This is calculated in accordance with advice provided by Lane Clark & Peacock, professionally qualified actuaries, on bases 
appropriate as at the year-end date. In the event of a permanent diminution in the profits of the Group, the liability would substantially 
reduce. The deferred tax asset relating to this liability is recognised within non-current assets. Payments in respect of these pensions 
are charged to the provision. 
Leasing 
Assets held under finance leases and the related lease obligations are recorded in the balance sheet at the fair value of the leased assets 
at the inception of the leases. The excess of each lease payment over the recorded lease obligations is treated as a finance charge which 
is amortised over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance of the obligation. Rental costs under operating 
leases are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Share-based payments 
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS1, IFRS2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 
that had not vested as of 1 May 2006. 
The Group issues share option awards to certain employees and Senior Executives on a periodic basis under the Company Share Option 
Plan (‘COSOP’). The awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. 
The fair value of the share awards is determined using the Black-Scholes option valuation method. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation 
at the balance sheet date. 
Derivative financial instrument and hedge accounting 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures. The Group does not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provides written principles 
on the use of financial derivatives.   Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
56 
2. Accounting policies continued 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised 
directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment  
or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated 
gain or loss on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity is included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. 
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement 
in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement 
as they arise. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve. The gain or loss relating to 
the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised  
in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss is transferred to net profit or loss 
for the period. 
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements. These estimates, assumptions 
and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date as well as affecting 
the reported income and expenses for the year. Details of these estimates, assumptions and judgements are discussed below: 
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value-in-use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating 
unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates. 
Estimates used in this analysis are set out in note 13 to the financial statements. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as described in note 27 to the financial statements. The assets of the 
schemes are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date. Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit method, 
which takes account of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that 
will arise under the scheme liabilities. These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the 
same currency and term as the liabilities. Any surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an 
asset (surplus) or liability (deficit). In determining the value of scheme liabilities different assumptions could significantly alter the amount of 
the deficit recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income statement. The assumptions adopted for the Group’s 
pension schemes are set out in note 27 to the financial statements. 
Share based payments 
Recognition and measurement of share-based payments required estimation of the fair value of awards at the date of grant, and for cash-settled 
awards, re-measurement at each reporting date. Judgement is exercised when estimating the number of awards that will ultimately vest and 
these estimates have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the income statement and balance sheet. To assist in determining 
each award’s fair value, the Directors engage a qualified and independent valuation expert. Assumptions in relation to the number of awards 
that will ultimately vest is based on estimates at the reporting date of the extent to which performance conditions are anticipated to be satisfied, 
anticipated future lapses by leavers and the current intrinsic value of those awards. 
Income taxes 
As the Group operates across many income tax jurisdictions, judgement is required in determining the consolidated provision for income 
taxes. Deferred Tax Asset is calculated on a country basis. The profit/ (loss) of each country and the future profitability is considered 
when calculating the Deferred Tax Asset for the Group. 
Provisions 
The Group and its subsidiaries recognise a provision when there is a present (legal or constructive) obligation in respect of a past event. 
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts. 
Net accounts receivable 
The net accounts receivable amount includes an allowance for doubtful debts. The valuation of the allowance for doubtful debts reflects the 
Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s customers to make required payments. The allowance is based 
on the ageing of customer accounts, customer worthiness and the Group’s historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may 
be required if the financial condition of the Group’s customers improves or deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result 
in lower actual write-offs. Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.   
  www.dtz.com 
 
57
4. Segmental analysis 
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into four geographic divisions: UK & Ireland; Continental Europe, Middle East 
and Africa (‘CEMEA’); Asia Pacific and The Americas. These divisions are the Group’s reportable segments. During the current period EMEA, 
has been split into UK and Ireland and CEMEA, prior year numbers have been restated to reflect this change. In addition, the Group operates 
six service lines across the reportable segments. During the current period Capital Markets has been split into Investment Agency and 
Investment & Asset Management, prior year numbers have been restated on this basis. Profit/ (loss) before tax is the measure used for 
resource allocation and assessment of segment performance. 
In accordance with IAS 1 (revised) a restatement of historic numbers requires the effect of those changes to be presented through the 
disclosure of a third balance sheet. The Directors deem this to not be required as the restatement has no effect on the financial position  
of the consolidated Group. 
Year ended 30 April 2010 
 
UK &
Ireland
£’000 
CEMEA 
£’000 
Asia Pacific
£’000 
The  
Americas 
£’000 
Group 
Centre
£’000 
Consolidated
£’000 
Revenue       
External sales:       
Occupational & Development Markets 37,146 28,094 34,660 18,643 – 118,543 
Professional Services 50,681 26,221 16,810 – – 93,712 
Valuation 22,787 17,549 20,358 – – 60,694 
Investment Agency 16,919 6,970 20,977 1,715 – 46,581 
Investment & Asset Management 4,756 9,017 2 – – 13,775 
Consulting & Research 13,404 3,616 5,626 – – 22,646 
Total external sales 145,693 91,467 98,433 20,358 – 355,951 
Total revenue 145,693 91,467 98,433 20,358 – 355,951 
Result       
Operating profit/ (loss) before exceptional items 9,489 (6,081) 8,680 512 (6,068) 6,532 
Share of profits in associated undertakings (341) 2,581 – – – 2,240 
Total profit/ (loss) from operations including joint  
ventures and associated undertakings 9,148 (3,500) 8,680 512 (6,068) 8,772 
Income from other fixed asset investments 16 – – – – 16 
Net finance (expense)/ income (426) 181 31 (22) (4,939) (5,175)
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities before exceptional items 8,738 (3,319) 8,711 490 (11,007) 3,613 
Exceptional items (5,549) (10,068) (2,252) (1,004) (7,658) (26,531)
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 3,189 (13,387) 6,459 (514) (18,665) (22,918)
Taxation on profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities      (521)
Loss for the year from continuing operations      (23,439)
 
Other information       
Segment assets 116,681 84,580 99,983 12,016 – 313,260 
Investment in equity method associates 780 4,564 200 1 – 5,545 
Consolidated total assets      318,805 
Segment liabilities (179,238) (31,205) (40,428) (8,030) – (258,901)
Consolidated total liabilities      (258,901)
Capital additions 863 602 650 17 – 2,132 
Depreciation and amortisation (3,585) (1,344) (1,795) (899) – (7,623) Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
58 
4. Segmental analysis continued 
Year ended 30 April 2009 
 
UK &
Ireland
£’000 
CEMEA
£’000 
Asia Pacific
£’000 
The  
Americas 
£’000 
Group  
Centre 
£’000 
Consolidated
£’000 
Revenue       
External sales:       
Occupational & Development Markets 45,162 31,357 21,974 12,131 – 110,624 
Professional Services 53,089 24,412 16,924 – – 94,425 
Valuation 30,355 23,392 20,326 – – 74,073 
Investment Agency 10,571 8,887 13,859 5,550 – 38,867 
Investment & Asset Management 7,757 9,138 125 1,116 – 18,136 
Consulting & Research 15,782 5,992 6,173 – – 27,947 
Total external sales 162,716 103,178 79,381 18,797 – 364,072 
Total revenue 162,716 103,178 79,381 18,797 – 364,072 
Result       
Operating profit/ (loss) before exceptional items 9,866 (22,451) (7,150) (6,575) (6,673) (32,983)
Share of profits in associated undertakings (187) 2,723 – – – 2,536 
Total profit/ (loss) from operations including joint  
ventures and associated undertakings 9,679 (19,728) (7,150) (6,575) (6,673) (30,447)
Income from other fixed asset investments – 308 – – – 308 
Net finance (expense)/ income (5,192) 816 (216) (366) – (4,958)
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities before exceptional items 4,487 (18,604) (7,366) (6,941) (6,673) (35,097)
Exceptional items (7,406) (8,978) (1,789) (25,671) (749) (44,593)
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation (2,919) (27,582) (9,155) (32,612) (7,422) (79,690)
Taxation on profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities      (7,216)
Loss for the year from continuing operations      (86,906)
 
Other information       
Segment assets 131,215 88,538 80,484 9,746 – 309,983 
Investment in equity method associates 1,139 5,448 306 1 – 6,894 
Consolidated total assets      316,877 
Segment liabilities (175,776)(35,209)(25,714) (5,032) – (241,731)
Consolidated total liabilities      (241,731)
Capital additions 15,169 2,016 2,509 150  19,844 
Depreciation and amortisation (3,827) (1,546) (1,883) (1,115) – (8,371)  
  www.dtz.com 
 
59
5. Exceptional items 
The management consider the disclosure of the following items necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year. 
 
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Exceptional items relating to continuing operations:  
Restructuring costs (10,139) (12,050)
Staff costs (10,139) (12,050)
Impairments (268) (27,333)
Restructuring costs (4,785) (5,210)
Disposal of Russia and New Zealand (4,410) – 
Other operating costs (9,463) (32,543)
Total exceptional items before interest (19,602) (44,593)
Refinancing costs (6,929) – 
Finance expense (6,929) – 
Total exceptional items before taxation (26,531) (44,593)
Taxation – – 
 (26,531) (44,593)
Year ended 30 April 2010 
Restructuring costs 
Staff related restructuring costs represent the cost of staff redundancies paid or announced in the period. Restructuring costs included  
in other operating costs in the period relate to the recognition of onerous leases across the Group. Total restructuring costs for the period 
amounted to £14,924,000 (30 April 2009: £17,260,000). 
Refinancing costs 
During the period DTZ Holdings plc renegotiated its finance facility with RBS. Costs directly associated with the refinancing have been expensed, 
this amounted to £3,970,000, of which £2,500,000 was previously capitalised and £1,470,000 was incurred during the current period. 
In addition due to the termination and re-instatement of interest rate swaps £3,759,000 of costs have been incurred during the period, 
of this £2,759,000 has been transferred from the hedging reserve, and an additional £200,000 cost was embedded in the new derivatives. 
Year ended 30 April 2009 
Restructuring costs 
Restructuring costs of £12,050,000 were included in staff costs and represent the cost of staff redundancies paid or announced during the 
period. Restructuring costs included in other operating costs amounted to £5,210,000, represented by office closure costs of £3,761,000, 
and other restructuring costs of £1,449,000 which includes write off of goodwill in Austria and Portugal. 
Impairments 
In the prior period, a net impairment charge of £27,333,000 was recognised in respect of the Americas region in relation to goodwill 
and other assets, and the disposal in May 2009 of DTZ Rockwood for a nominal amount. 
6. Staff costs 
 
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Staff costs during the year:   
Wages, salaries and performance-related payments 222,872 242,800 
Social security costs 21,048 26,304 
Other pension costs 5,629 12,152 
Share-based payments 1,533 160 
 251,082 281,416 
During the year the Group employed an average of 4,921 staff (2009: 6,392) including Directors. Of this number, 4,246 (2009: 5,541) were involved 
in the professional side of the Group’s activities and 675 (2009: 851) were involved in central support functions. At 30 April 2010, the Group 
employed 4,637 staff (2009: 5,575).  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
60 
6. Staff costs continued 
Details of the Directors’ emoluments and share options required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Directors’ remuneration 
report, which forms part of these financial statements. 
Directors’ and key management compensation 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Key management:   
Remuneration 6,684 5,543 
Fees to Non-Executive Directors 244 243 
Post-employment benefits 61 234 
Share-based payments 1,069 14 
 8,058 6,034 
Key management are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity 
and include Executive and Non-Executive Directors, four members of the Executive Committee and one member of senior management 
(2009: Executive and Non-Executive Directors, five members of the Executive Committee and one member of senior management). 
7. Operating profit/ (loss) 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Operating profit/ (loss) is stated after charging/ (crediting)   
Loss/ (profit) on disposal of tangible fixed assets  11 (38)
Depreciation on tangible fixed assets:   
Owned assets  6,589 7,087 
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,034 1,284 
Rentals under operating leases:   
Land and buildings  19,121 24,385 
Others  7,189 4,113 
Net foreign exchange gain (3,837) (5,841)
   
Auditors’ remuneration 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
The analysis of the auditors’ remuneration is as follows:   
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 130 180 
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  506 486 
Total audit fees  636 666 
Other services pursuant to legislation  60 63 
Tax services  363 339 
Corporate Finance services  225 715 
Other services  36 40 
Total non-audit fees  624 1,094 
Total fees  1,320 1,823 
In July 2009, £225,000 was paid to Deloitte LLP for Corporate Finance services in relation to the renegotiation of the banking facilities. In the prior 
year, fees were paid for Corporate Finance services in relation to the Firm Placing and Placing and Open Offer (£514,000) and refinancing (£201,000). 
8. Net finance (expense)/ income 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Bank interest receivable 363 1,761 
Other interest receivable 284 955 
Total finance income 647 2,716 
Bank loans and overdrafts – interest payable (4,719) (6,303)
Refinancing costs (6,928) – 
Unwinding of discount on provisions (1,104) (1,371)
Total finance expense (12,751) (7,674)
Net finance expense (12,104) (4,958)  
  www.dtz.com 
 
61
9. Taxation on profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities 
 
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
UK corporation tax at 28% (2009: 28%) based on the loss for the year (1,295) (250)
Overseas taxation (4,236) (3,738)
Adjustment of prior years (425) 344 
Double taxation relief 1,295 230 
 (4,661) (3,414)
Deferred taxation – origination and reversal of timing differences 4,140 (3,802)
 (521) (7,216)
Factors affecting tax charge for the year 
The tax assessed for the period is higher than that resulting from applying the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2009: 28%). 
The differences are explained below: 
 
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
(Loss)/ profit on ordinary activities before taxation (22,918) (79,690)
Tax credit at 28% thereon: 6,417 22,313 
Effects of:   
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (3,203) (2,915)
Effect of impairment of charge not deductible  (6,464) (7,653)
Adjustment of prior years (425) 344 
Deferred tax asset not recognised on timing differences 909 (3,994)
Overseas tax rates 1,256 (152)
Deferred tax assets not recognised on movement in tax losses 989 (15,159)
Total tax charge for the year (521) (7,216)
 
 
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Deferred tax   
Movement on deferred tax balance in the period:   
Deferred tax asset   
At 1 May 2,893 7,112 
Charge to reserves – (476)
Charge/ (credit) to profit and loss account 4,140 (3,838)
Foreign exchange 320 95 
At 30 April 7,353 2,893 
Deferred tax liability   
At 1 May (73) (73)
At 30 April (73) (73)
   
Analysis of deferred tax balance:   
Short-term timing differences 1,469 634 
Overseas losses 5,884 2,259 
Deferred tax asset 7,353 2,893 
Revaluation reserve (73) (73)
Deferred tax liability (73) (73)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences and losses where it is probable that these assets will 
be recovered. 
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of timing differences relating to trading losses in overseas subsidiaries where 
there is insufficient evidence that the asset will be recovered. The amount of the asset not recognised is £11,550,000 (2009: £19,222,000). 
The asset will be recovered if sufficient suitable profits are made in the future against which the asset could reverse.  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
62 
10. Results of the parent Company 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss of the parent Company is not presented as part of these accounts. 
The parent Company’s profit for the financial year after taxation amounted to £21,906,000 (2009: loss of £2,862,000). 
11. Equity dividends 
 
2010
Per share 
2010 
£’000  
2009 
Per share 
2009
£’000 
Final dividend for year ended 30 April 2009 (30 April 2008) – –  3.00p 1,693 
Interim dividend for year ended 30 April 2010 (30 April 2009) – –  – – 
 – –  3.00p 1,693 
The Board is not proposing a dividend at 30 April 2010. 
12. Earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share 
The basic earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year. The diluted earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share is calculated by adjusting the weighted 
average number of shares to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. In 2009 the convertible unsecured loan notes 
and the share options were not considered dilutive.  
 
2010
Number 
2009
Number 
Average number of shares in issue 256,541,013 105,028,569 
Share options 2,230,168 – 
Diluted average number of shares in issue 258,771,181 105,028,569 
 
 
Earnings per 
share before 
exceptional  
items 
2010  
Loss  
per share  
2010  
Loss per  
share before  
exceptional   
items  
2009  
Loss 
per share 
2009  
Profit/ (loss) attributable to equity shareholders (£’000) 1,910  (24,621)  (42,731) (87,324)  
Basic earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share 0.74p (9.60)p (40.29)p (82.75)p
Diluted earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share 0.74p (9.60)p (40.29)p (82.75)p
13. Intangible assets 
 
Goodwill
£’000 
Brand
£’000 
Customer 
relationships 
and 
contracts
£’000 
Software 
£’000 
Licences 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Group       
At 1 May 2008 146,464 1,330 1,782 672 2,226 152,474 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 126 – – – – 126 
Impairment charge for the year (28,556) – – – – (28,556)
Amortisation charge for the year – (313) (661) (310) – (1,284)
Foreign exchange translation differences 16,447 149 164 – 383 17,143 
At 1 May 2009 134,481 1,166 1,285 362 2,609 139,903 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 531 – – – – 531 
Disposal of subsidiary (852) – – – – (852)
Impairment charge for the year (283) – – – – (283)
Amortisation charge for the year – (345) (379) (310) – (1,034)
Foreign exchange translation differences 432 146 161 – (105) 634 
At 30 April 2010 134,309 967 1,067 52 2,504 138,899 
For details relating to the current year acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries refer to note 17.   
  www.dtz.com 
 
63
Impairment testing 
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) according 
to the geographic region. A geography based summary of the allocation is presented below: 
 
 
 
Goodwill 
£’000 
Brand
£’000 
Customer 
relationships and 
contracts
£’000 
Software 
£’000 
Licences 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
30 April 2010       
UK and Ireland 56,721 – – 52 – 56,773 
CEMEA 30,876 – – – 2,504 33,380 
Asia Pacific 45,985 – – – – 45,985 
The Americas 727 967 1,067 – – 2,761 
Total intangible assets 134,309 967 1,067 52 2,504 138,899 
Methodology 
Goodwill is not amortised but the Group tests goodwill annually for impairment with the recoverable amount being determined from value  
in use calculations. Value in use is determined through the analysis of five year discounted cash flow forecasts based on financial forecasts 
approved by management which takes account of both past performance and expected future market developments with and a terminal 
value calculated using a long term growth rate of 1.5% (2009: 1.5%). Management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.05% (2009: 10.12%), 
equivalent to its weighted average cost of capital. This has been determined as reflecting current market assessments of the time value 
of money and risks specific to the industry and Company. 
Results 
Following impairment testing, no further impairment charge has been recognised in the Group as at 30 April 2010. During the period, £283,000 
has been recognised as an impairment charge in connection with the goodwill held in Russia, due to the operations being disposed. In addition, 
an impairment charge of £162,000 was recognised locally in our Australian operations against the net assets of an associate investment. 
14. Property, plant and equipment 
 
Leasehold 
Improvements
£’000 
Furniture and 
equipment 
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Group     
Cost:     
At 1 May 2008 13,862 31,809 1,504 47,175 
Additions 12,157 7,610 77 19,844 
Disposals (2,279) (3,429) (673) (6,381)
Impairment – (2,007) – (2,007)
Foreign exchange translation differences 912 2,896 110 3,918 
At 1 May 2009 24,652 36,879 1,018 62,549 
Additions 249 1,842 41 2,132 
Disposals (738) (4,426) (321) (5,485)
Foreign exchange translation differences 208 418 (12) 614 
At 30 April 2010 24,371 34,713 726 59,810 
Accumulated depreciation:     
At 1 May 2008  (8,714) (21,566) (755) (31,035)
Charge for year (2,507) (4,426) (154) (7,087)
Disposals 1,234 2,345 402 3,981 
Impairment – 666 – 666 
Foreign exchange translation differences  (586) (2,078) (93) (2,757)
At 1 May 2009 (10,573) (25,059) (600) (36,232)
Charge for year (2,660) (3,835) (94) (6,589)
Disposals 576 3,049 199 3,824 
Foreign exchange translation differences (150) (404) 9 (545)
At 30 April 2010 (12,807) (26,249) (486) (39,542)
 
Net book value:     
At 30 April 2010 11,564 8,464 240 20,268 
At 30 April 2009 14,079 11,820 418 26,317  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
64 
15. Investments in associates and subsidiary companies 
   Group  Company 
 
Share of
net assets of
associated
undertakings
£’000 
Goodwill on 
acquisition of 
associated 
undertakings 
£’000 
Total 
associated 
undertakings 
£’000  
Shares in
associates
and 
subsidiary
companies
£’000 
Cost:      
At 1 May 2008 5,088 562 5,650  15,905 
Additions 154 – 154  250 
Disposals (623) (31) (654)  – 
Foreign exchange translation differences 599 5 604  – 
At 1 May 2009 5,218 536 5,754  16,155 
Additions – – –  31,298 
Impairment (162) – (162)  – 
Disposals (458) – (458)  – 
Foreign exchange translation differences (90) 1 (89)  – 
At 30 April 2010 4,508 537 5,045  47,453 
 
Share of retained profits/ (losses) in associates:      
At 1 May 2008 1,635 – 1,635  – 
Movement in the year 2,536 – 2,536  – 
Transfer to subsidiaries (207) – (207)  – 
Dividend received (3,341) – (3,341)  – 
Foreign exchange translation differences 517 – 517  – 
At 1 May 2009 1,140 – 1,140  – 
Movement in the year 2,240 – 2,240  – 
Dividend received (2,726) – (2,726)  – 
Foreign exchange translation differences (154) – (154)  – 
At 30 April 2010 500 – 500  – 
 
Net book value:      
At 30 April 2010 5,008 537 5,545  47,453 
At 30 April 2009 6,358 536 6,894  16,155 
Details of principal subsidiaries and associated undertakings are given in note 28. 
Associates 
The following information is given in respect of the Group’s share of all associates. 
 
2010 
£’000  
2009
£’000 
Assets 16,220  17,538 
Liabilities (8,687)  (15,424)
Revenue 22,034  19,371 
Profit 2,240  2,536 
   
  www.dtz.com 
 
65
16. Other investments – financial assets 
   Group  Company 
 
Listed
investments
£’000 
Unlisted 
investments 
£’000 
Total
£’000  
Other
investments
£’000 
Cost:      
At 1 May 2008 1 536 537  1 
Additions – 622 622  – 
Impairment charge for the year – (232) (232) – 
Disposals (1) – (1) (1)
Foreign exchange translation differences – 3 3  – 
At 1 May 2009 – 929 929  – 
Impairment charge for the year – (76) (76) – 
Disposals – (427) (427) – 
Foreign exchange translation differences – (23) (23) – 
At 30 April 2010 – 403 403  – 
Investments are non-interest bearing. The Directors consider that the carrying values of all investments approximate their fair value. 
17. Acquisitions and disposals 
On 18 May 2009, the Board resolved to complete the disposal of the Group’s 50% interest in DTZ Rockwood LLP. The interest was sold 
to our joint venture partners for a nominal sum, and at the time of the transaction the net asset value of the investment was £nil. 
On 2 October 2009, the Group closed its operations in Russia which resulted in loss in the income statement of £3,157,000 representing 
the write off of net assets along with exit costs. 
On 31 October 2009, the Group disposed of certain assets and liabilities of its 100% owned interest in DTZ New Zealand (Holdings) Limited, 
which resulted in a loss on disposal of NZ$ 2,738,000 (£1,174,000) which includes the disposal of goodwill of NZ$ 1,802,000 (£852,000). 
On 27 November 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 20% minority interest in DTZ Sweden to bring our share holding to 100%. The Group 
paid SEK 8,371,000 (£731,000) for the remaining share holding which resulted in an additional SEK 5,887,000 (£531,000) in goodwill on acquisition. 
  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
66 
18. Trade and other receivables 
  Group   Company 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Non-current      
Other 35 43  – – 
Current      
Accounts receivable 80,245 75,567  – – 
Allowance for doubtful debts (7,926) (10,016)  – – 
Net accounts receivable 72,319 65,551  – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiaries – –  243,266 171,346 
Loans 718 810  – – 
Other debtors 4,523 10,593  – – 
Prepayments and accrued income 12,496 14,174  – – 
 90,056 91,128  243,266 171,346 
Accounts receivables 
Total accounts receivable (net of allowances) held by the Group at 30 April 2010 amounted to £72,319,000 (2009: £65,551,000). The Group 
has provided fully for all receivables over eight months because historical experience is such that receivables that are past due beyond eight 
months are generally not recoverable. Accounts receivable between one month and eight months are provided for based on estimated 
irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Up to 3 months 15,350 15,662 
3 to 6 months 6,044 6,004 
Over 6 months 2,988 4,395 
Total 24,382 26,061 
 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
At 31 May (10,016) (7,023)
Provision in the year (4,044) (5,399)
Amounts written off as uncollectible 2,200 990 
Amounts recovered during the year 3,794 2,534 
Foreign exchange translation differences 140 (1,118)
At 30 April (7,926) (10,016)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s accounts receivables are originated from the following geographic regions: 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
UK & Ireland 26,541 26,146 
CEMEA 19,814 23,390 
Asia Pacific 19,202 11,138 
The Americas 6,762 4,877 
 72,319 65,551 
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large, unrelated and internationally dispersed. Accordingly, the 
Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts. The current year decrease 
in the allowance for doubtful debts is a result of improved processes around debt collection and monitoring that have been initiated during 
the period. 
Ageing of impaired accounts receivables 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Up to 3 months (163) (159)
3 to 6 months (165) (300)
Over 6 months (7,598) (9,557)
Total (7,926) (10,016)
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.   
  www.dtz.com 
 
67
19. Trade and other payables 
  Group   Company 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Current      
Other loans 1,907 1,917  – – 
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – –  48,112 17 
Taxation and social security 13,528 12,070  – 14 
Trade creditors, accruals and deferred income 100,338 88,763  5,183 5,549 
 115,773 102,750  53,295 5,580 
Non-current      
Trade creditors, accruals and deferred income 16,893 14,493  3,430 3,219 
Amount payable to subsidiaries – –  900 900 
 16,893 14,493  4,330 4,119 
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing. The Directors consider that the carrying value of all financial liabilities approximates 
to their fair value. 
20. Provisions 
Current 
Deferred
consideration
£’000 
Accommodation
provision
£’000 
Restructuring 
provision 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Group     
At 1 May 2008 5,330 407 – 5,737 
Profit and loss charge – 250 7,610 7,860 
Transfer from creditors 487 – – 487 
Transfer from non-current provision 1,464 – – 1,464 
Utilised (4,796) – – (4,796)
Foreign currency translation differences (120) – – (120)
At 1 May 2009 2,365 657 7,610 10,632 
Profit and loss charge 95 (358) 11,128 10,865 
Reduction in provision (316) – – (316)
Transfer from non-current provision 1,209 1,796 – 3,005 
Utilised (1,724) (1,079) (14,227) (17,030)
Foreign currency translation differences 296 – (24) 272 
At 30 April 2010 1,925 1,016 4,487 7,428 
 
Company     
At 1 May 2008 1,417 – – 1,417 
Utilised (1,417) – – (1,417)
At 1 May 2009 – – – – 
At 30 April 2010 – – – – 
  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
68 
20.  Provisions continued 
Non-current  
Deferred
consideration
£’000 
Accommodation
provision
£’000 
Restructuring 
provision 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Group     
At 1 May 2008 3,213 239 – 3,452 
Profit and loss charge 202 2,909 – 3,111 
Transfer from creditors 243 – – 243 
Transfer to current provision (1,464) – – (1,464)
Utilised (1,204) – – (1,204)
Foreign currency translation differences 219 – – 219 
At 1 May 2009 1,209 3,148 – 4,357 
Profit and loss charge – 3,350 264 3,614 
Transfer to current provision (1,209) (1,796) – (3,005)
At 30 April 2010 – 4,702 264 4,966 
 
Company     
At 1 May 2009 – – – – 
At 30 April 2010 – – – – 
The opening deferred consideration balance relates to the prior year acquisitions of DTZ Barnicke, Donaldsons LLP, Harlow Property Consultants 
and Harlow Property Management.  
Accommodation provisions represent provisions for onerous leases, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 37 ‘Provisions, contingent 
liabilities and contingent assets’. 
Restructuring provisions represent the costs of restructuring that were announced prior to 30 April 2010. 
21. Bank loans and overdrafts 
 Group  Company 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Current      
Bank loans – –  – – 
Bank overdrafts 441 328  – – 
 441 328  – – 
Non-current      
Bank loans  97,680 88,247  97,680 88,247 
 97,680 88,247  97,680 88,247 
      
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 441 328  – – 
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 97,680 88,247  97,680 88,247 
 98,121 88,575  97,680 88,247 
During the year the other principal features of the Group’s borrowings were as follows: 
RBS facility 
On 21 July 2009, the Company entered into an amendment agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland to effect certain changes to the 
terms of the outstanding facilities at 30 April 2009. Under the agreement on 26 August 2009, the loan tranches denominated in US dollars 
and Canadian dollars were converted into sterling loans.   
  www.dtz.com 
 
69
The table below provides a comparison of the facilities as at 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009. 
Key terms 
Facilities  
as at  
30 April  
2010   
Facilities  
as at  
30 April  
2009  
Interest margin (pa):    
To 31 July 2011 1.75% 1.75%
1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 2.50% 1.75%
1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 3.00% 1.75%
1 August 2013 onwards 3.50% – 
 
Zero coupon tranche (£’000) 20,000
(1) 
 15,000  
Term loan – sterling tranche (£’000) 54,744   15,000  
Term loan – US dollar tranche (US$’000) –   35,000  
Term loan – HK dollar tranche (HK$’000) 152,502   152,502  
Term loan – Canadian dollar tranche (CA$’000) –   21,200  
Revolving credit facility (£’000) 15,000
(2)
 15,000  
Repayment terms (£’000):    
Within 1 year –   –  
1 – 2 years 5,000   5,000  
2 – 3 years 15,000   70,747  
3 – 4 years 17,500   –  
4 – 5 years 50,117   15,000  
After 5 years –   –  
(1)
 The zero coupon tranche was increased to £20,000,000 on 21 July 2009. It is further increased by £1 for each £1 drawn under the mezzanine facility between £10,000,000 
and £15,000,000 and the sterling interest loan or debt is reduced likewise. For example, if £15,000,000 is drawn under the mezzanine facility, then the zero coupon 
tranche will increase to £25,000,000 and the sterling debt will be reduced by an additional £5,000,000. 
(2)
 The revolving credit facility expires on 31 January 2012 and any amounts drawn down on this facility are repayable on that date. At 30 April 2010 and 2009 there were 
no amounts drawn on this facility.  
All facilities are secured on certain current and non-current assets of the Group. 
SGP facility 
On 21 July 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with SAS Saint George Participations (‘SGP’) for a mezzanine facility of up to 
£15,000,000. On 21 July 2009, £10,000,000 of this facility was drawn by the Company and £5,000,000 remains available to the Company 
on demand in tranches of no less than £500,000 up until 20 July 2012. The mezzanine loan is denominated in Euro. It attracts cash interest 
at EURIBOR +4.0% and a pay-in-kind (PIK) coupon of EURIBOR +7.0% which rolls up and is paid on redemption of the mezzanine loan on or 
before 20 July 2012. At the Company’s sole discretion, the mezzanine loan, plus unpaid interest, can be redeemed by issuing shares to SGP 
at 27.0 pence or the then share price, whichever is the lower. 
Weighted average interest 
The weighted average interest rates paid during the year were as follows: 
 
2010  
£’000   
2009  
£’000   
Bank overdrafts 2.37% 3.23%
Bank loans 4.50% 4.40%
Available committed bank facilities 
At 30 April 2010, the Group has available undrawn facilities of £15,000,000 (2009: £15,000,000) under the revolving credit facility, and 
£5,000,000 available under the SGP facility (2009: £nil), all other term loans are fully drawn. In addition, the Group has available local 
overdraft facilities of £513,000 (2009: £1,778,000). 
22. Financial instruments 
The Group manages its capital to ensure the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders 
through optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings 
disclosed in note 21, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves 
and retained earnings as disclosed in Consolidated and Company Statement of changes in equity. 
Significant accounting policies 
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and 
the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument 
are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
70 
22. Financial instruments continued 
Categories of financial instruments 
(1)
 Included within Trade and other payables. 
All the derivative instruments held by the Group (categorised as either FVTL or derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting 
relationships) are classified as Level 2 as defined in accordance with IFRS 7. 
Financial risk management objectives 
The Group has formal financial risk management policies which cover those financial risks which are considered material to the Group’s 
operations and results. These policies and limits are reviewed annually and to ensure compliance, appropriate delegated authorities have 
been set together with reporting procedures. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial 
instruments, for speculative purposes. 
Foreign currency risk management 
The Group publishes its results in sterling but has a number of overseas businesses operating in foreign currencies. The Group does not hedge  
the foreign exchange risks arising from the translation of overseas business results into sterling but will, within limits agreed by the Board, hedge 
against committed transaction foreign currency exposures and the translation exposure of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. 
The net amount of monetary assets and liabilities and the carrying value of financial liabilities at 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009 
denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operations involved were not significant. 
The net cash and cash equivalents disclosed on the consolidated statement of financial position is comprised of the following currencies: 
    April 2010     April 2009 
 
Cash  
and cash 
equivalents 
£’000 
Bank 
overdrafts 
£’000 
Bank loans 
£’000 
Net cash 
and cash 
equivalents 
£’000  
Cash 
and cash
equivalents
£’000 
Bank 
overdrafts 
£’000 
Bank loans 
£’000 
Net cash 
and cash 
equivalents 
£’000 
Euro 13,675 – (10,063) 3,612  11,944 – – 11,944 
Chinese Yuan 7,458 – – 7,458  3,916 – – 3,916 
Sterling 12,565 – (74,744) (62,179) 11,317 – (39,199) (27,882)
Hong Kong$ 911 – (12,873) (11,962) 943 – (13,369) (12,426)
Singapore$ 6,336 – – 6,336  5,749 – – 5,749 
US$ 216 – – 216  210 – (23,780) (23,570)
Canadian$ 1,106 – – 1,106  (493) – (11,899) (12,392)
Australian$ 1,756 – – 1,756  469 – – 469 
Others 6,624 (441) – 6,183  3,710 (328) – 3,382 
 50,647 (441) (97,680) (47,474) 37,765 (328) (88,247) (50,810)
At 30 April 2010, if the Euro had weakened/ strengthened by 10% against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for 
the year would have been £1,418,000 lower/ £1,734,000 higher (2009: £1,343,000 lower/ £1,642,000 higher). Net assets would have been 
£1,418,000 lower/ £1,734,000 higher (2009: £1,343,000 lower/ £1,642,000 higher). 
 Carrying value
 
2010 
£’000  
2009
£’000 
Financial assets    
Held-to-maturity investments    
Other investments – financial assets 403  929 
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)    
Trade and other receivables (non-current) 35  43 
Trade and other receivables (current) 90,056  91,128 
Cash and cash equivalents 50,647  37,765 
 140,738  128,936 
    
Financial liabilities    
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships    
US$ interest rate swap
(1)
 –  (1,073)
Sterling interest rate swap
(1)
 (3,430)  (2,136)
 (3,430)  (3,209)
Amortised cost   
Bank loans and overdrafts (current) (441)  (328)
Bank loans and overdrafts (non-current) (97,680)  (88,247)
 (98,121)  (88,575)  
  www.dtz.com 
 
71
At 30 April 2010, if the Singapore $ had weakened/ strengthened by 10% against sterling with all other variables held constant post-tax 
profit for the year would have been £330,000 lower/ £404,000 higher (2009: £177,000 lower/ £216,000 higher). Net assets would have  
been £330,000 lower/ £404,000 higher (2009: £177,000 lower/ £216,000 higher). 
Interest rate risk management 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. The risk is 
managed by the Group maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap 
contracts. The Group’s guideline is that no more than 50% of net interest rate exposures on debt (net of any working capital balances) 
should be at floating rates.  
If interest rates had been 1% higher/ lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 30 April 2010 
would decrease/ increase by £517,000 (2009: decrease/ increase by £519,000).  
The Group’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note. 
Interest rate swap contracts 
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated 
on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of 
issued fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate held.  
The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swap is 3 month LIBOR. The Group will settle 
the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis. All interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest 
amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting 
from variable interest rates on borrowings. The Group has the following interest rate swap contracts outstanding: 
   30 April 2010    30 April 2009 
Sterling interest rate swap 
Nominal 
amount 
Estimated 
liability Maturity Date  
Nominal 
amount 
Estimated 
liability Maturity Date 
Amortising interest rate swap (£’000) 21,000 1,572 20 May 2013 27,000 2,136 1 May 2013 
Adjusting interest rate swap (£’000) 5,000 1,858 31 July 2014 – – – 
US dollar interest rate swap       
Interest rate swap (US$’000) – – – 17,500 1,579 9 May 2011 
During the year the US$17,500,000 interest rate swap was closed out and modified to become a £5,000,000 sterling denominated adjusting 
interest rate swap with an extended maturity date. Due to these changes the original hedge was deemed to be ineffective and £900,000 
was released from the hedging reserve to the income statement, in addition costs of £200,000 were embedded into the new swap.  
During the year, the £27,000,000 amortising interest rate swap was also modified by extending the maturity date, and changing the interest 
roll date during the month. Due to these changes the original hedge was deemed to be ineffective and £1,858,000 was released from the 
hedging reserve to the income statement. 
From 18 August 2009, the two new interest rate swaps have been designated and deemed 100% effective as cash flow hedges allowing 
their fair value to be deferred in equity. At 30 April 2010, the fair value charge deferred in equity for the interest rate swap was £472,000 
(2009: £2,175,000). 
Credit risk management 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The Group’s credit risk 
is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. 
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event, which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows. 
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings 
assigned by international credit rating agencies. 
Liquidity risk management 
The Group maintains a debt to capital ratio that has flexibility to allow it to meet its strategic objectives. In addition, policies have been 
set on borrowing levels to net cash requirements and covenants of financing sources to be used. The Group’s requirements are reviewed 
annually or more often if the need arises. Included in note 21 is a description of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal 
to further reduce liquidity risk.  
   30 April 2010    30 April 2009 
 
Less than  
1 year 
£’000 
Between 1 
and 2 years
£’000 
Between 2 
and 5 years
£’000 
Over 
5 years
£’000 
 
Less than 
1 year
£’000 
Between 1 
and 2 years 
£’000 
Between 2 
and 5 years
£’000 
Over 
5 years
£’000 
Bank loans and overdrafts (441) (5,000) (92,680) –  (328) (5,000) (83,247) – 
Trade and other payables (115,773) (971) (6,701) (9,221) (102,750) (971) (2,652) (10,869)
 (116,214) (5,971) (99,381) (9,221) (103,078) (5,971) (85,899) (10,869) Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
72 
23. Convertible loan notes 
The convertible loan notes were issued in connection with the acquisition of Donaldsons LLP on 10 July 2007 at an issue price of £5.44 per 
note. The liability component was converted on 12 May 2009. 
The net proceeds received from issue of the convertible loan notes have been allocated between the liability element and an equity component, 
representing the fair value of the option to cover the liability into equity of the Group as follows: 
 £’000 
Proceeds of issue of convertible loan notes  
Equity component:  
At 30 April 2009 985 
Interest charged 46 
Equity component at 30 April 2010 1,031 
Liability component:  
At 30 April 2009 10,914 
Interest charged – 
Liability converted into shares (10,914)
Liability component at 30 April 2010 – 
The equity component of £1,031,000 has been credited to the equity reserve. 
24. Called-up share capital 
 Number £’000 
Authorised ordinary shares of 5 pence   
30 April 2009  390,000,000 19,500 
30 April 2010 390,000,000 19,500 
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 5 pence:   
At 1 May 2008 59,409,528 2,970 
Shares issued for cash in exchange for options exercised 15,000 1 
Shares issued in connection with acquisition of a subsidiary 592,227 29 
Shares issued for cash 180,202,215 9,011 
At 1 May 2009 240,218,970 12,011 
Shares issued in connection with acquisition of a subsidiary 25,158,110 1,258 
At 30 April 2010 265,377,080 13,269 
Total market value for the shares issued in exchange for options exercised was £nil (2009: £15,000). Total market value for shares issued 
in connection with the acquisition of a subsidiary was £11,795,000 (2009: £232,000).  
The non-voting B shares were converted to 7,283,957 ordinary shares on 16 December 2009.  
The non-voting B shares carried the same rights as the ordinary shares (including as to dividends) save that the non-voting B shares were 
not be entitled to vote at any shareholder general meeting. The non-voting B shares were convertible with the agreement of the majority of the 
Board or if it was required to maintain the SAS Saint George Participations (‘SGP’) investors aggregate holding at 50.01% on a fully diluted basis. 
 
Number 2010 2009
Ordinary shares of 5 pence each 265,377,080 232,935,013 
Non-voting convertible B shares of 5 pence each – 7,283,957 
Total shares 265,377,080 240,218,970   
  www.dtz.com 
 
73
The DTZ Holdings plc 1997 Company Share Option Plan (‘the 1997 COSOP’) 
The purpose of the 1997 COSOP is to give certain senior employees of the Group the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company on 
favourable terms. Under the 1997 COSOP, options over ordinary shares outstanding as at 30 April 2010 were 507,611 (2009: 643,724). 
 Option period 
Exercise 
price  
Number
of shares
30 April
2010 
Number 
of shares 
30 April 
2009 
30 June 1999 30 June 2002 to 29 June 2009 126.5p  – 10,000 
6 July 2000 6 July 2003 to 5 July 2010 161.5p  15,000 20,000 
31 July 2000 31 July 2003 to 30 July 2010 158.0p  10,000 10,000 
13 July 2001 13 July 2004 to 12 July 2011 162.5p  10,000 10,000 
18 July 2002 18 July 2006 to 17 July 2012 108.5p  15,000 15,000 
11 July 2003 11 July 2007 to 10 July 2013 89.5p  15,000 25,000 
23 January 2004 23 January 2007 to 22 January 2014 135.0p  6,125 6,125 
16 July 2004 16 July 2007 to 15 July 2014 165.5p  65,000 106,252 
16 July 2004 16 July 2007 to 15 July 2011 165.5p  – 1,874 
26 January 2005 26 January 2008 to 25 January 2015 214.5p  13,986 13,986 
7 July 2005 7 July 2008 to 6 July 2015 229.5p  224,355 261,054 
7 July 2005 7 July 2008 to 6 July 2012 229.5p  48,145 53,946 
19 January 2006 19 January 2009 to 18 January 2016 468.0p  – 6,410 
19 January 2006 19 January 2009 to 18 January 2013 468.0p  40,000 45,000 
18 July 2006 18 July 2009 to 17 July 2016 650.0p  43,378 57,455 
18 July 2006 18 July 2009 to 17 July 2013 650.0p  1,622 1,622 
    507,611 643,724 
Reconciliation of option movements over the year to 30 April 2010 is shown below: 
 2010  2009 
 
Number
of shares 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price  
Number
of shares 
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
Outstanding at 1 May 643,724 261.0  719,724 256.4 
Forfeited/expired (136,113) 242.8  (76,000) 217.2 
Exercised – –  – – 
Outstanding at 30 April 507,611 263.4  643,724 261.0 
Exercisable at 30 April 507,611   218,237  
The exercise of share options under the 1997 COSOP is subject to earnings per share performance targets. 
Fair value of options at grant dates were: 
Grant date Fair value (p) 
11 July 2003  14.7 
23 January 2004  29.6 
16 July 2004  39.1 
26 January 2005  52.2 
7 July 2005  52.1 
19 January 2006  134.0 
18 July 2006  197.6 
Following the AGM on 7 September 2006, the above scheme was replaced by the DTZ Holdings plc 2006 Company Share Option Plan 
and no further options will be granted under the 1997 COSOP.  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
74 
24. Called-up share capital continued  
The DTZ Holdings plc 2006 Company Share Option Plan (‘the 2006 COSOP’) 
The purpose of the 2006 COSOP is to give certain senior employees of the Group the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company on 
favourable terms. Under the 2006 COSOP, options over ordinary shares outstanding as at 30 April 2010 are 4,877,691 (2009: 2,369,415). 
 Option period 
Exercise 
price  
Number 
of shares 
30 April 
2010 
Number 
of shares 
30 April 
2009 
22 January 2007 22 July 2010 to 21 July 2017 725.0p  – 2,758 
30 January 2007 30 July 2010 to 29 July 2017 690.5p  42,525 47,250 
5 July 2007 5 January 2010 to 4 January 2017 522.5p  16,000 25,827 
11 October 2007 11 April 2010 to 10 October 2017 445.8p  – 6,730 
4 January 2008 4 January 2011 to 3 January 2018 235.0p  65,000 140,000 
10 July 2008 10 July 2011 to 9 July 2018 163.0p  190,000 295,000 
16 January 2009 16 January 2012 to 15 January 2019 27.0p  1,851,850 1,851,850 
23 July 2009 23 July 2012 to 22 July 2022 44.0p  2,613,634 – 
15 January 2010 15 January 2013 to 14 January 2023 76.0p  98,682 – 
    4,877,691 2,369,415 
Reconciliation of option movements over the year to 30 April 2010 is shown below: 
 2010  2009 
 
Number
of shares 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
 price  
Number 
of shares 
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
Outstanding at 1 May 2,369,415 76.9  86,565 614.6 
Forfeited/expired (204,040) 235.9  (9,000) 322.8 
Granted 2,712,316 45.2  2,291,850 173.9 
Outstanding at 30 April 4,877,691 52.6  2,369,415 76.9 
Exercisable at 30 April – –  – – 
The exercise of share options under the 2006 COSOP is subject to earnings per share performance targets. 
Fair value of options at grant dates are: 
Grant date Fair value (p) 
22 January 2007 226.5 
30 January 2007 215.1 
5 July 2007 170.1 
11 October 2007 133.3 
4 January 2008 50.8 
10 July 2008 44.9 
16 January 2009 9.1 
23 July 2009 24.3 
15 January 2010 42.9 
Fair value of options 
Options for the 1997 COSOP and 2006 COSOP were valued at fair value using the Black-Scholes model. 
The key assumptions used in the calculations were as follows: 
• Risk-free rate: 3.4% – 5.2% pa depending on grant date and expected life 
• Volatility: 29.6% – 54.0% pa depending on grant date 
• Performance criteria: All vest after three years 
• The expected volatility is based on historical volatility   
  www.dtz.com 
 
75
The DTZ Holdings plc 2006 Co-investment and Long Term Incentive Plans 
Full details of the Co-investment Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 30 to 38. 
The Co-investment Plan is available to a Group of approximately nil (2009: one) Senior Executives including the Executive Directors. 
The maximum number of shares awarded in 2010 is nil (2009: 6,135) and no shares have vested. The fair value of the shares under the 
plan is based on the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at the date of the award. Awards made under this Co-investment Plan  
are classified as equity settled. The expense recognised in respect of these awards was £nil (2009: £1,000). 
During the year, one (2009: five) Senior Executive (including the Executive Directors) were granted a conditional award of shares under 
the Long Term Incentive Plan. The number of shares awarded in respect of 2010 was 200,000 (2009: 210,000). The fair value of the shares 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan is based on the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at the date of the award. All performance 
criteria are expected to be met. Awards made under this Scheme are classified as equity settled. The expense recognised in respect of 
these awards was £23,000 (2009: £34,000). 
25. Financial commitments 
  Group   Company 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Capital commitments contracted for but not provided in the financial statements 103 1,086  – – 
The Company, together with other companies within the Group, has given guarantees to the Group’s bankers in respect of amounts 
advanced to the Group under its banking facilities. No losses are expected to arise with respect to these guarantees. 
26. Operating lease commitments 
 2010  2009 
 
Land and 
buildings
£’000 
Other 
£’000  
Land and
buildings
£’000 
Other
£’000 
Non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows:      
Within one year 19,887 6,018  21,844 7,108 
Within two to five years 50,219 6,196  51,370 8,127 
After five years 74,959 –  82,767 198 
Operating lease commitments for land and buildings represent the Group’s total lease liability to the end of each of the leases. Whilst a 
number of the leases contain several break clauses, it is not the Group’s current intention to exercise these clauses, and therefore the full 
cost, before minority interests, has been disclosed. 
27. Retirement benefit obligations 
Within the UK the Group operates two occupational pension schemes, one of which (the DTZ 2002 Retirement Plan) provides benefits 
based on final pensionable salary and is closed to new entrants, and the second being a defined contribution scheme. In addition the 
Group operates a personal pension plan open to employees not covered by the other two schemes. The assets of all the pension schemes 
are held separately from those of the Group. Provision is also made for the capitalised value of future pensions payable to certain former 
partners and surviving spouses of the Bernard Thorpe partnership (‘Bernard Thorpe Annuitants’). 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. The Group has adopted the revised version of IAS19 
(Employee Benefits) published in December 2004. As permitted by the revised standard, actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside 
profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense. The liability recognised in the balance sheet represents 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of assets. The cost of providing benefits is determined using 
the projected unit credit method. 
DTZ 2002 Retirement Plan (‘2002 Plan’) 
The results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 30 April 2008 were updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary 
in accordance with the IAS19. As required by IAS19, the value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost has been measured 
using the projected unit credit method. 
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ended 30 April 2010 was 6.4% pa (2009: 6.5% pa). This rate is derived by taking 
the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the 2002 Plan was invested in at 30 April 2009. 
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the 2002 Plan during 2011 is £1,050,000 (2010 actual: £1,000,000).  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
76 
27.  Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used: 
Assumptions 
30 April
2010 
30 April
2009 
30 April 
2008 
30 April 
2007 
30 April 
2006 
Retail price inflation 3.6% pa 3.3% pa 3.6% pa 3.0% pa 3.0% pa 
Discount rate 5.5% pa 6.7% pa 6.2% pa 5.5% pa 5.2% pa 
Pension increases in payment:      
5% or inflation 3.5% pa 3.2% pa 3.5% pa 3.0% pa 3.0% pa 
2.5% or inflation 2.3% pa 2.3% pa 2.3% pa 2.2% pa 2.2% pa 
General salary increases n/a 3.3% pa 3.6% pa 3.0% pa 3.0% pa 
Life expectancy of male aged 60 at balance sheet date 27.3 yrs 27.1 yrs 26.8 yrs 26.7 yrs 26.6 yrs 
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of the 2002 Plan is as follows: 
 2002 Plan 
 
30 April
2010
£’000 
30 April
2009
£’000 
30 April 
2008 
£’000 
30 April 
2007 
£’000 
30 April 
2006
£’000 
Present value of defined benefit obligation 56,500 43,100 47,900 47,800 49,400 
Fair value of assets (48,800) (39,200) (46,800) (46,100) (43,500)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet 7,700 3,900 1,100 1,700 5,900 
In addition the amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of the capitalised value of future pensions 
payable to the Bernard Thorpe Annuitants is as follows: 
 Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
 
30 April
2010
£’000 
30 April
2009
£’000 
30 April 
2008 
£’000 
30 April 
2007 
£’000 
30 April 
2006
£’000 
Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,500 2,100 2,500 2,800 3,100 
Fair value of assets – – – – – 
Liability recognised in the balance sheet 2,500 2,100 2,500 2,800 3,100 
The amounts recognised within finance income in the profit and loss are as follows: 
 2002 Plan  Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Employer’s part of current service cost 100 300  – – 
Curtailment loss 100 –  – – 
Interest cost 2,800 2,900  100 100 
Expected return on assets (2,500) (3,000)  – – 
Total expense included in profit and loss 500 200  100 100 
A reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 
 2002 Plan  Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Opening defined benefit obligation 43,100 47,900  2,100 2,400 
Employer’s part of current service cost 100 300  – – 
Interest cost 2,800 2,900  100 100 
Contributions from members – 100  – – 
Actuarial loss/ (gains) 12,000 (6,500)  500 (200)
Benefits paid (1,600) (1,600)  (200) (200)
Curtailment loss 100 –  – – 
Closing defined benefit obligation 56,500 43,100  2,500 2,100 
   
  www.dtz.com 
 
77
A reconciliation of the fair value of the assets is as follows: 
 2002 Plan  Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
 
2010
£’000 
2009 
£’000  
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000 
Opening fair value of the assets 39,200 46,800  – – 
Expected return on assets 2,500 3,000  – – 
Actuarial gains/ (losses) 7,700 (9,900)  – – 
Contributions by the employer 1,000 800  – – 
Contributions by members – 100  – – 
Benefits paid (1,600) (1,600)  – – 
Closing fair value of assets 48,800 39,200  – – 
The actual return on the 2002 Plan’s assets over the year was a gain of £10,200,000 (2009: loss of £6,900,000). 
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in other comprehensive income for the 2002 Plan is a loss of £4,300,000 (2009: loss of £3,400,000). 
This is the sum of actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit obligation and the assets. The figure for the Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
is a loss of £500,000 (2009: gain of £200,000). 
The allocation of the 2002 Plan’s assets is as follows: 
 
30 April  
2010   
30 April  
2009   
30 April   
2008   
30 April  
2007   
30 April   
2006   
Equity instruments 34% 31% 41% 53% 59%
Debt, cash and other instruments 66% 69% 59% 47% 41%
 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
 
 2002 Plan 
 
30 April
2010
£’000 
30 April
2009
£’000 
30 April 
2008 
£’000 
30 April
2007
£’000 
30 April 
2006 
£’000 
Present value of defined benefit obligation 56,500 43,100 47,900 47,800 49,400 
Fair value of assets (48,800) (39,200) (46,800) (46,100) (43,500)
Deficit 7,700 3,900 1,100 1,700 5,900 
 
 
 Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
 
30 April
2010
£’000 
30 April 
2009 
£’000 
30 April 
2008 
£’000 
30 April
2007
£’000 
30 April
2006
£’000 
Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,500 2,100 2,500 2,800 3,100 
Fair value of assets – – – – – 
Deficit 2,500 2,100 2,500 2,800 3,100 
 
 2002 Plan  Bernard Thorpe Annuitants 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009  
£’000  
2008 
£’000  
2007
£’000 
2006
£’000  
2010 
£’000  
2009 
£’000 
2008 
£’000 
2007
£’000 
2006
£’000 
Experience adjustments  
on assets:            
Amount of (gain)/ loss (7,700) 9,900  1,800  (600) (5,700) –  – – – – 
Percentage of assets (16%) 25% 4% (1%) (13%) –  – – – – 
Experience adjustments  
on liabilities:           
Amount of (gain)/ loss – (1,100) – – –  100  (100) (300) (200) – 
Percentage of the present 
value of the liabilities 
– (3%) – – –  4% (5%) (13%) (7%) – 
In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS19 in December 2004, the disclosures above are determined 
prospectively from the 2005 reporting period. 
In addition to the UK defined benefit scheme, the Group makes defined contributions to both UK and overseas company and statutory 
pension schemes. Total pension contributions to defined contribution schemes were £5,428,000 (2009: £12,035,000).  Financial Statements continued 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 
 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
78 
28. Additional information on principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings 
 Nature of business 
Equity held %   
(ordinary shares)   
Principal countries
of operation 
Principal subsidiaries    
Incorporated in Great Britain    
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited  Property advisers 100*  UK 
DTZ International Limited  Holding company 100*  Global 
DTZ Corporate Finance Limited  Property advisers 100*  UK 
DTZ Management Services Limited Property advisers 100*  UK 
DTZ Insurance Services Limited Property advisers 100*  UK 
DTZ Investment Management Limited Property advisers 100*  UK 
Incorporated in France    
Financiere DTZ Jean Thouard SA  Property advisers 100   France 
Asset Management France SA Property advisers 100   France 
DTZ Eurexi SA Property advisers 84.84   France 
Asset Management Europe SAS Property advisers 79.98   France 
DTZ Interface IDF Sud Quest SARL Property advisers 69.80   France 
Incorporated in Germany    
DTZ Deutschland Holding GmbH  Property advisers 100   Germany 
Incorporated in The Netherlands    
DTZ Central and Eastern Europe BV  Property advisers 100    Eastern Europe 
Fronton BV  Property advisers 100   The Netherlands 
Zadelhoff Participaties BV  Property advisers 70   The Netherlands 
Incorporated in Italy    
DTZ Italia Spa  Property advisers 100   Italy 
Incorporated in Belgium    
DTZ Belux Group SA  Property advisers 100   Belgium and Luxembourg 
Incorporated in Spain    
DTZ Iberica Asesores Immobiliarios 
Internacionales SA  Property advisers 100   Spain 
Incorporated in Australia    
DTZ Australia Pty Limited  Property advisers 100   Australia 
Incorporated in the British Virgin Islands    
DTZ Pacific Holdings Limited  Holding company 100   Hong Kong and China 
DTZ Japan Limited Property advisers 70   Japan 
EuroAsia Properties Limited  Property advisers 70   Japan 
Incorporated in Singapore    
Edmund Tie & Company Holdings Pte Ltd  Holding company 51** Singapore 
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung SEA Pte Ltd Property advisers 51** Singapore 
Incorporated in India    
DTZ International Property Advisers Private 
Limited  Property advisers 100   India 
Incorporated in Thailand    
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung (Thailand) Co Ltd Property advisers 51** Thailand 
Incorporated in China    
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Property 
Management (Beijing) Limited Property advisers 98.21   China 
Incorporated in USA    
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Inc  Property advisers 100   USA 
Incorporated in Bahrain    
DTZ Bahrain WLL  Property advisers 100   Bahrain   
  www.dtz.com 
 
79
 
 Nature of business 
Equity held %     
(ordinary shares)     
Principal countries
of operation 
Principal subsidiaries continued    
Incorporated in Hong Kong    
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited  Property advisers 100    Hong Kong 
Incorporated in Canada    
DTZ Barnicke Limited Property advisers 100    Canada 
DTZ Barnicke Quebec Ltee Property advisers 100    Canada 
Incorporated in Sweden    
DTZ Sweden AB  Property advisers 100    Sweden 
Joint Ventures    
Incorporated in Great Britain    
Buying Force Limited  Service procurement 50**  UK 
Associated undertakings    
Incorporated in the Republic of Ireland    
DTZ Sherry FitzGerald Limited  Property advisers 20**  Republic of Ireland 
Incorporated in Australia    
DTZ Australia (WA) Pty Limited  Property advisers 20*** Australia 
DTZ Australia (Gold Coast) Pty Limited  Property advisers 25*** Australia 
Incorporated in Qatar    
DTZ Qatar WLL  Property advisers 40    Qatar 
* Owned by parent. 
** Year end 31 December. 
*** Year end 30 June. 
The above information includes the principal subsidiaries of the Group. All the UK Group subsidiaries will submit annual returns to the 
Registrar of Companies as required by the Companies Act 2006. 
29. Related party transactions 
The Group provided advisory services for total fees of £2,608,000 (30 April 2009: £497,000) and made payments for service provided 
of £104,000 (30 April 2009: £36,000) to/ from companies connected to Non-Executive Directors of DTZ Holdings plc. 
In the prior year two subsidiary companies leased an office at an annual rent of £120,000 from a company controlled by a Director of the 
subsidiary company. 
A subsidiary company pays an annual software user licence fee of £38,000 (30 April 2009: £41,000), on an arm’s length basis, to a company 
controlled and owned by two of the Directors of the subsidiary company. 
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had outstanding loans to certain joint venture and associated companies in the sum of £138,000 (30 April 2009: 
£3,683,000). All of these loans are on commercial terms. 
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had an outstanding loan of £1,132,000 (30 April 2009: £nil) with a company connected to Non-Executive 
Directors of DTZ Holdings plc. This loan is on commercial terms. 
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had £10,063,000 of loans payable to our largest shareholder SGP (30 April 2009: £nil). This loan is described 
in note 21. Interest in connection to this loan amounted to £341,000 (30 April 2009: £nil), and a further £13,000 was paid during the period 
as a management fee (30 April 2009: £nil). 
A subsidiary company leases a residential building for £58,000 (30 April 2009: £nil) from a company controlled by a Director of the 
subsidiary company.  
30. Share price 
The mid-market price of the shares at 1 May 2009 and 30 April 2010 was 44.5 pence and 70.0 pence respectively. The share price during 
the year ranged from 40.0 pence to 115.0 pence. 
31. Subsequent events 
On 13 July 2010, the Group announced its intention to purchase the remaining 20 per cent of Asset Management Europe SAS (‘AME’) 
which it does not already own. The Group already has control of AME. Asset Management is a key business for DTZ and an area that 
has been highlighted as a growth priority by the Board. If the proposed acquisition is approved by DTZ’s shareholders, AME will become 
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group. 
   
Five Year Record 
Years ended 30 April 
80 DTZ Holdings plc  
 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 
The additional information consisting of the five year record, the shareholder analysis and financial calendar has been prepared from the 
accounting records of the Company. Whilst it does not form part of the statutory financial statements, it should be read in conjunction with 
them and the responsibilities section of the Auditors’ Report thereon. 
 
2006
£’000 
2007
£’000 
2008 
£’000 
2009 
£’000 
2010 
£’000  
Revenue 232,369 310,262 446,309 364,072 355,951  
Operating profit/ (loss) before exceptional items 23,184 32,151 16,395 (32,983) 6,532  
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities before taxation and exceptional items 29,661 37,961 20,613 (35,097) 3,613  
Exceptional items – 3,834 (15,052) (44,593) (26,531) 
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 29,661 41,795 5,561 (79,690) (22,918) 
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 20,201 28,735 (274) (86,906) (23,439) 
Basic earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share 37.87p 49.38p (7.65)p (82.75)p (9.60)p
Basic earnings/ (loss) per ordinary share before exceptional items 37.87p 44.35p 17.56p (40.29)p 0.74p
Dividends per ordinary share (net):      
Interim 2.75p 3.50p 3.50p – –  
Final 7.00p 8.00p 3.00p – –  
Year end share price 643.0p 596.0p 215.0p 43.5p 70.0p
Total assets 178,635 287,875 386,753 316,877 318,805 
Net assets 65,542 112,109 117,579 75,146 59,904 
Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation before 
exceptional items (‘adjusted EBITDA’) 31,951 41,775 30,204 (21,768) 16,411 
Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and 
amortisation (‘EBITDA’) 31,951 45,609 15,152 (66,361) (3,191) 
Net cash/ (debt) 30,357 23,997 (33,693) (50,810) (47,474) 
Analysis of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. 
 
2006
£’000 
2007
£’000 
2008 
£’000 
2009 
£’000 
2010
£’000 
Profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 29,661 41,795 5,561 (79,690) (22,918)
Net finance expense/ (income) (289) 763 2,478 4,958 12,104 
Depreciation and amortisation 2,579 3,051 7,113 8,371 7,623 
EBITDA 31,951 45,609 15,152 (66,361) (3,191)
Exceptional items – (3,834) 15,052 44,593 19,602 
Adjusted EBITDA 31,951 41,775 30,204 (21,768) 16,411 
The figures above have been extracted from the audited financial statements for those years. 
   
Shareholder Analysis 
As at 30 April 2010 
 
  www.dtz.com 
 
81
Shareholders by size of holding 
Number of 
holdings % 
Balance as at
30 April 2010 % 
1–500 1,019 41.56 218,697 0.08 
501–1,000 307 12.52 232,672 0.09 
1,001–5,000 555 22.63 1,416,675 0.53 
5,001–10,000 157 6.40 1,098,951 0.41 
10,001–50,000 224 9.14 5,449,641 2.05 
50,001–100,000 59 2.41 4,218,274 1.59 
100,001–500,000 88 3.59 19,752,744 7.44 
500,001–1,000,000 14 0.57 10,456,455 3.94 
1,000,001 and over 29 1.18 222,532,971 83.86 
Total 2,452 100.00 265,377,080 100.00 
 
  Financial Calendar 
DTZ Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
82 
AGM 
17 September 2010 – 10.00 am at 125 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 2BQ 
 
Reporting 
Interim Management Statement September 2010 
Half year to 31 October 2010 December 2010 
Interim Management Statement March 2011 
Full year to 30 April 2011 July 2011 
 
 
 
 
Advisers 
Independent Auditors 
Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
 
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS13 8AE 
 
Registered number 
2088415 
 
Registered office 
125 Old Broad Street 
London EC2N 2BQ 
www.dtz.com 
 
Stockbrokers 
J.P. Morgan Securities Limited 
 
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
 
Solicitors 
Clifford Chance LLP 
 
 
  www.dtz.com
www.dtz.com
Visit our website to find out more about our:
• Services
• Markets
• Properties
• Research
• News
Our website is available in over 20 languages.
This report has been printed on revive 50:50 Silk paper. This paper is made from 50% pre and post consumer 
waste and 50% virgin wood fibre, independently certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship 
Council). It is manufactured at a mill that is certified to ISO14001 environmental management standards. 
The pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
Published by Black Sun Plc +44 (0)20 7736 0011 
Photography by Paul Harmer, Jason Scott and John Deehan
DTZ is a global real estate adviser providing leading‑edge property 
insight and on‑the‑ground delivery to investors, developers, corporate 
and public sector occupiers, and financial intermediaries across the 
breadth of their real estate needs.
We are a global firm but we recognise that our clients’ needs are 
tied to the local markets in which they invest, develop, and operate. 
Deep knowledge of local markets has always been a cornerstone 
of DTZ across its offices worldwide. In fact we go one step further 
– actively sharing our knowledge to bring the best of our global 
expertise to each and every client assignment.
In summary, our global team is united by a single focus – to deliver 
our clients exceptional service, rooted in a deep understanding 
of their needs and a commitment to long‑term success.
www.dtz.com DTZ Holdings plc
125 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 2BQ
Telephone +44 (0)20 3296 3000
www.dtz.com
DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
DTZ Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
