 Empresaria Group plc     ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
An international 
specialist 
staffing group.
Balanced and 
diversified by 
geography and 
sector.
Empresaria Group plc
Empresaria Group plc
REGISTERED OFFICE
Old Church House 
Sandy Lane
Crawley Down
Crawley
West Sussex 
RH10 4HS
T: +44 (0) 1342 711 430  
F: +44 (0) 1342 711 449  
E: info@empresaria.com
www.empresaria.com Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
3 Regions
Empresaria is an international specialist staffing group, with a strategy to develop leading brands 
within our sector expertise and to be diversified and balanced across geographies and sectors. 
The Group follows a multi-branded business model to address global talent and skills shortages. 
The Group operates in 18 countries across three primary 
geographic regions: UK, Continental Europe and Rest of the 
World. We are organised across six sectors, with each brand 
being a specialist in their niche market within our broad sector 
categories. The brand’s specific expertise and knowledge of 
their market enables them to understand the needs of clients 
and candidates alike, allowing them to attack the market 
vertically rather than horizontally. Our spread of operations 
minimises the dependence on any single market, so reducing 
the impact from market fluctuations and other external factors. 
We are focused on growth markets, whether this is country or 
sector based.
The Group has three main service lines, temporary recruitment, 
permanent recruitment and offshore recruitment services. 
Overall we like to have a bias for temporary recruitment which  
is generally expected to be more stable throughout the 
economic cycle, but this also depends on the maturity of 
the staffing sector in each country, with less mature markets 
focused purely on permanent sales. We target professional  
and specialist job levels where our brands can offer a higher 
value added service to clients.
The Group applies a philosophy of management equity to 
align the interests of shareholders and key management 
through the sharing of risk and reward, with operating 
company management teams owning shares directly in their 
own businesses. There is a decentralised structure with local 
management retaining operational autonomy and central 
functions focussing on financial planning and control,  
Group development and administration.
OVERVIEW
Empresaria Group plc
19 
Brands
3 Service lines
6 Key 
sectors
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 04
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 04
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 05
PERMANENT 
40%
TEMPORARY
55%
OFFSHORE 
RECRUITMENT  
SERVICES
4%
UK  37%
REST OF THE 
WORLD  
 
33%
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE 
30%
OTHER 
1% Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1
STRATEGIC REPORT
Financial highlights
Operating highlights
■ Revenue of £187.3m down 0.3% due 
to negative currency impacts and a 
reduction in lower margin work
■ Net fee income up 10% on prior year 
■ Ten consecutive quarters of net fee 
income growth
■ Conversion ratio increases to 16.3% 
from 14.7%
■ Operating profit up 19% to £7.6m
■ Profit before tax up 20% to £7.1m
■ Diluted earnings per share up 24% 
to 9.9p
■ Continued strength in  
German performance
■ Strong growth of Offshore 
Recruitment Services from India
■ Successful integration of  
investments made in 2014
■ Net debt reduced by 26% to £7.3m
■ Second brand launches in UAE
■ Investment in October 2015 in  
USA based professional  
healthcare staffing company
■ 16% increase in average  
number of staff
Contents 
 
 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
Chairman’s statement 02
Group at a glance 04
Multi-branded business model 06
Market drivers 08
Our strategy 10
Chief Executive’s review 12
Key Performance Indicators  18
Risks and uncertainties 20
Finance review 24
 
GOVERNANCE 
Board of Directors 28
Corporate social responsibility 30
Directors’ report 31
Directors’ responsibilities statement 34
Corporate governance statement 35
Audit Committee report 41
Directors’ remuneration report 44
Nomination Committee report 49
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report 50
Consolidated income statement 51
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 52
Consolidated balance sheet 53
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity  54
Consolidated cash flow statement 55
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 56
Independent auditor’s report 85
Parent Company balance sheet 86
Parent Company statement  
of changes in equity 87
Parent Company cash  
flow statement 88
Notes to the parent Company  
financial statements 89
 
INFORMATION 
Officers and professional advisers 96
NET FEE INCOME (£M)
£49.2m (2014: £44.6m)
10%
24% 43%
23%
11 13 12 14 15
46.9
42.6
43.9
44.6
49.2
ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS (P)
9.9p (2014 8.0p)
11 11 13 13 12 12 14 14 15 15
4.0
0.35
6.2
0.35
5.0
0.35
8.0
0.70
9.9 1.00
DIVIDEND GROWTH
1.00p (2014: 0.70p)
ADJUSTED PROFIT  
BEFORE TAX (£M)
£7.5m (2014: £6.1m)
11 13 12 14 15
4.5
5.4
4.6
6.1
7.5
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
The Chairman’s statement and Strategic report (‘the reviews’) 
have been prepared solely to provide additional information to 
shareholders to assess the Company’s strategies and the potential 
for those strategies to succeed. The reviews should  
not be relied on by any party or for any other purpose. 
The reviews contain certain forward looking statements. These 
statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on the 
information available to them up to the time of their approval of this 
report and such statements should be treated with caution due to 
the inherent uncertainties, including both economic  
and business risk factors, underlying any such forward  
looking information.  Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
2
STRATEGIC REPORT – CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Chairman’s statement
‘ The Group has delivered  
another period of strong  
profit and earnings per  
share growth’
It has been an important year in the Group’s 
development as we delivered a record 
profit, developed the organic investments 
made in 2014, invested in new staff across 
our brands and issued new equity to fund 
the purchase of a high quality business 
operating in the USA healthcare sector, 
which also brought new investors onto  
the shareholder register.
The Group again delivered strong growth in profit and 
earnings per share in 2015, despite the continued impact  
of foreign exchange. This currency issue and our strategy of 
reducing our exposure to low margin, high volume business 
in the Technical & Industrial sector meant Group revenue 
remained broadly flat at £187.3m (2014: £187.9m). However, 
net fee income grew 10% to £49.2m (2014: £44.6m) as 
permanent recruitment sales were up 28% year on year.  
Net fee income from temporary recruitment was down 1.5%, 
due to a 3.5% reduction in sales, partially offset by improved 
margins of 16.7% (2014: 16.3%). Permanent sales, including 
the Offshore Recruitment Services (‘ORS’) business, now 
account for 45% of net fee income (2014: 38%).
Operating profit grew by 19% to £7.6m (2014: £6.4m), with 
costs being carefully managed to help the conversion ratio 
improve to 16.3% (2014: 14.7%). Interest costs were level 
with the prior year, resulting in profit before tax increasing 
20% to £7.1m. On an adjusted basis, excluding amortisation, 
exceptional items and profit or loss on disposal of 
businesses, operating profit of £8.0m was up 21%  
on prior year and profit before tax was £7.5m, up 23%.
Diluted earnings per share grew by 24% to 9.3p in line 
with our vision to deliver sustainable growth in earnings 
per share. On an adjusted basis it grew by 24% to 9.9p, 
increasing for the fourth year in a row.
ADJUSTED PROFIT 
BEFORE TAX
£7.5m  
(2014: £6.1m)
23%
Trading summary 
£’m 2015 2014 % change
% change 
constant 
currency**
Revenue 187.3 187.9 (0.3%) 3%
Net fee income 49.2 44.6 10% 16%
Operating profit 7.6 6.4 19% 29%
Profit before tax 7.1 5.9 20% 30%
Adjusted operating profit* 8.0 6.6 21% 30%
Adjusted profit before tax* 7.5 6.1 23% 44%
*  The adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax figures exclude exceptional items, 
profit or loss on disposal of businesses and intangible amortisation.
**  The like-for-like currency movement is calculated by translating the 2014 results at the 2015 
exchange rates. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3
We have made further progress in reducing our debt whilst 
also continuing to invest in the business. During the year 
the Group generated £7.6m of cash from operations which 
helped reduce our net debt from £9.8m to £7.3m. This 
includes the new term loan taken out in October to help fund 
the purchase of Pharmaceutical Strategies in the USA. This 
means we have achieved our target of a ‘debt to debtors’ 
ratio of no more than 25%, with the ratio dropping to 23% 
this year. This is a great achievement and demonstrates the 
improving financial strength of the Group.
INVESTMENTS
Underpinning our strategy is our focus on investing in our 
existing brands, to help develop them to build long-term 
sustainable profit streams. Complementing this, we evaluate 
external investment opportunities to accelerate the growth 
of the Group and increase our presence in sectors where we 
feel we are under-represented.
In line with our strategy, in October we purchased 
Pharmaceutical Strategies (PS), a healthcare staffing firm 
operating from Boston and servicing clients throughout 
the USA. PS specialises in providing qualified pharmacists 
and nurses to the healthcare sector, in particular to the 
Pharmacy Benefit Management companies. This sector is 
undergoing high growth rates due to the implementation of 
the Affordable Care Act and we see good prospects for the 
business over the medium-term. This investment also takes 
the Group into a new geography and provides a base for 
other brands to use if they want to enter the USA market. 
We have been pleased at how quickly it has integrated  
into the Group.
PEOPLE
The Group has a stable and experienced Board which is 
working hard to deliver growth, reduce risk and improve  
our long-term financial performance, which in turn leads  
to higher shareholder returns.
A key part of our business model is management equity, 
aligning key management and shareholder interests. This 
approach enables Empresaria to attract and retain the  
best people. At the end of the year we had 42 management 
shareholders, owning shares in different Group companies. 
We expect to increase this number during 2016.
The success of the Group is testament to the hard work and 
commitment of our staff and the Board would like to thank 
every individual for their contribution to the business. I have 
visited a number of our brands over the last year and have 
been impressed by the dedication and hard work I have  
seen from our staff.
GOVERNANCE
We have the right system of Governance in place to deliver on 
our vision and ensure there is a sustainable profitable future.
The Group adopts high standards of corporate governance 
which we believe is a core requirement for a successful 
business operating a decentralised model across different 
regions and brands. There is a strong culture of financial 
control in the Group, with clear policies covering corporate 
conduct and governance. The Board develops the Group’s 
corporate governance arrangements with reference to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
The values and culture of the Group, which is based on 
shared ownership and true operational autonomy for brand 
managers, are key to our long-term growth prospects. As 
the Group continues to grow and operate in more countries 
the Board pays particular attention to maintaining this strong 
operating philosophy and it is reinforced during our leader’s 
conference, last held in 2015 in Oman.
DIVIDEND
The Board has reviewed the dividend in the light of the 
positive trading result, stronger balance sheet and reduction 
in total debt. The Board intends to follow a progressive 
dividend policy in line with trading performance and for the 
year ending 31 December 2015 the Board has proposed a 
final dividend of 1.0p per share (2014: 0.7p per share) which, 
if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, 
will be paid on 31 May 2016 to shareholders on the register 
on 6 May 2016.
OUTLOOK
The Group has delivered another period of strong profit 
and earnings per share growth, driven by our focused 
growth strategy. We are confident that 2016 will be another 
year of growth with the Group benefiting from both the 
investments made in its existing brands and the purchase of 
Pharmaceutical Strategies.
Despite wider market uncertainties at the start of the year we 
see exciting opportunities to develop our network. We are 
committed to growing the business to drive increased profits 
and enhanced shareholder value. We look forward to the 
year ahead with confidence.
Anthony Martin
Chairman
1 March 2016 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT  –  TITLE
4
STRATEGIC REPORT – GROUP AT A GLANCE
Group at a glance
19 brands,  
6 key sectors in  
3 geographic regions
TECHNICAL  
& INDUSTRIAL
NET FEE INCOME
£21.5m
(2014: £20.8m)
BRANDS
RETAIL
NET FEE INCOME 
£3.4m
(2014: £3.2m)
BRANDS
OTHER
NET FEE INCOME
£4.1m
(2014: £4.2m)
BRANDS
IT, DIGITAL  
& DESIGN
NET FEE INCOME
£9.2m
(2014: £7 .2m)
BRANDS
EXECUTIVE 
SEARCH
NET FEE INCOME 
£3.1m
(2014: £2.6m)
BRANDS
PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES
NET FEE INCOME
£6.2m
(2014: £5.1m)
BRANDS
HEALTHCARE
NET FEE INCOME
£1.7m
(2014: £1.5m)
BRANDS
people. passion. possibilities. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5
UNITED 
KINGDOM
NET FEE INCOME 
£18.4m
(2014: £15.9m)
BRANDS
BECOME · FASTTRACK 
REFLEX · LMA 
MANSION HOUSE
TEAMSALES 
GREYCOAT · McCALL  
BALL AND HOOLAHAN
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 14
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE
COUNTRIES OF OPERATION: 
GERMANY · AUSTRIA
FINLAND
NET FEE INCOME 
£14.5m
(2014: £15.0m)
BRANDS
HEADWAY · MEDIRADIX
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 15
REST OF  
THE WORLD
COUNTRIES OF OPERATION: 
JAPAN · INDONESIA · INDIA 
AUSTRALIA · CHILE · UAE · USA 
THAILAND · SINGAPORE · CHINA 
HONG KONG · PHILIPPINES 
MALAYSIA · MEXICO
NET FEE INCOME
£16.3m
(2014: £13.7m)
BRANDS
SKILLHOUSE · FINES 
BECOME · MONROE · LEARNING 
RESOURCES · IMS · BW&P 
PHARMACEUTICAL STRATEGIES 
ALTERNATTIVA · McCALL
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 16 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
6
STRATEGIC REPORT – MULTI-BRANDED BUSINESS MODEL
Multi-branded business model
PEOPLE
The skills and expertise 
of our staff.
MANAGEMENT EQUITY 
PHILOSOPHY
Senior managers hold equity in 
their company, so aligning their 
interests with shareholders. 
This helps attract and then 
retain ambitious and talented 
managers. Our decentralised 
structure and entrepreneurial 
culture enables managers to 
run their businesses effectively 
and react to local opportunities.
TEMPORARY RECRUITMENT
(55% of net fee income)
A fee is earned for the time 
worked by the candidate with 
the client, as a percentage of 
the salary earned in the period. 
OFFSHORE RECRUITMENT 
SERVICES
(4% of net fee income)
A range of recruitment services 
are provided to clients from an 
offshore centre.
BRAND REPUTATION
Our brands are experts 
in their markets.
VALUES
Our decentralised 
structure with operational 
autonomy for managers
FOCUS ON GROWTH 
MARKETS
We target operations in growth 
regions and sectors and have  
a good presence in high  
growth markets.
OTHER SERVICES
(1% of net fee income)
We also provide Training 
services in South East Asia.
TECHNOLOGY
Our ability to connect 
with clients and 
candidates.
FINANCIAL
Our ability to invest in 
the business. 
MULTI-BRANDED MODEL
We target different segments 
of the market with different 
brands. Each brand has 
specific in-depth knowledge 
and expertise in their market.
PERMANENT RECRUITMENT
(40% of net fee income)
We earn fees when a candidate 
is placed in a role with a client, 
with the fee typically being a 
percentage of the candidate’s 
total salary. Services are 
generally provided on a 
contingent basis, so fees are 
only earned when a vacancy 
is filled.
NETWORK
Our brands are servicing 
clients and candidates 
across the world.
OPERATIONAL FOCUS ON 
TEMPORARY RECRUITMENT
Providing ongoing temporary 
recruitment services develops 
long-term client relationships and 
helps financial planning through 
more predictable earnings.
RESOURCES & 
RELATIONSHIPS
HOW WE  
CREATE VALUE
HOW WE  
GENERATE REVENUE 
We focus on what we know 
best with 99% of our business 
from recruitment services.
The vision of the Group is to be a leading international, specialist staffing group delivering a quality service to our customers 
and candidates that generates a sustainable growth in earnings per share.
To succeed we need to align our resources behind our strategic priorities. We depend on our staff to develop relationships 
with clients and candidates, helping to get people working through their in-depth knowledge of their markets. Our structure 
provides people with the freedom to run their business, supported by a focused central team.
INVESTING IN THE FUTURE Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7
HELPING PEOPLE FIND JOBS AND DEVELOP 
THEIR CAREERS
We help people to find work so they can provide for 
their families and develop their skills and experience.
MAINTAIN DIVERSIFICATION AND BALANCE BY 
GEOGRAPHY AND SECTOR
Having a spread of operations across geographies 
and sectors reduces the reliance on any single 
market and minimises the impact from market 
fluctuations and external shocks.
DEVELOP SUSTAINABLE BRANDS WITH STRONG 
REPUTATION
By providing a quality value added service to our 
clients and candidates we enhance our brand 
reputation which should help generate repeat  
and new business.
SUPPORTING LOCAL BUSINESS
We help businesses find the workers they need to 
meet their goals.
FINANCIAL RETURNS
Growth in profit and cash-flow allow us to invest in 
the future of the business.
INCREASED SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
We are delivering sustainable returns for 
shareholders with growth in earnings per share  
and a progressive dividend policy in line with  
trading performance. 
DEVELOP LEADING SPECIALIST BRANDS  
WITH SECTOR EXPERTISE 
We invest in our brands to ensure they have  
sufficient scale and strength to deliver sustainable 
profits. Our primary focus is on professional and 
specialist job roles in sectors which have good  
long-term growth prospects.
REWARDING CAREERS FOR STAFF
Our culture and values allow staff to develop and 
flourish, so they can reach their own goals and 
improve their careers.
OUTCOMES STRATEGIC FOCUS
We operate with a consistent business model and strategy, focused on growth. We target profit growth rather than simply 
revenue generation, with the quality of earnings important, so helping create sustainable long-term shareholder value.
If we provide a good service to our clients and candidates it will help us to deliver profits, which creates value for 
shareholders and allows us to reinvest in the business to benefit more clients and candidates.
We make a direct social and economic contribution in the countries we operate in, helping people to find work, to  
develop their careers and support their families and through tax payments and use of local suppliers. 
INVESTING IN THE FUTURE
DEVELOP A SOLID FINANCIAL FOUNDATION 
Having a strong financial foundation is key  
to delivering long-term sustainable results for  
the Group. 
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 10-11 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
8
STRATEGIC REPORT – MARKET DRIVERS
Market drivers that shape our strategy
The key drivers for the Group’s strategy include economic activity, population growth and 
urbanisation, talent shortages and access to staff. These are explained below.
INDUSTRY OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES:
The level of regulation in the market indicates how sophisticated it is, with higher regulations generally creating a bigger 
staffing industry. This is illustrated by the temporary penetration rate, which represents the number of agency workers in 
a country as a percentage of the total working population. Regulations generally provide better working conditions and 
so encourage workers away from unofficial employment, which helps to develop the staffing industry. 
Talent shortages exist in key sectors that we operate in such as Engineering, Healthcare and IT, as there are insufficient 
workers with the necessary skills due to either technological advances or growth from emerging markets fuelling 
demand. This will increase the globalisation of the workforce in these sectors and the need for specialist recruiters to 
be able to source the best talent available. There is also an expected reduction in the number of low skilled jobs in the 
future, with half of US jobs predicted to be at risk of being computerised over the next two decades according to ’The 
Future of Employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation?’ by C Frey & M Osborne (2013).
There is an ongoing trend towards flexible working practices, including project based work and outsourcing. This is 
coming from changing candidate preferences and the need for clients to manage costs. In the established staffing 
markets we see an increased use of Preferred Supplier Lists (PSL) and Managed Service Providers (MSP) and with 
advances in technology there are new business models being developed for the industry that could change the way 
businesses find and hire talent in the future.
OUR OPPORTUNITY:
We have a bias towards temporary recruitment, offering workers the flexibility to work when they want or to help people 
get into the working environment. We expect this trend to increase and as markets get more regulated it removes 
any negative sentiment towards temporary working. We look to maintain a strong temporary and interim recruitment 
service offering. Our focus is also on professional and specialist job roles where we believe the biggest talent shortages 
exist and where recruitment agencies are needed to help identify hard-to-find candidates, reducing our exposure to 
generalist roles. 
We have a fast-growing ORS business, operating out of India and providing services primarily in the USA and UK, often 
helping agencies that are operating under MSP arrangements and require outsourced support to meet their agreed 
service levels. We keep a close eye on new technologies and business models but we believe the key benefit of using a 
staffing agency is the expertise and knowledge they have of their market, so helping to source hard to find candidates 
and make the best possible match against job specifications. We encourage staff training and development across the 
Group and our multi-branded model develops niche sector expertise.
MACRO-ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DRIVERS
INDUSTRY OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE
Economic growth
Market size and specialisation
Competition for talent – global markets
Population size
Urbanisation
Growth of the middle classes in emerging markets 
Talent shortages
Flexible working practices
Advances in technology & disruptive business models
Market regulations
Develop leading brands which are specialists  
in their markets
Focus on professional & specialist job roles
Focus on sectors with long-term growth prospects
Diversified and balanced by geography and sector
Focus on key economic centres
Mix of established and emerging markets Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9
MACRO-ECONOMIC DRIVERS:
SOCIAL DRIVERS:
Staffing market growth is heavily linked to economic growth and levels of business confidence. Good economic conditions 
increase hiring activity by creating new roles and candidates having confidence to move between roles, creating job churn. 
This dual impact means staffing markets are generally expected to grow at higher rates to country GDP.
The size of a market illustrates the existing opportunity for staffing companies and the level of specialism in the market, 
with larger markets having a greater degree of specialism. 
The world economy is increasingly inter-connected with businesses operating across international boundaries. 
Employment opportunities are following this trend with more people working outside their country of birth.
The population size in emerging markets points to long-term growth prospects for their staffing markets as skills improve and 
more people require work. There is also an ongoing trend for urbanisation, leading to a concentration of workers in the key 
economic centres, especially in emerging markets. The UN Department of Economics and Social Affairs estimate that 1.5 
million people are added to the global urban population each week. This concentration of workers to the largest cities means 
these cities are the main drivers of GDP growth. The Brookings Institution estimates that 50% of global GDP is generated by 
the 300 largest metropolitan areas.
There is also a trend for growth in the number of middle class and education levels in emerging markets, creating 
opportunities for growth in staffing markets to find employment opportunities for those newly entering the marketplace. The 
PwC analysis of OECD projections (2010) predicted that by the end of this year the size of the middle class in Asia Pacific is 
expected to overtake Europe and North America combined.
OUR OPPORTUNITY:
We have a presence in both established and emerging staffing markets. Nearly three quarters of our net fee income 
is derived from the UK, Germany, Japan and USA, which are four of the top five largest staffing markets in the world. 
The UK, Japanese and USA markets are highly developed with established staffing sectors. This provides a significant 
market opportunity for our brands to operate as niche market experts as well as the ability to find experienced managers 
who have the skills and expertise to develop international brands. The German staffing market is relatively immature 
having only de-regulated in 2004. It is the largest economy in Europe and we expect their staffing market to grow to be 
the biggest in Europe over the medium-term. With the exception of Japan and Australia, the Asian and Latin American 
staffing markets are immature. There is little or no temporary recruitment in South East Asia, but as the staffing market 
develops we expect this will start to grow and we are well positioned to benefit from this. These markets also have high 
growth prospects and over time as they develop and mature, this should lead to more specialisation. The PwC World in 
2050 projections predict that by 2030 seven of the world’s biggest 12 economies will come from emerging markets.
By developing our brands to be market leaders and with operations across 18 countries we are able to service client  
and candidate needs across the world. It is an important part of our strategic plans to identify opportunities for brands 
to cross-border their expertise and provide an international service.
OUR OPPORTUNITY:
There is a significant long-term growth potential in the emerging markets coming from the size of their populations, 
concentration of work in large cities and increasing levels of middle class with better education levels than the previous 
generations. This is why we like to have a good presence in the emerging markets with a particular focus on Asia Pacific, 
India and Latin America. As these markets develop we will be positioned to grow with them.
In our markets we focus on the key economic centres, where we will see the best return on our investment. We do not 
want to have large branch networks but focus where the workers are concentrated and so where we can get the best 
return on our investment. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
10
STRATEGIC REPORT – TITLE STRATEGIC REPORT – OUR STRATEGY
Our strategy
The Group’s strategy is focused on growth facilitating our vision to be a 
leading international, specialist staffing group delivering a quality service to our 
customers and candidates and creating a sustainable business for the long-term 
benefit of shareholders.
BUY AND BUILD APPROACH OBJECTIVE
DEVELOP LEADING SPECIALIST BRANDS  
WITH SECTOR EXPERTISE
We invest in our brands to ensure they have sufficient 
scale and strength to deliver sustainable profits. They 
should be more financially stable during the economic 
cycle and will benefit from synergies in operational 
processes, training, systems and marketing.
Focus on professional and specialist job levels 
where there are the greatest talent shortages which  
in turn means margins are strongest. Our tailored 
service and sector expertise helps us to find the  
most suitable candidates.
Sectors with good long-term growth prospects 
where our niche sector expertise makes us best placed 
to deliver to the needs of clients and candidates.
WE FOLLOW A BUY AND BUILD APPROACH 
TO DELIVER ON OUR STRATEGY.
BUILD
It is important that our existing brands develop and grow 
their profits over the long-term. Organic investment 
helps them to develop their services and grow scale and 
coverage. This is done by the following:
• Increase the headcount in an existing brand
• Add a new vertical specialism to an existing brand
• Enter a new or existing geography with an  
existing brand
• Start-up in a niche sector
BUY
To accelerate our growth we also look at  
external investments, to fill gaps in our sector  
or geographic coverage.
External investment is most likely where we don’t 
currently have a presence in a region or sector or to 
help develop an existing brand by filling in gaps in their 
service offering:
• Enter a new geography or sector with a new brand
• Grow an existing brand with a bolt-on acquisition
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
Our investment activity is dependent on the resources 
we have available. We are in an overall debt position and 
we target a ‘debt to debtors’ ratio of 25%. We have a 
disciplined approach towards capital and funding with 
an intention for investments to be funded through equity 
or from operating cash flows and debt to be used for 
working capital funding.
MAINTAIN DIVERSIFICATION AND BALANCE  
BY GEOGRAPHY AND SECTOR
Having a spread of operations across geographies and 
sectors reduces the reliance on any single market and 
minimises the impact from market fluctuations and 
external shocks. 
Footprint in key economic centres where there is 
the highest concentration of workers and business so 
delivering the best return on investment.
Established and emerging markets allows access  
to both stable mature markets and high growth 
emerging areas.
DEVELOP A SOLID FINANCIAL FOUNDATION 
Having a strong financial foundation is key to delivering 
long-term sustainable results for the Group.
Funding is available to allow the Group to pursue 
investment opportunities. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11
RISKS AND KPIs PROGRESS & OUTLOOK
• Net fee income from professional and specialist job roles increased  
to 86% (2014: 81%).
• Investment in a leading brand in the pharmacy benefit managers  
niche of the US healthcare market.
• Opened second brand in Dubai.
• Increased average staff numbers to 1,096 from 942.
• Increased office space for four brands to expand into in 2016.
• Divested of two non-core small brands in early 2015 (GiT in Czech  
Republic and Slovakia and Metis in Malaysia).
• Expanded operations to USA and strengthened presence in healthcare 
sector with investment in PS.
• Integrated investments and new office openings made in 2014. 
• Split of net fee income by region is 37% UK, 30% Continental Europe and 
33% Rest of the World, although the two single largest countries (UK and 
Germany) represent 65% of the Group net fee income.
From a sector perspective we are keen to increase our presence in IT, 
Healthcare and the Professional services sectors, which we see as having 
good long-term growth prospects and we are currently under-represented in.
We have made good progress in reducing our debt levels, despite the 
ongoing investment in the business. We delivered a record adjusted profit 
before tax which has helped to reduce our net debt to £7.3m at the end of the 
year, in line with our target of reaching a 25% debt to debtors ratio. This also 
represents a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.8.
KEY RISKS
1
 
2
 
4
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 20
KPIs
1
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 18
KEY RISKS
1
 
3
 
4
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 20
KPIs
1
 
3
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 18
KEY RISKS
5
 
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 20
KPIs
2
 
8
 FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
 PAGE 18 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT  –  TITLE
12
STRATEGIC REPORT – CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Chief Executive’s review
Announcing record profit levels and our largest investment 
for eight years is testament to the strength of our strategy of 
building a diversified group and developing leading brands.
We have made good progress against this strategy, with net 
fee income growth across all of our regions and an improved 
conversion ratio, helping to reduce debt levels again, down 
below our target ratio of 25% ‘debt to debtors’. 
Our purchase of Pharmaceutical Strategies (‘PS’) opened 
up a new region in the USA, further diversifying the Group 
geographically and at the same time strengthening our 
presence in the healthcare sector. PS is expected to deliver 
a good uplift in profit into 2016, having integrated well into 
the Group and is operating in a high growth market sector 
with good long-term prospects.
Last year we presented our five year growth plan to 2018 and 
we have been pleased with our progress, with improvements 
made in all areas. We delivered a growth in net fee income 
of 10% despite unfavourable currency movements (16% in 
constant currency), an increase in the conversion ratio to 
16.3%, the fourth year of continued improvement and we 
reduced our ‘debt to debtors’ ratio from 32% to 23%, below 
our 25% target. This is important to enable to Group to take 
advantage of opportunities that arise and to be able to 
invest in the ongoing business. There is still more to be done 
but we believe we are on the right track and the Board is 
focused on making all of the targets a reality.
Organic growth is at the core of our business model and 
we have specific plans with each brand to develop them 
into leading brands in their sectors. However, to meet our 
long-term goals we also see the need to supplement our 
organic growth with external investments; to enter a new 
geography, increase our presence in an existing sector or as 
a bolt-on to an existing brand. We have an ongoing business 
development programme to identify suitable brands to join 
the group, where there is a fit of people and culture and 
where they meet our strategic priorities.
‘ Announcing record profit levels and 
our largest investment for eight years 
is testament to the strength of our 
strategy of building a diversified group 
and developing leading brands.’
5 year Plan 
2014-2018
Target 2015 2014
Net fee income growth 10% 10% 5%
Conversion ratio 20% 16.3% 14.7%
Debt to debtors ratio 25% 23% 32% Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
Case study
PHARMACEUTICAL 
STRATEGIES
In October 2015 we acquired 100% of the 
Pharmaceutical Strategies Group (‘PS’), 
comprising Pharmaceutical Strategies LLC, 
Recruitment Strategies LLC, Medical  
Recruitment Strategies LLC and Recruitment 
Strategies Group LLC.
www.pharmaceuticalstrategies.com
The PS Group is based in Stoneham, 
Massachusetts, just outside Boston, 
from where it services clients across 
the whole of the USA with a team of 
19 staff. PS has a strong presence in 
the Pharmacy Benefit Management 
(‘PBM’) sector of the healthcare 
market. The PBM sector has seen 
rapid growth in recent years following 
the adoption of the Affordable Care 
Act, which is reforming the healthcare 
system by providing more Americans 
with affordable quality health 
insurance. The obamacarefacts.
com website identifies that 32 million 
Americans will be able to afford health 
care who could not get it before. 
Under the adoption of the Act 95% of 
Americans would be insured. In 2013 
over 15% were without insurance. The 
growth in the healthcare market is also 
being driven by an ageing population, 
increasing levels of obesity and the 
positive economic conditions over 
the last 5 years. These factors are 
forecast to drive increased demand for 
staffing in the healthcare sector into 
the mid-term.
PBM companies serve as the 
middlemen between insurance 
companies, pharmacies and 
manufacturers to secure lower drug 
costs for insurers and insurance 
companies. Since drug costs have 
been steadily increasing over the 
years, insurance companies have been 
relying more on PBM companies to 
control costs. The US Department of 
Health and Human Services projects 
growth in healthcare expenditure to 
average 5.8% per annum between 
2014 and 2024. The PBM companies 
collectively bring in almost $300 billion 
in revenues each year and engage 
more than 210 million Americans 
through their services (source: Wall 
Street Journal).
PS provides qualified pharmacists 
and pharmacist technicians to the 
PBM companies, primarily to assist 
in call centres dealing with questions 
from doctors and individuals about 
which drugs are available on specific 
client health plans or what would be 
available on a change of plan. They 
also provide pharmacists, pharmacist 
technicians, nurses, and other 
healthcare professionals to hospitals, 
speciality pharmacies, dispensing 
facilities, long-term care centres and 
in-home healthcare providers. 
PS currently provide temporary staff 
across the country and estimate that 
they have a relationship with 70% of 
the PBM market. 
PS represents a good strategic fit to 
Empresaria, by bolstering our presence 
in the high growth healthcare sector 
and further diversifying the Group 
geographically, with an entry into 
the US market. PS is a temporary 
recruitment business focused on 
professional and specialist roles, so 
is complementary to our focus of 
building a temporary recruitment bias 
and operational mix. In line with our 
management equity business model, 
the CEO of PS is remaining with the 
business and is tied in with second 
generation equity incentive.
NET FEE INCOME 
GROWTH: 
2014 TO 2015 =
53% Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT  –  TITLE
14
STRATEGIC REPORT – CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
United Kingdom
Brands:
OVERVIEW
In the UK revenue declined by 5% due to the deliberate 
move away from low value work in the Technical & Industrial 
sector. The lower paid end of this sector has been heavily 
impacted by changes in legislation, with false self-
employment legislation implemented in April 2014 and new 
travel and subsistence rules in place from April 2016. Our 
approach to transition away from the generalist market 
and to increase our presence in professional and specialist 
roles has helped offset the impact of this to a certain 
extent, but there has been a short-term profit impact with 
a lower contribution from this sector in 2015. Excluding this 
sector there was revenue growth of 27%, with a particularly 
strong result from the Professional services area, helped 
by improved conditions in the banking sector and ongoing 
growth within the HR and Secretarial areas. We enjoyed 
a full contribution from Ball and Hoolahan, acquired in 
December 2014. This business has been successfully 
integrated into the Become group and we have clear plans to 
grow the brand’s presence across our network over the next 
few years. There were also positive performances from our 
brands in Domestic services and Retail (new house sales).
Net fee income grew by 16% to £18.4m (2014: £15.9m), 
however due to the move away from the lower paid end of 
the Technical & Industrial sector and the associated profit 
reduction, there was a reduction in conversion ratio. We also 
saw increased costs in the last quarter from three brands 
moving office. Whilst this has created space for future 
expansion there is an increase in rent costs and one-off 
moving costs. Overall there was an increase in average staff 
numbers of 27 with 224 in 2015 (2014: 197) as we continue to 
invest in the future growth.
£’m 2015 2014 2013
Revenue 62.7 65.8 70.7
Net fee income 18.4 15.9 15.8
Adjusted operating profit 2.2 2.2 2.1
% of Group net fee income 37% 35% 37%
Average number of employees 224 197 197
28%  ■  Professional services 
19%  ■  IT, digital & design 
28%  ■  Technical & Industrial 
6%  ■  Retail 
19%  ■  Other services
57%  ■  Permanent 
43%  ■  Temporary
92%  ■  Professional & specialist
8%  ■  General
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY SECTOR
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY SERVICES 
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY JOB LEVELS Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15
Continental Europe
Brands:
OVERVIEW
Continental Europe again delivered strong growth in 
profit, up over 100% in the last two years. This is due to 
the Headway business in Germany and Austria, where 
revenue growth (14% in local currency) is coupled with a 
more appropriate cost base, to deliver growth in adjusted 
operating profit of 28% in local currency. The German 
economy has grown in 2015, business confidence remains 
positive and we expect this to continue in 2016.
Our healthcare business in Finland is making good progress 
with its move away from an import model (reliant on Estonian 
staff working in Finland) to a local model (growth coming 
from Finnish staff). Costs were removed with the closure of 
a physical presence in Estonia and whilst we will continue to 
place Estonian workers we expect the mix to be in favour of 
Finnish by the end of 2016. The local economic conditions 
remain weak but we are pleased with the progress being 
made by the management team.
Due to the weak performance of the Euro, currency rates 
have negatively impacted on the reported results for  
the region, with profit growth being £0.3m higher in  
constant currency.
In line with our strategy to exit businesses without strong 
growth prospects, we finalised the exit of our loss making 
GiT business operating in Czech Republic (disposal) and 
Slovakia (closed down). 
£’m 2015 2014 2013
Revenue 75.2 76.8 76.9
Net fee income 14.5 15.0 13.9
Adjusted operating profit 3.9 3.2 1.8
% of Group net fee income 30% 34% 33%
Average number of employees 123 132 155
94%  ■  Technical & industrial 
6%  ■ Healthcare
2%  ■  Permanent 
98%  ■  Temporary
70%  ■  Professional & specialist
30%  ■  General
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY SECTOR
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY SERVICES 
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY JOB LEVELS Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
16
STRATEGIC REPORT – CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Rest of the World
Brands: 
£’m 2015 2014 2013
Revenue 49.4 45.3 46.8
Net fee income 16.3 13.7 12.9
Adjusted operating profit 1.9 1.2 2.1
% of Group net fee income 33% 31% 30%
Average number of employees 749 613 509
7%  ■   Pr ofessional 
services
37%  ■   IT, digital  
& design
17%  ■   Technical & 
industrial
15%  ■  Retail
20%  ■   Executive 
Search
4%  ■   Other 
services
55%  ■  Permanent 
30%  ■  Temporary
12%  ■  ORS 
3%  ■  Other
95%  ■  Professional & specialist
5%  ■ General
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY SECTOR
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY SERVICES 
% NET FEE INCOME  
BY JOB LEVEL
OVERVIEW
Following investment in 2014, we have seen a marked 
improvement in profit in the year with the new offices all 
delivering improved contributions this year. There were mixed 
performances across the region, with the established markets 
in Japan and Australia both performing well, as well as good 
results coming in particular from Thailand, Chile and India.
In India, our Offshore Recruitment Services business has 
seen significant growth, with staff numbers at the end of the 
year up 65% on the prior year. The plan to open a third office 
in 2016 was brought forward due to high demand, opening 
in November 2015 so they now operate out of three offices 
in Ahmedabad. This business mainly services clients in the 
USA and UK, with a primary focus on the IT and Healthcare 
sectors in each respective market. We see good opportunities 
for continued growth in 2016.
We also now have a direct presence in the USA with the 
purchase of Pharmaceutical Strategies in October 2015. 
Based in Boston, Massachusetts, they supply qualified 
pharmacists to the high-growth healthcare sector. According 
to the US Department of Health and Humans Services, 
healthcare expenditure is expected to grow at an average 
rate of 5.8% between 2014 and 2024. This growth is driven by 
increased demand from the implementation of the Affordable 
Care Act, an ageing population, rising obesity levels and good 
economic conditions.
Market conditions in South East Asia and China have been 
mixed. In Indonesia we have seen business confidence 
dented by worsening economic conditions. Our Executive 
search business saw slightly lower profit levels and our 
training business has been restructured to reflect their 
lower sales level. The majority of this programme has been 
completed in the year and the management team has been 
strengthened so we expect a marked improvement in bottom 
line performance in 2016. In Thailand we have seen strong 
growth and there have been improved performances also 
in the Philippines, Malaysia and Singapore. China is going 
through a high profile rebalancing of their economy. We only 
have a small presence in China, which has been restructured 
and rebranded to the successful executive search brand 
Monroe Consulting. We see good prospects moving into 
2016, with a greater emphasis on Chinese clients rather than 
relying on multinational companies. 
In January 2015 we sold our small stand-alone brand in 
Malaysia to management. We now operate in that market 
through our established Monroe Consulting brand which is 
making good progress. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17
The services provided to clients are either non-voice 
(such as database management, job postings, sourcing 
candidates or CV formatting) or voice based (such as 
headhunting, market research, candidate screening and 
interviews, reference checking and document collation). 
Clients can choose to cover the entire recruitment life 
cycle or specific activities.
The services are highly specialised, customised to the 
client and follow global delivery standards. Although 
services are provided to clients in any sector, the  
primary focus is on the Healthcare, IT and Engineering  
& Energy sectors.
The key asset of the company is its people. IMS invests 
heavily in training, coaching and mentoring its staff to 
ensure they deliver a high quality service to their clients. 
By the end of 2015 they had over 450 staff. On any given 
day they receive 300 orders and submit 500 candidates 
to their clients. In 2015 they filled 1,700 orders for over 
130 staffing firms.
IMS has been recognised for their achievements:
• In 2015 they were awarded the ‘Best SME in India’ in 
the emerging sector category by Dun & Bradstreet.
• Silicon India, a Bangalore headquartered magazine has 
rated IMS as the ‘Best SMEs in Offshore Recruitment 
Services’ in 2015.
• In 2014 IMS won the ‘Outsourced Solutions Provider’ 
award in Australia from Recruitment International.
IMS has clear plans to continue growing, with 
expectations of opening a fourth office in 2016 to meet 
the increasing client demand.
Case study
IMS
Interactive Manpower Solutions Pvt. 
Ltd (IMS) was a start-up in 2006 with 
the aim of providing outsourced 
services to the recruitment and 
staffing industry. Elements of the 
recruitment process are outsourced 
and delivered offshore from three 
IMS centres in India, which we call 
‘Offshore Recruitment Services’.
www.imspeople.com
NET FEE INCOME GROWTH: 
2011 TO 2015 =
428%
11 13 12 14 15
126
207
154
282
465
STAFF NUMBERS  
AT YEAR END Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
18
STRATEGIC REPORT – KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Key performance indicators
These are used to measure progress against objectives and strategy.
ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS  
PER SHARE GROWTH
 
This demonstrates the return to shareholders.  
Our strategy is designed to deliver a sustainable 
growth in earnings per share.
The remuneration of the executive directors  
(annual bonus and LTIP) is linked to this measure. 
Progress 
EPS grew by 24%, representing the fourth year of 
consecutive growth. 
NET FEE INCOME GROWTH
 
Sustainable growth in net fee income is needed to 
deliver long-term growth in net profit and earnings 
per share. 
Target 
Average annual growth of 10%.
Progress
10% (16% in constant currency).
CASH GENERATED  
FROM OPERATIONS
 
This demonstrates how much cash is being generated 
from the operations of the business before tax, 
financing and investing decisions. It is measured as 
the operating profit of the Group, excluding non-cash 
items and including working capital movements.
The remuneration of the executive directors (annual 
bonus) is linked to this measure. 
Progress 
£7.6m (2014: £6.7m)
CONVERSION RATIO
 
This demonstrates how efficiently the business 
is operating and how well the cost base is being 
managed. It measures the adjusted operating profit  
as a percentage of net fee income.
Target 
Reach 20% ratio over 5 years to 2018.
Progress 
16.3%, being the fourth consecutive year  
of improvement.
11 13 12 14 15
4.0
6.2
5.0
8.0
9.9
11 13 12 14 15
3.9
7.8
5.2
6.7
7.6
24
%
10
%
£7.6m
16.3
%
1
3
2
4
11
13 12
14 15
0.9%
-3.0%
-6.4%
5.0%
10.3%
11 13 12 14 15
11.3%
14.2%
12.0%
14.7%
16.3% Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19
NUMBER OF MANAGERS  
HOLDING EQUITY
 
This demonstrates how many senior managers 
around the Group are incentivised through equity 
ownership in their companies which is a key part 
of our business model.
Target
All brands have management holding equity.
Progress
The total number of managers is down on 
the prior year. Currently 2 brands have no 
management holding equity (2014: 3).
STAFF PRODUCTIVITY
 
This demonstrates the overall staff productivity, 
calculated as the ratio of net fee income 
generated per £1 of staff cost. The staff cost 
includes both sales and administrative staff, 
reflecting the true cost of operating the Group.
Progress
At 1.73 in 2015 we have seen an improvement 
over 2014, despite a 16% increase in average 
staff levels.
NET FEE INCOME FROM PROFESSIONAL  
& SPECIALIST ROLES 
This demonstrates how much of the business is  
from professional and specialist positions.
Target
We want to maximise our exposure to professional 
and specialist job levels as these are generally higher 
margin sectors where specialist brands can offer 
added value services.
Progress
There has been a 5 percentage point improvement 
during the year, helped by the investments made in  
the year and focus in the Technical & Industrial sector.
DEBT AS A % OF DEBTORS
 
This demonstrates how leveraged the Group is. 
The Group needs a sound financial foundation for 
long-term sustainability and to be able to react to 
opportunities in the market.
Target
To reduce this to 25% by 2018.
Progress
This reduced to 23% from 32% in the prior year, 
below our target.
11 13 12 14 15
44%
47%
49%
32%
23%
11 13 12 14 15
1.72
1.73
1.72 1.72
1.73
2015: 42 
(2014: 44)
2015: 86% 
(2014: 81%)
5
7
6
8 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
20
STRATEGIC REPORT – RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Risks and uncertainties
The risk management process followed by the Board is designed to improve the likelihood of delivering against strategy, to 
protect the interests of shareholders, to improve the quality of decision making and to help safeguard our assets. The risk 
management process consists of a group risk register which is reviewed by the Board annually with risks added, amended 
or removed as appropriate and actions updated. The group register is prepared based on individual brand registers which 
are updated during the annual budget cycle and reviewed regularly during the year with senior management at brand level 
board meetings. The Audit Committee review the control framework which helps to mitigate the risks.
The following were identified as the principal risks that are most likely to affect business operations and hence its financial 
results and delivery of strategy.
1. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT 2. LOSS OF KEY STAFF
The performance of staffing businesses has historically 
shown a strong correlation with performance of the 
economies in which they operate.
The Group’s success relies on recruiting and retaining 
senior management and other key employees.
The Group’s decentralised management structure 
gives operational autonomy to our company managing 
directors. Therefore they need to be incentivised and tied 
into the business, have suitable experience for the role, 
able to make the decisions necessary to run the business 
and develop a team to help provide succession planning.
An economic slowdown will impact on the demand  
for recruitment services and could reduce the  
Group’s profits.
The loss of a key staff member without a suitable 
successor in place could lead to a reduction in trading 
and profitability. The choice of the wrong manager for 
a business could lead to sub-optimal decision making 
and losing ground to competitors or failing to operate 
procedures properly and so being liable to fines 
or penalties.
 
No change
The global economy overall is expected to grow in 2016. 
However the economic recovery is not symmetrical 
across the world and there are a number of risks that 
threaten these forecasts and could lead to a recession  
in one or more countries. 
The global staffing market is forecast to grow in 2016  
at a stronger rate than GDP forecasts.
 
No change
There was a small reduction in the number of 
management holding equity in the period. We have 
divested two non-core brands and acquired another.
The Group’s strategy is designed to minimise the 
negative impact from an economic downturn in any one 
market, whilst acknowledging that a significant economic 
downturn will impact all businesses:
• Sector and geographic diversification. This was 
improved in the year by entering the USA market and 
developing our presence in existing locations.
• Develop core brands. By creating more robust 
businesses they should be able to better withstand 
any economic downturn. 
• We focus on temporary recruitment as this is typically 
less volatile than permanent recruitment during the 
economic cycles. Overall our exposure to permanent 
recruitment has increased in the year which increases 
this risk.
The Group’s business model is based on management 
equity, so incentivising key management through equity 
ownership and tying them to the business for the  
long-term. 
We monitor the number of managers with equity in their 
own businesses and work with existing shareholders to 
identify key staff to participate in equity in the future.
Currently there are 2 brands in the Group with no minority 
shareholders. We are making progress to reduce this by 
the end of 2016.
RISK
IMPACT 
ON 
BUSINESS
CHANGE 
IN RISK 
PROFILE
ACTIONS 
TAKEN TO 
MITIGATE 
RISK Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  21
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CHANGES
The Group’s businesses are subject to legislation and regulations in each of their locations. In particular this impacts 
temporary recruitment which is more heavily regulated to protect the rights and treatment of temporary workers and in 
developing staffing markets where new regulations are made as the market grows and develops.
Social changes impact how people search for jobs and where they are likely to live.
Any changes to labour regulations could impact on the manner in which any business, or the Group as a whole, conducts 
its business and could therefore affect the financial performance of the Group. In some territories a recruitment licence is 
required. If local laws and regulations are not followed it could lead to sanctions being taken against the company, including 
penalties, fines and licences being revoked.
Our businesses need to target the locations where people want to work. They need to be able to identify and communicate 
with candidates to ensure job vacancies are filled.
 Increased
In the UK there is a risk of leaving the EU with a vote due to be held in 2016. Until then there will be uncertainty in the market 
which could lead to a loss of business confidence. In April 2016 new legislation on travel & subsistence allowances will 
become law which will restrict the number of temporary workers able to be treated as self-employed. This is expected 
to reduce the margins available on lower paid workers who have operated through umbrella payroll structures, with this 
reduction needing to be taken by the client, agency or candidate or a mixture of them.
In Germany there is an ongoing debate over whether to introduce a limit on the length of time a worker can be a  
temporary worker.
There is an ongoing migrant crisis across Europe which could lead to restrictions on who can work in the EU.  
The fall in oil price could lead to changes in policy across the Middle East states.
There will be presidential elections in the USA at the end of 2016.
The Group closely monitors the legal and regulatory situations in the markets in which it operates, in particular where we 
operate temporary recruitment as this is an area that generally has more rules and regulations. The Group has membership 
of many local industry associations and we use professional advisers with good local knowledge and understanding of the 
relevant laws and labour regulations to ensure we are compliant in the territories in which we operate. 
Our strategy is designed to minimise the negative impact from any political and social changes:
• Diversification and balance across sectors and regions helps to reduce the potential impact in any one area.
• Focus on professional and specialist job levels reduces the exposure to changes in legislation, which are typically 
introduced to protect the most vulnerable and lowest paid workers.
• Focus on key economic centres means we are targeting the main centres where candidates want to work.
By developing leading brands in our sectors we are experts in our markets, so we are able to react to changes in legislation 
as well as making it easier to attract candidates because of our reputation and knowledge.
RISK
IMPACT 
ON 
BUSINESS
CHANGE 
IN RISK 
PROFILE
ACTIONS 
TAKEN TO 
MITIGATE 
RISK Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT  –  TITLE
22
Risks and uncertainties continued
STRATEGIC REPORT – RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
4.  INVESTMENTS POORLY EXECUTED
There is a risk of losing value from poorly executed investments.
Investments may be overvalued or poorly integrated into the Group.
Organic investments in new offices will generally be loss making in the first 1–2 years so this needs to be  
carefully managed to minimise the costs to the business.
If an investment is overvalued the Group will pay too much for it and risks a lower return in the future from profits  
being generated. A poorly executed integration into the Group could lead to lost value or lost opportunities. 
New office openings increase the risk of lower returns than planned if the business is not managed well.
 Increased
We made an additional external investment in the year, opened a new office in Dubai and plan to continue to invest  
in the Group as part of a Buy and Build strategy.
All investments, whether organic or external, must have board approval. Investments must have a clearly defined 
integration plan, with responsibility for implementation of the plan with the executive directors. Due diligence findings 
need to be acted upon to minimise any risks identified pre-acquisition. Any funding requirements must be taken into 
account for Group cashflow forecasts to ensure sufficient and appropriate funding is in place.
When investing in organic growth or bolt-on acquisitions for existing brands it is key that local management are fully 
involved and driving the process to ensure the best chance of success. 
With any investment activity the fit of the people is the most important factor. This is especially important in our group 
where there is a highly decentralised structure. This is the first criteria that must be met before any investment activity 
is pursued.
RISK
IMPACT 
ON 
BUSINESS
CHANGE 
IN RISK 
PROFILE
ACTIONS 
TAKEN TO 
MITIGATE 
RISK Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  23
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. FINANCIAL
The Group is reliant on debt financing to fund the working capital of the business.
By operating in 18 countries the Group is exposed to movements in foreign currency rates.
If the Group was unable to secure funding at current levels it could be forced to dispose of parts of the business to repay 
the existing debt.
An increase in interest rates will increase costs and so reduce the profit in the business.
The group reports in Sterling but has operations in countries with different currencies. Negative movements in exchange 
rates would impact the reporting of Group profitability and may devalue the cash and assets around the Group.
 Reduced
The currency markets continue to be volatile but our spread of operations helps to reduce the impact from any  
single currency.
The Group’s total debt has reduced during the year and is now below our target rate of 25% of trade receivables.
New equity was raised to part-fund the acquisition in the USA, with new bank facilities also in place, with the  
continued support of the Group’s banker.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of cash reserves from retained profit, bank borrowings and issuing 
new equity. Treasury management is led by the Group finance team, which manages and monitors external and internal 
funding requirements and maintains the key Group banking relationships. 
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates for its primary facilities. The Group does not currently hedge this 
exposure but monitors movements in the relevant interest rates to be able to react if the rates move adversely.
Nearly two thirds of the Group’s business is transacted outside of the UK so we are exposed to movements in exchange 
rates. The Group does not currently hedge translation risk as there is to some degree a natural hedge from our strategy 
of being diversified by region. Intra-group balances are hedged using cash or overdraft balances to act as a natural 
currency hedge, for US Dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen, Singapore Dollar and Australian Dollars. No derivative instruments 
are currently used for hedging.
RISK
IMPACT 
ON 
BUSINESS
CHANGE 
IN RISK 
PROFILE
ACTIONS 
TAKEN TO 
MITIGATE 
RISK Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
24
STRATEGIC REPORT – FINANCE REVIEW
Finance review
‘Net debt decreased 26%  
in the year to £7 .3m from 
£9.8m in 2014.’
A description of the performance of the business in the 
year is included in the Chairman’s Statement and Chief 
Executive’s Review.
FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
Finance income was £0.1m (2014: £0.1m), all being bank 
interest income. Finance costs were £0.6m (2014: £0.6m), 
which primarily related to interest payable on invoice 
discounting, bank loans and overdrafts. In 2015 there were 
also interest costs from the late payment of tax following an 
ongoing tax audit in Germany.
TAXATION
The total tax charge in the year is £2.6m (2014: £2.1m) 
representing an effective tax rate of 36% (2014: 35%). This 
rate is higher than the UK rate due to a number of factors:
• The mix of profits is weighted towards higher tax 
jurisdictions, including Germany, Japan, India and Australia.
• A deferred tax asset has not been recognised for certain 
of the tax losses around the Group.
• There are higher levels of non-deductible expenses in 
the year, including the costs related to the purchase of 
Pharmaceutical Strategies.
DIVIDEND
During the year, the Group paid a dividend of £0.3m in respect 
of the year ended 31 December 2014, amounting to 0.70p per 
share. For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Board is 
proposing a dividend of 1.0p per share, which if approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 
31 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 6 May 2016.
TREASURY
The Group has a central treasury function. Under the Group’s 
treasury policy speculative transactions are not permitted and 
where possible debt should match the location and currency 
of the related assets. The following matters are reserved for 
Board approval:
• Changes to the Group’s capital structure;
• Approval of Group financing arrangements or significant 
changes to existing arrangements;
• Approval of treasury policies and any activity involving 
forward contracts, derivatives, hedging activity and 
significant foreign currency exposures; and
• Approving the appointment of any of the Group’s  
principal bankers.
Treasury is managed to deal with the following risk areas.
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Revenue (£m) 187.3 187.9 194.4 194.3 208.8
Gross profit (£m) 49.2 44.6 42.6 43.9 46.9
Operating profit (£m) 7.6 6.4 5.5 4.4 2.8
Adjusted operating profit (£m) * 8.0 6.6 6.0 5.4 5.3
Profit before tax (£m) 7.1 5.9 4.9 3.6 1.9
Adjusted profit before tax (£m) * 7.5 6.1 5.4 4.6 4.5
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 9.3 7.5 5.2 3.0 (0.4)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) * 9.9 8.0 6.2 5.0 4.0
Proposed dividend per share (pence) 1.0 0.70 0.35 0.35 0.35
*  Adjusted measures exclude amortisation of intangible assets, gains or losses on business disposals, movements on put and call options and 
exceptional items. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25
MANAGEMENT EQUITY PHILOSOPHY
A key component of our business model is management 
equity, where senior management own shares directly in 
the operating companies they are responsible for. This is a 
key tool for both attracting good quality managers as well 
as staff retention. It means that the interests of Empresaria 
as a majority shareholder are aligned with management, 
who have an opportunity to create a meaningful capital 
value over time if they can grow the profit in their business, 
encouraging a long-term view of their business. This works 
especially well with our decentralised structure, as we are 
reliant on the local management team to run their business 
with a high level of operational autonomy.
Where we acquire a majority stake in a business, 
the shares remaining with the founder are called first 
generation shares. When these shares have been 
acquired by Empresaria, we will often offer the next tier 
of management in the business the opportunity to buy 
shares, to incentivise them to grow the business to the 
next level. We call these second generation shares. It is 
important that the shares are acquired at market value with 
management investing their own cash which is at risk if 
the business does not perform. To help lower the market 
value of the shares and to protect the profit that we have 
previously acquired, we set a ‘threshold profit’ level for 
second generation shares. These shares only start creating 
value if the profit grows above the threshold level.
Empresaria will always own a majority of the shares and 
this ranges from as little as 51% to as much as 100% in a 
couple of instances. We enter into Shareholder Agreements 
with the management shareholders, which provide a 
valuation mechanism for their shares. They typically have 
to hold their shares for a minimum period of 5 years before 
they are able to offer them for sale to Empresaria, over a 2 
or 3 year period. It is important to note that there is no legal 
obligation on Empresaria to purchase the shares and we 
decide on each specific situation, with consideration of the 
management succession plan in place, the recent trading 
performance and projections for growth in the next few 
years. The valuation is typically based on the average profit 
after tax for the previous three full years before the shares 
are sold, using the Empresaria trading multiple (share 
price divided by last EPS) less 0.5, to ensure it is earnings 
enhancing to Empresaria shareholders, and capped at a 
maximum of 10.
Liquidity & Funding risk
The Group maintains a range of appropriate facilities to 
manage its working capital and medium-term financing 
requirements. At the year-end the Group had banking 
facilities totalling £36.7m (2014: £32.5m) with the increase 
coming from overdraft facilities. The amount of facility 
undrawn of £15.6m (2014: £10.2m) excludes the headroom 
on the invoice financing facility. The invoice financing facility 
is available to the UK companies only.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Overdrafts (UK) 6.5 4.8
Revolving credit facility (UK) – 7.8
Term loan (UK) 4.5 0.8
Overdrafts and other loans  
(non-UK) 12.7 6.1
Invoice financing facility (UK) 13.0 13.0
36.7 32.5
Amount of facility undrawn  
at year-end 15.6 10.2
During the year we replaced the £7.8m revolving credit 
facility in the UK with a mixture of a new €5m three year term 
loan and €8m overdraft facility provided directly to Headway 
in Germany by HSBC. A new £4.5m term loan from HSBC 
was taken out to part-fund the purchase of Pharmaceutical 
Strategies in October 2015, with the old term loan that was 
due to end in 2016 being repaid early as part of the renewal 
and increase in overdraft facility in the UK. 
Group net debt decreased to £7.3m at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £9.8m), as detailed below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 7.7 7.8
Overdraft facilities (2.3) (2.4)
Invoice financing (6.9) (8.1)
Bank loans (5.8) (7.1)
Total  
net debt (7.3) (9.8)
 TOTAL NET DEBT
11 13 12 14 15
15.7
14.5
15.2
9.8
7.3
26
% Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
26
STRATEGIC REPORT – FINANCE REVIEW
The Group had to meet certain bank covenant tests on a 
quarterly basis under the terms of the old revolving credit 
facility. These were removed when the facility was replaced, 
although the new term loan taken out in the year has 
reinstated two covenants. The first test point was at  
31 December 2015 and the figures are shown below:
Covenant Target 2015
Net debt: EBITDA < 3.0 times 0.7
Debt service cover > 1.25 times 3.1
Interest rate risk
The Group’s bank facilities are subject to floating interest 
rates. This is expected to match the interest costs with the 
economic cycle (eg when interest rates are higher there 
is typically better economic growth and so for a cyclical 
industry such as recruitment, profits should be greater 
when the economy is performing positively). The majority 
of facilities are used to fund specific working capital 
requirements for temporary recruitment businesses. During 
a downturn there is typically an unwinding of working capital 
as trade receivables are collected, so reducing the financing 
requirement and subsequent interest cost.
Within the UK Group the majority of bank accounts are 
included in a cash pooling arrangement. An interest 
optimisation model allows currency balances (including 
overdrafts) to be included within the cash pooling 
arrangement. With interest income not generally paid on 
current accounts, the Group aims to minimise the external 
interest cost by repatriating surplus funds from around the 
Group to minimise the use of the overdraft facilities.
Finance costs were £0.6 million (2014: £0.6 million), which 
primarily related to interest payable on invoice discounting, 
bank loans and overdrafts. The effective interest rate for 
bank facilities for the year was 2.8% (2014: 3.4%).
Foreign exchange risk
There was a foreign exchange gain of £161,000  
(2014: loss of £11,000).
The Group remains open to translation risk from reporting 
overseas results in Sterling. We do not actively hedge this 
exposure, with the diversity of operations across different 
countries providing an element of natural hedge. 
During the year we were negatively impacted by adverse 
movements in exchange rates on the translation of Group 
results, the largest detailed below:
Currency
Decline in value versus Sterling 
in the year using average rates 
(P&L) 
Japanese Yen 6%
Indonesian Rupiah 5%
Australian Dollar 11%
Euro 11%
Chilean Peso 6%
Credit risk
The main credit risks arise through the use of different banks 
across the Group and on the Group’s trade receivables. 
The credit ratings of the banks used within the Group are 
monitored with a target that no more than 10% of Group 
cash is held in banks with a rating below BBB (Fitch rating) or 
equivalent. This target was fully met throughout the year.
Debtor days are reviewed monthly with high balances 
followed up with local management. Average debtor days for 
the Group in 2015 were 51 (2014: 52), with a year-end balance 
of 52 (2014: 51 days). The debtor days in UAE remain higher 
than the Group average. Progress on reducing this has been 
slower than expected during 2015.
AVERAGE DEBTOR DAYS PER YEAR
11 13 12 14 15
52
51
50
52
51
00
%
CASHFLOW
Net debt decreased by £2.5m in the year to £7.3m (2014: 
£9.8m). The main areas of expenditure were on business 
investments and purchasing shares in existing subsidiaries, 
which was a net £6.3m, partly funded by an issue of new 
equity and additional bank facilities. Dividend payments 
were £0.3m, there was a net funding of working capital of 
£0.7m and the net tax and interest payment was £2.3m.
Finance review continued Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27
INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSALS
During the year, the Group made the following investments 
and purchases of shares in subsidiaries held by minority 
shareholders:
• 10% of PT Monroe Consulting Group (Indonesia) for cash 
consideration of £0.3m, taking the Group’s total interest  
to 90%.
• 9% of Mansion House Limited (UK) for cash consideration 
of £0.1m, taking the Group’s total shareholding to 67%. 
• In October 2015, 100% of the shares in Pharmaceutical 
Strategies, a USA healthcare recruiter based in Boston, 
for an initial cash payment of $7.3m (approximately £4.8 
million). Further payments are contingent on the results 
for the twelve months ended 31 December 2015, 2016 
and 2017, with £3.3m recognised in the accounts at year-
end. Following this purchase the CEO acquired equity in 
the company in line with our philosophy of management 
holding equity in the businesses they are responsible for.
The Group received £0.1m in deferred consideration from 
the disposal made in 2013 of the Bar 2 payroll business  
and the disposals of Metis in January 2015 and GiT in  
March 2015. 
There was also a deferred consideration payment of £0.5m 
for the purchase of 75% of the shares of Ball and Hoolahan 
Limited in September 2015. This represented the maximum 
amount payable under the Sale and Purchase Agreement.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
As part of our business model management can hold non-
controlling interests in Group subsidiaries. As these interests 
are purchased they are typically replaced by ‘second 
generation’ equity. There is no obligation on Empresaria to 
acquire these shares but management shareholders have 
certain opportunities to offer their shares for sale.
Based on the results for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
the total value of all non-controlling interests, if purchased in 
2016 using the valuation mechanism in existing shareholder 
agreements would total £3.6 million, ignoring any discounts 
applying to early transfers of shares.
In some instances the consideration payable under the 
shareholders agreement for second generation equity may 
be greater than the fair value of the shares under IFRS 
13. Based on the results for the year ended 31 December 
2015, the value in excess of fair value of all non-controlling 
interests, if purchased in 2016 using the valuation 
mechanism in existing shareholder agreements would 
total £1.3 million, ignoring any discounts applying to early 
transfers of shares.
Any consideration in excess of this fair value of the non-
controlling interest is recognised as a charge in the income 
statement. These amounts are included as adjusting items 
when presenting the adjusted operating profit, adjusted 
profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share. There 
have not been any such charges in 2015 (2014: £Nil).
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There were no post balance sheet events.
GOING CONCERN
The Board has undertaken a recent and thorough review 
of the Group’s budget, forecasts and associated risks and 
sensitivities. The Group’s UK and German overdraft facilities 
were renewed in February 2016 for a further 12 months. 
Given the business forecasts and early trading performance, 
the Group is expected to be able to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of 
at least twelve months from the date of approval of the 
accounts. As a result, the going concern basis continues to 
be appropriate in preparing the financial statements. Further 
details on going concern are found in note 1.
This Strategic report was approved by the Board on  
1 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by:
By order of the Board
Joost Kreulen  Spencer Wreford
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
1 March 2016 28
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – BOARD OF DIRECTORS
5. 4.
Board of Directors
1. 3. 2. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  ANTHONY MARTIN  
(CHAIRMAN) 
Appointed: July 2004 
Committee Membership: None
Skills & experience
Anthony has over 30 years experience of 
running international specialist staffing 
companies. He served as Chairman and 
CEO of Select Appointments (Holdings) 
Plc from 1992 to 1999 when he became 
Vice Chairman and member of the Board 
of Management of Vedior NV, the world’s 
third largest staffing services group. In 
August 2000 he assumed the role of 
Chairman and CEO, which he served until 
his retirement in February 2004. Anthony 
held the position of Executive Chairman 
at Corporate Services Group until 
standing down in September 2007. 
Other key external appointments
None.
JOOST KREULEN  
(CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER) 
Appointed: January 2012 
Committee Membership: None
Skills & experience
Joost has nearly 30 years experience 
of working in the staffing sector. He has 
been with Empresaria since 2009. He 
was initially responsible for its Asian 
operations and more recently also for a 
number of its UK based businesses. He 
was appointed Chief Operating Officer 
and Chief Executive Officer designate 
on 7 September 2011. Prior to joining 
Empresaria, Joost had spent 20 years 
working in various roles for businesses 
which now form part of Randstad N.V., 
most recently as head of specialist 
staffing operations in the Netherlands.
Other key external appointments
None.
SPENCER WREFORD  
(GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR) 
Appointed: May 2010 
Committee Membership: None
Skills & experience 
Spencer has over 10 years’ experience 
in senior finance roles, particularly 
with international businesses in the 
services sector. He joined Empresaria 
from BPP Group, where he was the 
Finance Director of the BPP Professional 
Education division, a provider of 
international professional training. Prior 
to this he spent 8 years at ITE Group 
Plc, the international conference and 
exhibition organising group, as Deputy 
Finance Director, during which time he 
also spent six months as Acting Group 
Finance Director. Spencer is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of England & Wales, qualifying with 
Arthur Andersen. 
Other key external appointments
None.
PENNY FREER  
(NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR) 
Appointed: December 2005 
Committee Membership: 
Remuneration Committee (Chairman), 
Nomination Committee (Chairman),  
Audit Committee
Skills & experience
Penny has worked in investment banking 
for over 25 years. She is a partner of 
London Bridge Capital, a corporate 
finance advisory firm. Until 2004 Penny 
was Head of Equity Capital Markets 
at Robert W Baird and from 2004 to 
2005, Deputy Chairman of Robert W 
Baird Limited. Prior to this she was 
Head of Small/Mid Cap Equities for 
Credit Lyonnais. Together with Zach 
Miles, Penny performs the role of Senior 
Independent Director.
Other key external appointments
Senior Independent Director, Advanced 
Medical Solutions plc; Non-Executive 
Director, Crown Place VCT plc.
ZACH MILES  
(NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR) 
Appointed: October 2008 
Committee Membership: 
Audit Committee (Chairman), 
Remuneration Committee,  
Nomination Committee
Skills & experience
Zach has 27 years experience working in 
the staffing sector, as a Finance Director, 
CEO and Chairman. Before joining 
Empresaria Zach held the position of 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
of Vedior N.V. He was a member of the 
Board of Management from 1999, and 
Chairman since February 2004. Before 
joining Vedior, Zach was CFO and a 
member of the Board of Directors of 
Select Appointments (Holdings) Plc. His 
career in the recruitment industry began 
in 1988. He was formerly a partner in the 
international accountancy firm Arthur 
Andersen and is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant. Together with Penny 
Freer, Zach performs the role of Senior 
Independent Director.
Other key external appointments
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of  
The Abbeyfield Kent Society.
5. 4.
1. 3. 2. GOVERNANCE – PAGE TITLE
30
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Empresaria believes that corporate and social responsibility is an important part of the Group’s culture and looks to adopt 
good practice in these areas. The Board gives due consideration to risks arising from social, environmental and ethical 
issues as part of its ongoing risk review process.
SOCIAL INTERACTION
Empresaria’s business is all about finding people jobs and so helping them develop their careers. This is important to 
enable people to provide for themselves and their families and we aim to provide candidates with the best possible service. 
As a diversified international business, we recognise the importance of working in a culturally sensitive way with local 
communities and follow non-discriminatory employment policies. We encourage the employment of local nationals at all 
levels in the Group. Outside of the UK, 94% of staff working in the Group are local nationals.
Employees are selected and promoted on the basis of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual 
orientation or disability.
The Group recognises the need to provide a safe working environment for its staff and clients. Each office is responsible for 
ensuring that their business operates in compliance with Group policies and local health and safety legislation.
The Group operates an employee exchange programme which allows staff to spend between a week and a month working 
in an office of another Group company in another country, to learn how their business operates and to swap ideas and best 
practice. So far five brands have participated in this programme, helping to incentivise and reward their staff.
The Group communicates with staff by providing regular group news through a quarterly newsletter. News is also made 
available on its intranet site which stores key Group policies and procedures.
The Group and senior management are supportive of staff working with their local communities and charitable concerns. 
ETHICS
The Group actively promotes integrity in its dealings with employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers and the 
authorities of the countries in which it operates. Empresaria recognises that its reputation is a valuable asset gained over a 
long period.
The Group promotes high ethical standards in carrying on its business activities and has a Code of Conduct for dealing with 
gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud and the use of inside information. All staff must comply with the laws and regulations of 
the country in which they operate.
The Group aims to provide a high-quality service to clients and candidates alike and seeks to build strong and lasting 
relationships with both parties. The Group ensures that advertising and public communications avoid untruths or 
overstatements. Empresaria builds relationships with suppliers based on mutual trust and undertakes to pay suppliers on 
time and in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Group builds relationships with candidates based on trust and quality of service. It recognises that information about 
candidates is sensitive and confidential and must be kept securely and not disclosed without a candidate’s permission.
ENVIRONMENT
Whilst it is recognised that the Group operates in a business sector that has a low environmental impact, the Group remains 
committed to minimising its impact on the environment. The Group is aware that this is an area of increasing importance to 
employees, shareholders and customers alike. The Group is not involved in the manufacture of any tangible products and 
has identified the principal areas of environmental impact as energy use, waste recycling, paper and printing and travel. 
The Group encourages the recycling of office waste and waste paper and has seen a continued reduction in the use of 
printed materials around the Group by increasingly relying on electronic media for its primary marketing activity. The full 
Annual Report is also provided to the majority of shareholders in an electronic format to further reduce our printing costs 
and environmental impact, with a much smaller summary report sent to all shareholders.
As an internationally diverse group we recognise that some travel is inevitable and necessary for the effective management 
of the business, however, full use is made of telephonic conference facilities and working from home to minimise this as far 
as is practical.
Corporate social responsibility STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE
Directors’ report
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of Empresaria Group plc, together with the financial statements and 
auditor’s report, for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Corporate governance statement set out on pages 35 to 40 
forms part of this report.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There have not been any significant events since the balance sheet date. An indication of likely future developments in the 
business of the Group is included in the Strategic report.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Group is given in note 22.
DIVIDENDS
For the year ended 31 December 2015 the Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share of 5 pence in the 
Company (‘ordinary share’) to be paid on 31 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 6 May 2016. For the year ended  
31 December 2014 a final dividend was paid of 0.70p per ordinary share on 12 June 2015. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital during the 
year are shown in note 21. The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income. Each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’) and prevailing legislation. The Directors are 
not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
ISSUE AND ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANY’S OWN SHARES
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders’ resolutions dated 20 May 2015, as follows:
Resolution
Resolution 
number
Number  
of shares
Number of shares issued or 
purchased under the authority 
as at the date of the report
Issue shares  
(1/3 of issued share capital plus additional) 9(a) 17,411,782 4,456,285
Issue shares by way of rights issue  
(2/3 of issued share capital) 9(b) 29,708,565 –
Purchase through the market  
(5% of issued share capital) 11 2,228,142 –
All authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting or 31 July 2016. 
DETAILS OF EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
In 2008, shareholder approval was obtained for a Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) for the issue of share options in the 
Company to Directors and senior executives. During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company approved the vesting 
of awards granted in the form of nil cost options (‘Awards’) over ordinary shares in relation to Awards granted to the executive 
directors on 28 September 2011. Details of all Awards made and vested under the LTIP can be found in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 44 to 48 and in note 28. GOVERNANCE – PAGE TITLE
32
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Directors’ report continued
DIRECTORS’ AND THEIR INTERESTS
The Directors had the following interests in the Company’s share capital:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Number of  
ordinary shares
Percentage 
 holding
Number of  
ordinary shares
Percentage  
holding
Executive Directors
Joost Kreulen (Chief Executive Officer) 60,000 0.12% 60,000 0.13%
Spencer Wreford (Group Finance Director) 15,000 0.03% 15,000 0.03%
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony Martin (Chairman) 13,924,595 28.41% 12,924,595 29.00%
Penny Freer 15,000 0.03% 15,000 0.03%
Zach Miles – 0.00% – 0.00%
Total 14,014,595 28.59% 13,014,595 29.21%
No Director had any interest(s) in the share capital of any other Group company. 
During the period between 31 December 2015 and 1 March 2016, no changes took place in the above interests.
DIRECTOR CHANGES
There were no changes in Directors during the year.
APPOINTMENT, RETIREMENT AND REPLACEMENTS OF DIRECTORS
The Company is governed by the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation and the AIM Rules. The Board of 
Directors of the Company (the ‘Board’) support and comply with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’) that all Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years. The Articles require that a third of the 
Directors retire by rotation each year. The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Spencer Wreford will retire by rotation and submit himself for re-election, having been 
last appointed by shareholders on 23 May 2013.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found on pages 28 and 29.
DIRECTORS’ POWERS
The Directors’ powers are conferred on them by the Articles and applicable legislation. Further details can be found in the 
Corporate governance statement on pages 35 to 40. 
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
The Group has made no qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors during the year.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
The Group did not make any political donations during the year (2014: nil).  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 31 December 2015, excluding the Directors, the following interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital 
in the register maintained under the provision of section 113 of the Companies Act 2006 were identified:
Name of holder
Number of  
ordinary shares
Percentage 
holding 
Liontrust Asset Management 4,373,468 8.92%
Hendrik M. van Heijst 2,400,000 4.90%
M W R Hunt (former Director) 2,355,586 4.81%
City Financial Investments 2,200,000 4.49%
T J D Sheffield (former Director) 1,716,307 3.50%
During the period between 31 December 2015 and 1 March 2016, the Company did not receive any notifications under 
chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to change the above interests.
DISABLED EMPLOYEES
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment 
with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees. 
EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on 
matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group. This is achieved 
through formal and informal meetings, a quarterly newsletter to all staff, the Group’s website and intranet. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING
The regulations concerning the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions do not apply to the Company.
AUDITOR
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware  
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company and a resolution to reappoint 
them will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board:
James Chapman
Company Secretary
1 March 2016
Old Church House 
Sandy Lane 
Crawley Down 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 4HS 34
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union and the AIM rules and have chosen to prepare the 
parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK accounting standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group’s financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website (empresaria.com). Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; 
2. the Strategic report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and
3. the annual report and financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s position, performance, business model 
and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board on 
1 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by:
By order of the Board
Joost Kreulen  Spencer Wreford
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
1 March 2016
Directors’ responsibilities statement STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Since listing on AIM in late 2004, the Group has developed and grown in line with its strategic aims, significantly increasing 
its geographical and sector spread. The Board recognises that with this growth comes the need to provide a sound 
framework of corporate governance. The Board is therefore committed to the continued review, implementation and 
development of corporate governance practices, which will help support the Group businesses as the Board continues  
to deliver its strategic objectives for the benefit of shareholders over the longer term.
Corporate governance codes
The Board seeks to follow best practice in corporate governance appropriate with the size of the Company, the regulatory 
framework that applies to AIM companies and to best align the level of corporate governance with the expectations of the 
Company’s shareholders, clients, employees and other stakeholders. The Board recognises the importance of adopting 
good corporate governance practices in the best interests of all shareholders. 
Although the Company is not required to report on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), since 
its shares are traded on the AIM market, the Company applies the principles of the Code as outlined in this statement. 
The Board continues to review updates to the principles and provisions of the Code and considers and implements (where 
necessary) any changes to Corporate Governance practices as a result of new provisions as and when they arise.
OVERVIEW
Corporate governance statement
‘The Board recognises that  
with growth comes the need  
to provide a sound framework  
of corporate governance’
Leadership
Accountability
The Board continues to challenge the strategy and 
performance of the Group to ensure the advancement  
of shareholders’ interests.
This section provides information on the division of 
responsibilities of the Board, that enable it to provide effective 
direction to the Group and ensure efficient management of 
the Group’s operations.
The Board is responsible for identifying and managing  
any significant risks to the Group arising out of the  
Group’s strategy.
This section provides information on the approval process 
for reporting to the Board, the systems employed to 
manage risks and other internal control procedures.
The balance of skills, experience and independence of the 
Directors and their knowledge of the Group is regularly 
monitored by the Board.
This section provides information on the annual review of the 
independence of Directors and any conflicts of interest. It also 
details the development activities undertaken by, and support 
provided to, Directors in order for them effectively to carry out 
their duties.
The Company’s remuneration policies are regularly assessed 
by the Board, to ensure that they remain fair and responsible. 
This section provides information on the Company’s 
remuneration policies and practices.
The Board holds regular events to maintain an open dialogue 
with investors. 
This section provides information on the provision of 
information to, and other communications with both existing 
and potential new shareholders, to convey the Group’s 
performance, strategy and objectives.
Effectiveness
Remuneration
Relations with Shareholders 36
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
36
Corporate governance statement continued
LEADERSHIP 
The role of the Board
The Company is controlled through the Board, which has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees  
(the ‘Committees’), to which it delegates clearly defined powers. The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Company. The Board and Committees are composed as follows:
Name Independence Tenure as board director *
Anthony Martin Non-independent 11 years 5 months
Penny Freer Independent 10 years
Zach Miles Independent 7 years 3 months
Joost Kreulen 4 years
Spencer Wreford 5 years 7 months
* to 31 December 2015
Board of Directors
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee
Protecting and advancing shareholders’ interests, providing overall direction for 
the Group and maintaining a framework of delegated authorities and controls.
• Anthony Martin, Chairman
• Penny Freer, Joint Senior Independent Director
• Zach Miles, Joint Senior Independent Director
• Joost Kreulen, Chief Executive Officer 
• Spencer Wreford, Group Finance Director
Monitors and reviews the integrity 
of financial statements, oversees 
the relationship with the external 
auditors and has oversight for 
internal control and risk. 
See the Audit Committee report on 
pages 41 to 43.
• Zach Miles, Chairman
• Penny Freer
Monitors and reviews the structure, 
size and composition of the 
Board and considers succession 
planning, to ensure the right skills 
and expertise are maintained for 
effective management. 
See the Nomination Committee 
report on page 49.
• Penny Freer, Chairman
• Zach Miles
Considers and sets remuneration 
policy for executive Directors and 
the Chairman and monitors the level 
and structure of remuneration for 
senior management.
See the Remuneration Committee 
report on pages 44 to 48.
• Penny Freer, Chairman
• Zach Miles STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  37
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for consideration by the Board (‘Schedule of Matters Reserved’) which 
includes responsibility for the following: 
• approval of overall Group strategy and objectives;
• approval of the Group annual budget and monitoring progress towards its achievement;
• changes to the Group’s capital structure;
• changes to the Group’s principal activities;
• review and approval of the annual financial statements;
• changes to the senior management structure;
• approval of Group financing arrangements and treasury policy;
• approval of major investments, disposals and additional investments in existing operations; and
• approval of major unbudgeted expenditure.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved is reviewed by the Board annually to ensure it remains appropriate and complete. The 
Board also reviews annually an approved schedule of operational matters, which are delegated to operational management.
The terms of reference for each of the Committees are available to view on the Company’s website (empresaria.com).  
Details of the work carried out by the Committees can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 41 to 43,  
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 48 and Nomination Committee report on page 49.
During the year, the number of meetings of the Board and Committees and individual attendance by the members  
were as follows:
Main  
Board*
Audit  
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Anthony Martin 10/10 – – –
Joost Kreulen 10/10 – – –
Spencer Wreford 10/10 – – –
Penny Freer 10/10 5/5 3/3 1/1
Zach Miles 10/10 5/5 3/3 1/1
*  The Board held 7 scheduled meetings in the year which were attended by all Directors. There were also 3 meetings outside the normal course of events,  
which were each attended by all Directors.
Division of responsibilities
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, with no one individual  
having unfettered powers of decision. The statement of division of responsibilities can be found on the Company’s  
website (empresaria.com).
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for 
implementing Group strategy.
The Chairman
The Board is led by the Chairman. The Chairman has not been considered as independent from the date of his appointment, 
due to his significant shareholding in the Company. 
All meetings have a pre-agreed formal agenda setting out those matters for discussion, together with supporting papers. 
Time is allocated at all meetings to discuss any other business, which all directors are invited by the Chairman to raise. 
Non-Executive Directors
Directors’ biographies can be found on pages 28 to 29. The Board believe that both Zach Miles and Penny Freer continue to 
be independent. 
All Non-Executive Directors participate in strategy development and decisions required to implement actions to progress 
towards meeting the objectives of the Company. The Board last conducted a review of the Group’s strategy during 2015. 38
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
EFFECTIVENESS
Composition of the Board
The Board has a balance and depth of skills and experience, together with suitable knowledge of the Group, to enable  
them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. Biographies of the Directors can be found on  
pages 28 to 29.
Conflicts of interest of all Directors are reviewed on an annual basis and Directors have continuing obligations to update the 
Board on any changes to these conflicts. Situations which may create a conflict of interest are presented to the Board for 
review and approval as appropriate.
Independence
The independence of all Non-Executive Directors is reviewed on an annual basis, with reference to their independence of 
character and judgement and whether any circumstances or relationships exist that could affect their judgement. The review 
of independence is also considered in relation to Committee memberships in line with recommendations of the Code. The 
Board considers that Penny Freer and Zach Miles continue to remain independent. For Penny Freer, who has served for 10 
years as a director, the Board note in particular her skills and external experience as well as her involvement and insight in 
Board meetings and considers that her period of service does not affect her independence. Penny holds a shareholding in 
the Company but the Board considers this to be highly immaterial and considers that this does not affect her independence. 
The Chairman, Anthony Martin, is considered to remain non-independent due to his significant shareholding in the Company.
Appointments to the Board
A Nomination Committee is in place to review the appointment of new Directors. No new Directors have been appointed 
since the Committee was formed. 
Details of the work of the Nomination Committee can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 49.
Commitment
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment, which are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
The annual time commitments are as follows:
• Chairman – not less than 25 days
• Non-Executive Directors – not less than 20 days
Although additional days were served by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during 2015, the time commitments 
were reviewed by the Nomination Committee, which was satisfied with the current letters of appointment. During 2015, 
Anthony Martin served 11 additional days, Penny Freer served 6 additional days and Zach Miles served 2.5 additional days.
Neither Executive Director holds any external Non-Executive Director role.
Development
All Directors determine the training requirements appropriate to their role and the needs of the Company’s business. 
Examples of events attended include the attendance by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the annual Staffing 
Industry Analysts Executive Forum in the USA, with the Chairman also attending the Forum in London. The Chief Executive 
Officer undertook independent PR training. The Chairman of the Audit Committee has attended seminars on Governance, 
Risk and Internal Assurance. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attended several seminars delivered by Deloitte 
LLP on audit, corporate governance, remuneration and succession planning as well as attending one on one sessions with 
industry experts at a specialist remuneration consultancy. Developments in corporate governance are reported to the Board 
by the Company Secretary.
It has not been deemed necessary to formalise a training and development programme for each Director.
Corporate governance statement continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
39 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Information and support
Prior to the beginning of each year, Board meetings are scheduled in line with the key financial reporting dates. A more 
detailed agenda, together with the Board papers, is distributed in a timely manner before each Board meeting. All Directors 
receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues to enable informed decisions to be taken 
by them at the Board meetings. Any specific actions arising during meetings are agreed by the Board and a follow-up 
procedure monitors their completion. Monthly financial and operational reviews are distributed to the Board, irrespective of 
whether a scheduled meeting is to take place. This assists the Board to keep informed of developments on a regular basis.
The Directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
Evaluation
The Board has considered the benefits from undertaking formal evaluations of its performance and those of its Committees 
and individual Directors. Formal Executive Director performance evaluations are conducted annually in preparation for the 
review and approval of the annual remuneration packages. Each Non-Executive Director’s performance is evaluated as an 
outcome of the formal performance evaluations of the Committee(s) of which they are a member.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees oversee an annual self-evaluation process, which is used by the Board and by 
each Committee to determine their effectiveness and opportunities for improvement. Further details of the Committee 
performance reviews can be found in the Audit Committee report as set out on pages 41 to 43 and the Directors’ 
remuneration report as set out on pages 44 to 48.
The Board considers that the evaluation of the Executive Directors and the Committees provides an appropriate review 
of each Director’s performance in relation to their specific roles. A formal evaluation of Board performance has not been 
deemed necessary due to the size and composition of the Board.
Re-election
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years. Any Directors 
appointed to the Board during the year will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following 
their appointment. In accordance with the Articles, one third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, Joost Kreulen, Penny Freer and Zach Miles were re-elected to the Board. At the 
2016 Annual General Meeting, Spencer Wreford will retire and offer himself for re-election, having been last appointed by 
shareholders on 23 May 2013.
A summary of the Directors’ appointments by shareholders is provided below:
Director Last appointed by shareholders
Anthony Martin 22 May 2014
Penny Freer 20 May 2015
Zach Miles 20 May 2015
Joost Kreulen 20 May 2015
Spencer Wreford 23 May 2013 40
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
ACCOUNTABILITY
Financial and business reporting
The Board reviews and approves all reports on the Company’s position and prospects to present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy. This includes reports of 
a statutory and regulatory nature, as required by the AIM rules, which are of a price-sensitive nature.
Risk management and internal control 
Risk management remains the responsibility of the Board. The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility to keep 
under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls and internal control and risk 
management system.
The Board has identified and evaluated the significant risks faced by the Group for the delivery of the Group strategy. The 
Board has agreed how each risk is to be addressed and the necessary actions to be taken. Details of the principle risks 
identified are set out in the Strategic report on pages 20 to 23. 
The Audit Committee meets specifically to review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems and to review the Group and subsidiary risks identified and progress of actions taken to manage the risks. Following 
the review, progress and actions are reported to the Board. A separate Audit Committee report is set out on pages 41 to 43 
and provides details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the external auditor.
REMUNERATION
The level and components of remuneration and procedure
A separate Directors’ remuneration report is set out on pages 44 to 48 and provides details of the remuneration policy, level 
and components of remuneration and procedure for fixing the individual remuneration packages of individual Directors.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Dialogue with shareholders
The Directors seek to maintain a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its shareholders by:
• making annual and interim presentations to institutional investors, which are made available to all shareholders on the 
Company’s website (empresaria.com);
• meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtain their views; and
• communicating regularly during the year.
Relations with shareholders are managed principally by the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director. The views 
of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole through regular Board meetings and communication between 
meetings. Although primary responsibility for effective communication with shareholders lies with the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors prepare presentations for analysts and institutional investors following the interim and preliminary announcements.
During the year, the Executive Directors conducted several video presentations, which are available on the Company’s 
website (empresaria.com). On 27 August 2015, the Company appointed Arden Partners plc as its Nominated Adviser and 
Broker. In connection with the successful placing of ordinary shares and the acquisition of Pharmaceutical Strategies, in 
October 2015 the Executive Directors attended an institutional roadshow. 
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with shareholders. Shareholders are encouraged 
to participate in the Annual General Meetings, at which the Chairman presents updates on the Group’s performance. The 
Board, together with the Chairmen of the Committees, will be available at the 2016 Annual General Meeting to answer 
questions from shareholders.
GOVERNANCE – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Corporate governance statement continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
41 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  ROLE AND COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company, review the adequacy of internal control and risk management systems and oversee the relationship with the 
external auditor. The terms of reference for the Audit Committee can be found on the Company’s website (empresaria.com). 
The Audit Committee make whatever recommendations to the Board it deems appropriate, on any area within its remit, 
where action or improvement is needed.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, with a 
minimum requirement of two such Directors, one of whom should be a financially qualified member. Appointments to the 
Committee are made by the Board and are for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for further periods of 
up to three years, provided the director still meets the criteria for membership of the committee. The independent Non-
Executive Directors who served on the Committee during the year are:
Name
Date of appointment to 
the Committee Qualification
Zach Miles (Chairman) 1 October 2008 Chartered accountant
Penny Freer 2 November 2011
Directors’ biographies can be found on pages 28 to 29.
MEETINGS
The Audit Committee is required to meet formally twice per year. During 2015, the Committee held 5 formal meetings, 
which were scheduled around the financial reporting timetable. Since the beginning of 2016 to the date of this report the 
Committee has met twice to fulfil its responsibilities including those relating to the 2015 audit process.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director and senior representatives of the external auditor to attend all of its 
meetings, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw from the meeting.
Audit Committee report
‘The Audit Committee monitors 
the integrity of the financial 
statements, internal controls and 
risk management systems and 
oversees the relationship with  
the external auditor’ 42
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITY
Financial and business reporting
Since the beginning of 2015 to the date of this report, the Audit Committee has reviewed the 2014 and 2015 financial 
statements, the 2015 interim statement (unaudited) and carried out a going concern review. Reviews of the financial 
statements included the accounting policies, significant financial reporting issues and key judgements and estimates 
underpinning the financial statements, including:
• going concern;
• carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and investments; 
• accounting for investments and disposals;
• appropriateness of provision balances; 
• tax accounting, including deferred tax assets value; and
• contingent consideration, 
For going concern and the carrying value of goodwill and investments, the Committee examined the assumptions supporting 
the Group’s profit and cash flow forecasts and the sensitivities applied to those forecasts, the banking facilities available and 
the assessment of the Group’s covenant compliance based on the forecasts. Details of the matters reviewed are included in 
note 14.
For the other key judgements and estimates, the Committee was satisfied with the assumptions made and the accounting 
treatments adopted.
Risk management and internal control
Risk management is the responsibility of the Board. Further details about the process followed and principal risks  
and uncertainties that could affect business operations can be found in the Strategic report on pages 20 to 23. The 
Audit Committee keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk 
management systems.
Due to the size of the Group, and the costs involved, the Audit Committee continues to recommend to the Board that  
there is no requirement for a separate internal audit function; however, for 2016, the Audit Committee has approved for  
an independent audit firm to conduct testing of internal controls for the Group’s UK subsidiaries. If this trial is successful, the 
Committee will review whether to roll it out across the Group.
A review of the internal controls for each Group company is performed each year with the findings presented to the Audit 
Committee. This is currently managed by the Group Finance Director, assisted by the regional financial controllers. During 
2015, the Audit Committee proposed changes to the format of internal control reporting to simplify the actions taken and to 
monitor actions. A report now summarises the key issues identified and how they have been resolved. 
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s treasury policy, which was approved by the Board. The Audit 
Committee also reviewed the Group’s risk framework reports, which were then presented to and discussed by the Board. 
The Group’s whistle blowing policy contains arrangements for the Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints 
on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters. 
The Group has a mandatory Code of Conduct, which sets out the minimum expected behaviours for all employees. A copy 
of this can be found on the Company’s website (empresaria.com).
Audit Committee report continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
43 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  External audit
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Group’s policy on external 
audit. The terms of reference assigns responsibility to the Audit Committee for overseeing the relationship with the external 
auditor. During 2015, the Audit Committee has continued to manage the relationship with the external auditor including in 
relation to the 2014 and 2015 Audit Committee reports.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor. The Group’s policy on 
non-audit related services prescribes the types of engagements for which the external auditor can be used and those 
engagements which are prohibited. For engagement for services which are non-recurring in nature, prior approval must be 
sought from the Audit Committee.
Note 7 includes disclosure of the auditor’s remuneration for the year, including an analysis of audit services, audit related 
services and other non-audit services under those headings prescribed by law. 
Deloitte LLP was first appointed as the Company’s auditor in October 2002. Following an external tender process during 
2013 Deloitte LLP was re-appointed for the 2014 and 2015 audits, resulting in tenure of 13 years. 
Following completion of the 2015 audit process, the Audit Committee is satisfied with the performance of Deloitte LLP and 
has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
Assessment of the Audit Committee
Following completion of the 2015 audit process, the Audit Committee conducted a self-assessment of its performance 
during the year. The evaluation process measured performance against its terms of reference including:
• presentation of compliance reports by the Compliance Officer;
• review and implementation of risk management processes by subsidiaries;
• ongoing, regular reviews of internal controls; and
• monitoring developments in corporate governance and compliance.
The Board concluded that the Audit Committee has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and had ensured the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 2016 Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about 
the work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Zach Miles
Chairman of the Audit Committee
1 March 2016 44
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE – DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
The Board has considered the principles of Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006 and 
has complied where practical and where it supports the Board’s policies. This Directors’ remuneration report meets the 
relevant requirements of the AIM rules and describes how the Board has applied, where appropriate, the principles relating 
to Directors’ remuneration in the Code. 
A resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration report will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 
The Companies Act 2016 requires the auditor to report to the Company’s members on certain parts of the Directors’ 
remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Accounting Regulations. The Directors’ remuneration report has therefore been divided into separate 
sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Role and composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for setting the remuneration policy for all 
Executive Directors and the Company’s Chairman and recommending and monitoring the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management. The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee can be found on the 
Company’s website (empresaria.com). 
The Remuneration Committee is required to report to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting on all matters  
within its duties and responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board from the independent Non-Executive Directors, with a minimum 
requirement of two such Directors. No Director is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
The independent Non-Executive Directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year were:
Name Date of appointment to the Committee
Penny Freer (Chairman) 13 December 2005
Zach Miles 1 October 2008
Meetings
The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at such times as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shall 
require. During 2015, the Remuneration Committee held 3 formal meetings. The Chairman of the Company has been invited 
to attend meetings where appropriate. Since the beginning of 2016 to the date of this report the Remuneration Committee 
has met once to determine and approve the extent of annual bonus payable based on achievement of 2015 targets and to 
consider making new Awards.
Remuneration practices
The Remuneration Committee recommended and monitored the level and structure of remuneration for senior management 
as well as monitoring remuneration trends across the Group. A review was carried out on the ongoing appropriateness and 
relevance of the remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee determined the 2016 individual remuneration packages, targets for annual bonus scheme and 
pension arrangements for the Executive Directors and the 2016 fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
Directors’ remuneration report
‘The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for setting the remuneration 
policy for all Executive Directors and 
Chairman and recommending and 
monitoring the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management’ STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
45 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Remuneration policy for the Executive Directors
Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, retain, motivate and reward Executive Directors whilst aligning 
rewards with the business objectives and performance and the interests of shareholders. 
Link between business objectives and remuneration policy
It is the Company’s policy for performance-related pay of Executive Directors to be linked to key performance indicators of the 
Company. The Company’s key objectives include developing sustainable growth in earnings, through a combination of organic 
growth and investments, alongside a gradual reduction in debt levels. The performance measures chosen to link executive 
remuneration to the achievement of these objectives are growth in earnings per share and cash generated from operations. 
Executive Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with indefinite terms providing for a maximum 
of 12 months’ notice by the Company or the individual. In the event of early termination, the Executive Directors’ contracts 
provide for compensation up to a maximum of the basic salary for the notice period.
The details of the Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below:
Director Effective date of contract Notice period
Chief Executive Officer (Joost Kreulen) 1 January 2012 12 months
Group Finance Director (Spencer Wreford) 4 May 2010 6 months
Basic salary
The basic annual salary of each Executive Director is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee with changes 
taking effect on 1 January. The salaries for the Executive Directors for the financial years beginning on 1 January are  
as follows:
Director
2016
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Chief Executive Officer 216 211 205
Group Finance Director 170 154 150
For 2016 the basic salary for the Chief Executive Officer has increased in line with the rate of inflation. The basic salary for 
the Group Finance Director has increased above the rate of inflation to reflect that a wider role is being performed than that 
of a traditional Group Finance Director.
Pension and other benefits-in-kind
In addition to the basic remuneration payable under the service agreements, each of the Executive Directors is entitled to a 
pension provision and a range of other benefits, including private medical insurance and car allowance. The Company has 
agreed to make contributions into the Executive Directors’ private pension schemes as follows:
• Chief Executive Officer – 15% of basic salary
• Group Finance Director – 10% of basic salary 
Annual bonus
The Remuneration Committee establishes the objectives that must be met for each financial year if a cash bonus is to be 
paid. For the financial years 2015 and 2016 the targets and % of bonus payable for the Executive Directors are summarised 
as follows:
2016 2015
Maximum bonus as % of basic salary 100% 75%
% applied to cash generated from operations 50% 50%
% applied to earnings per share (‘EPS’) 50% 50%
Bonus payable at 80% of target 0% 0%
Bonus payable at 100% of target 50% 50%
Bonus payable at 120% of target 100% 100%
80% of both targets must be met for any bonus to be payable. The entire bonus is payable in cash. 46
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
Annual bonus continued
It has been the intention of the Remuneration Committee to gradually increase the maximum bonus payable from 50% to 
100% of basic salary; A 100% maximum is now in place for 2016.
Based on the delivery against the performance targets for 2015, a bonus is payable at an aggregate rate of 59% of base 
salary (equivalent to 79% of the maximum potential bonus). 
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
In July 2008 the Company gained shareholder approval to introduce a LTIP for the Executive Directors and senior executives 
within the business. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for supervising the scheme and making awards under 
its terms. The maximum value of ordinary shares that could be awarded in the first year is 200% of basic salary and in any 
subsequent year is 100% of basic salary. The current policy is to review the final audited results of the Company prior to 
agreeing if awards are to be made.
Awards under the LTIP
During the year there were no Awards of share options in the Company. The full Awards granted to the executive directors  
on 28 September 2011 have vested but have not been exercised at the time of this report. 
Three LTIP awards have been made up to 31 December 2015. For each award the performance targets are 70% earnings per 
share growth and 30% share price growth. The percentage of awards granted will be in accordance with performance at the 
following levels: 
Performance below the threshold No award
Performance at the threshold level 20% of the relevant part of the award is released 
Performance at the maximum level 100% of the relevant part of the award is released
Between these points there is a straight line release of the award.
A summary of the three LTIP awards, and their qualifying conditions with respect to performance, is as follows:
Date of award 28 September 2011 6 September 2013 12 March 2014
Expected vesting date Vested March 2015 March 2017 March 2018
Number of options granted
Joost Kreulen 720,000 563,380 379,630
Spencer Wreford 500,000 394,366 277,778
Performance targets
1) Earnings per share growth
% of award 70% 70% 70%
Measurement period: 31/12/2011 – 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 – 31/12/2016 31/12/2014 – 31/12/2017
Performance level
Threshold 10% + RPI 10% + RPI 10% + RPI
Maximum 30% + RPI 40% + RPI 30% + RPI
2) Share price growth
% of award 30% 30% 30%
Measurement period: 28/09/2011 – close of 
business on the day following 
announcement of the 
preliminary results for the year 
ended 31 December 2014
06/09/2013 – close of 
business on the day following 
announcement of the 
preliminary results for the year 
ended 31 December 2016
12/03/2014 – close of 
business on the day following 
announcement of the 
preliminary results for the year 
ended 31 December 2017
Performance level
Threshold 10% 50% 50%
Maximum 15% 100% 100%
GOVERNANCE – DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors’ remuneration report continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth is defined as the annual growth in earnings per share over the holding period. 
Share price growth is defined as the absolute share price growth over the holding period from the date of the award to close 
of business on the day following announcement of the preliminary results for the relevant year.
Having reviewed the format of the LTIP and bonus structure during 2015 the Remuneration Committee noted that an award 
under the current LTIP will be considered following the announcement of the 2015 preliminary results.
Shareholding guidelines
There are no requirements for Executive Directors or senior executives to hold shares in the Company. The details of those 
ordinary shares held by Directors can be found in the Directors’ report on pages 31 to 33.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, serve under letters of appointment and either party can terminate on three 
month’s written notice. Their remuneration is determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles and is based on 
information on fees paid in similar companies and the skills and expected time commitment of the individual concerned. 
The fees are reviewed each year as part of the annual budgeting process. The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any 
additional remuneration for chairing Committees. The annual fees for the Non-Executive Directors for the past three financial 
years are as follows:
Name
2016 2015 2014
Base 
salary 
£000
Additional 
fees 
£000
Total
£000
Base 
salary 
£000
Additional 
fees 
£000
Total 
£000
Base 
salary 
£000
Additional 
fees 
£000
Total 
£000
Anthony Martin 61 – 61 59 11 70 58 13 71
Penny Freer 39 – 39 38 6 44 37 4 41
Zach Miles 39 – 39 38 3 40 37 4 41
The amounts for additional fees represent the fees incurred as a result of additional days worked in excess of the number  
of days referred to in the letter of appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) have no right to compensation on the early termination of their 
appointments and do not participate in the LTIP or receive any other benefits. 
Assessment of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee conducted a self-assessment of its performance during the year. The evaluation process 
measured performance against its terms of reference including: 
• LTIP scheme to be reviewed and assessed to look for current best practice and consideration of different  
performance measures; and
• succession planning for Directors and senior executives to be developed.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available at the 2016 Annual General Meeting to answer any  
questions about the work of the Remuneration Committee. 48
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
AUDITED INFORMATION
Aggregate Directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Name of Director
2015 2014
Salary 
and fees 
£000
Benefits 
in kind * 
£000
Annual 
bonuses 
£000
Money 
purchase 
pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
Salary 
and fees 
£000
Benefits 
in kind * 
£000
Annual 
bonuses 
£000
Money 
purchase 
pension 
contributions 
£000
Total
 £000
Executive
Joost Kreulen 211 11 124 32 378 205 11 53 30 299
Spencer Wreford 154 7 91 15 267 150 7 39 15 211
Non-Executive
Anthony Martin * 70 – – – 70 71 – – – 71
Penny Freer * 44 – – – 44 41 – – – 41
Zach Miles * 40 – – – 40 41 – – – 41
799 663
*  Benefits in kind include car allowance and private medical insurance for Spencer Wreford and private medical insurance and travel & accommodation 
costs for Joost Kreulen.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
During the year there were no awards of share options in the Company.
Details of the options for Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Name of Director Date of award
Number  
of options
1 January 
2015 Granted Vested Exercised
31 December 
2015
Joost Kreulen 28/09/11 720,000 720,000 – 720,000 – 720,000
06/09/13 563,380 563,380 – – – 563,380
12/03/14 379,630 379,630 – – – 379,630
Spencer Wreford 28/09/11 500,000 500,000 – 500,000 – 500,000
06/09/13 394,366 394,366 – – – 394,366
12/03/14 277,778 277,778 – – – 277,778
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Penny Freer
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1 March 2016
 
GOVERNANCE – DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors’ remuneration report continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  ROLE AND COMPOSITION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to keep under review the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and the leadership needs of the Group. The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee  
can be found on the Company’s website (empresaria.com). 
The Nomination Committee is required to report to the Board on its proceedings and make recommendations it deems 
appropriate, on any area within its remit, where action or improvement is needed.
The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors, with a minimum requirement of 
two such Directors. Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board and are for a period of up to three years, which 
may be extended for further periods of up to three years, provided the Director still meets the criteria for membership of the 
Committee. The independent Non-Executive Directors who served on the Nomination Committee during the year are:
Name Date of appointment to the Committee
Penny Freer (Chairman) 5 November 2013
Zach Miles 5 November 2013
MEETINGS
The Nomination Committee is required to meet formally once per year. During 2015, the Nomination Committee held  
one formal meeting.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITY
The Nomination Committee focused on a review of its role and responsibilities. 
Composition of the Board and Committees
The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and the Committees. All Directors continue to serve  
in their roles and no compositional changes were proposed by the Nomination Committee.
Succession planning
The Nomination Committee has considered succession planning for emergency situations. A plan has been approved  
by the Board during the year.
Time commitments of Non-Executive Directors
The Nomination Committee continues to keep under review the Non-Executive Directors’ time commitments.
Currently the Board does not have a separate policy or objectives on diversity, including gender. The Nomination Committee, in 
making recommendations to the Board, will give due regard to the benefits of diversity in the board room, including gender.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
Penny Freer
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
1 March 2016
Nomination Committee report
‘ The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for keeping under 
review the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and the 
leadership needs of the Group’ 50
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
We have audited the group financial statements of Empresaria Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which 
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related 
notes 1 to 28. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us 
in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion the group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
OTHER MATTERS
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Empresaria Group plc for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Rob Knight
(Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Crawley, United Kingdom
1 March 2016
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Empresaria Group plc STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
51 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 187.3 187.9 
Cost of sales (138.1) (143.3)
Net fee income 4 49.2 44.6 
Administrative costs (41.2) (38.0)
Operating profit before exceptional items, 
loss on business disposal and intangible amortisation 4 8.0 6.6 
Exceptional items 5 – 0.1 
Loss on business disposal 5 – (0.1)
Intangible amortisation 15 (0.4) (0.2)
Operating profit 4, 7 7.6 6.4 
Finance income 9 0.1 0.1 
Finance costs 9 (0.6) (0.6)
Profit before tax 7.1 5.9 
Tax 10 (2.6) (2.1)
Profit for the year 4.5 3.8 
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent 4.4 3.5 
Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.3 
4.5 3.8 
From continuing operations
Earnings per share:
Basic 12 9.6 7.8 
Diluted 12 9.3 7.5 
Earnings per share (adjusted):
Basic 12 10.2 8.3 
Diluted 12 9.9 8.0
 
Consolidated income statement 52
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
2015
£m
2014
£m
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (0.5) (0.9)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement: 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations of non-controlling interest (0.2) (0.1)
Net expense recognised directly in equity (0.7) (1.0)
Profit for the year 4.5 3.8
Total comprehensive income for the year 3.8 2.8
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 3.9 2.6
Non-controlling interest (0.1) 0.2
3.8 2.8
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
53 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 1.5 1.2 
Goodwill 14 25.2 23.7 
Other intangible assets 15 7.3 2.3 
Deferred tax assets 20 0.9 0.9 
34.9 28.1 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 35.9 34.5 
Cash and cash equivalents 19 7.7 7.8 
43.6 42.3 
Total assets 78.5 70.4 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 24.0 21.9 
Current tax liabilities 3.7 2.7 
Borrowings 19 9.9 11.2 
37.6 35.8 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 5.1 6.4 
Other creditors 18 1.0 – 
Deferred tax liabilities 20 1.1 1.1 
Total non-current liabilities 7.2 7.5 
Total liabilities 44.8 43.3 
Net assets 33.7 27.1 
Equity
Share capital 21 2.4 2.2 
Share premium account 22.4 19.4 
Merger reserve 0.9 0.9 
Retranslation reserve 1.0 1.8 
Equity reserve (7.2) (7.1)
Other reserves (0.6) (1.1)
Retained earnings 11.9 7.8 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 30.8 23.9 
Non-controlling interest 2.9 3.2 
Total equity 33.7 27.1
These financial statements of Empresaria Group plc were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 
1 March 2016. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Joost Kreulen Spencer Wreford 
Director   Director
Consolidated balance sheet 54
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Retranslation 
reserve 
£m
Equity 
reserve
 £m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at  
31 December 2013 2.2 19.4 0.9 2.6 (6.7) (1.2) 4.4 3.1 24.7 
Profit for the year – – – – – – 3.5 0.3 3.8 
Dividend – – – – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Currency translation 
differences – – – (0.8) – (0.1) – (0.1) (1.0)
Non-controlling interest 
acquired and other 
movements during the year – – – – (0.4) – – (0.1) (0.5)
Business acquisition – – – – – – – 0.2 0.2 
Share based payment – – – – – 0.2 – – 0.2 
Dividend paid to non-
controlling interest – – – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at  
31 December 2014 2.2 19.4 0.9 1.8 (7.1) (1.1) 7.8 3.2 27.1 
Profit for the year – – – – – – 4.4 0.1 4.5 
Dividend – – – – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Shares issued (note 21) 0.2 3.1 – – – – – – 3.3 
Expenses of issue  
of equity shares (note 21) – (0.1) – – – – – – (0.1)
Currency translation 
differences – – – (0.8) – 0.3 – (0.2) (0.7)
Non-controlling interest 
acquired and other 
movements during the year – – – – (0.1) – – (0.2) (0.3)
Share based payment – – – – – 0.2 – – 0.2 
Balance at 
31 December 2015 2.4 22.4 0.9 1.0 (7.2) (0.6) 11.9 2.9 33.7 
Equity comprises the following:
• ‘Share capital’ represents the nominal value of equity shares.
• ‘Share premium account’ represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity 
shares, net of expenses of the share issue. 
• ‘Merger reserve’ relates to premiums arising on shares issued subject to the provisions of section 612 ‘Merger relief’  
of the Companies Act 2006.
• ‘Retranslation reserve’ represents the exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries. 
• ‘Equity reserve’ represents movement in equity due to acquisition of non-controlling interests under IFRS 3 Business 
combination.
• ‘Other reserves’ represents the share based payment reserve of £0.6m and exchange differences on intercompany  
long-term receivables which are treated as a net investment in foreign operations.
• ‘Retained earnings’ represents accumulated profits less distributions and income/expense recognised in equity  
from incorporation.
• ‘Non-controlling interest’ represents Equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
55 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit for the year 4.5 3.8 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 0.7 0.7 
Intangible amortisation 0.4 0.2 
Taxation expense recognised in income statement 2.6 2.1 
Exceptional items – (0.1)
Loss on business disposal – 0.1 
Cash paid for exceptional items (0.5) (0.3)
Share based payments 0.2 0.2 
Net finance charge 0.5 0.5 
8.4 7.2 
Decrease in invoice discounting (1.2) (2.6)
(Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (1.1) 1.2 
Increase in trade payables 1.5 0.9 
Cash generated from operations 7.6 6.7 
Interest paid (0.5) (0.6)
Income taxes paid (1.8) (0.9)
Net cash from operating activities 5.3 5.2 
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash acquired with business acquisition 0.1 0.1 
Overdraft acquired with business (0.7) –
Consideration paid for business acquisition (5.3) (1.3)
Consideration received for business disposals 0.1 0.1 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (0.9) (1.0)
Finance income 0.1 0.1 
Net cash used in investing activities (6.6) (2.0)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 3.2 – 
Further shares acquired in existing subsidiaries (0.4) (0.5)
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings (0.1) 0.4 
Proceeds from bank loan 5.3 0.1 
Repayment of bank and other loan (6.2) (0.6)
Dividends paid to shareholders (0.3) (0.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (0.1) (0.2)
Net cash from financing activities 1.4 (1.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.1 2.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.2) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 7.8 5.7 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 19 7.7 7.8
Consolidated cash flow statement FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
56
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION 
Empresaria Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the 
registered office is Old Church House, Sandy Lane, Crawley Down, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 4HS. Its company registration 
number is 03743194. 
The consolidated financial statements are for the twelve months ended 31 December 2015. The financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union (EU) and therefore the Group financial statements 
comply with AIM rules. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except that they have been modified to 
include the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities. The measurement bases and principal accounting policies of 
the Group are set out below. 
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (£) because that is the presentational currency of  
the Group. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. 
Changes in accounting policies 
Adoption of new and revised standards 
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted.
Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits 
Annual improvements to IFRS 2010–2012 Cycle 
Annual improvements to IFRS 2011–2013 Cycle
No amendments to these financial statements have been made as a result of adopting new and revised standards  
and interpretations.
Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 11 (amendments): Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations
IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amendments) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 
IAS 19 (amendments): Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 
IAS 27 (amendments): Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 (amendments) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
IAS 1 (amendments): Disclosure initiative 
Annual improvements 2010 to 2014: Various IFRS
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on 
the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except for disclosure and that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement 
and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures. 
Beyond the information above it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 until a 
detailed review has been completed.
IFRS 16 establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases, with the objective of 
ensuring that lessees and lessors provide relevant information that faithfully represents those transactions. Under IFRS 16 
significant changes are introduced to lessee accounting, with the distinction between operating and finance leases removed 
and assets and liabilities recognised in respect of all leases (subject to limited exceptions for short-term leases and leases of 
low value assets).
Subject to EU endorsement, IFRS 16 would apply for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group 
is currently assessing the impact of accounting changes that will arise under IFRS 16. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
57 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Going concern 
The Group’s activities are funded by a combination of long-term equity capital and bank facilities, primarily term loans, 
invoice discounting and overdrafts. The day-to-day operations are funded by cash generated from trading and the use of 
invoice discounting and overdraft facilities. The board has reviewed the Group’s profit and cash flow projections, and applied 
sensitivities to the underlying assumptions. 
These projections demonstrate that the Group will meet its obligations as they fall due with the use of existing facilities. The 
Group’s core banking facilities have been reviewed and renewed during 2015 with the changes being applied in the first 
quarter of 2016. The Group’s overdraft facilities are due for renewal in January 2017 and, based on informal discussions the 
board has had with its lenders, we have no reason to believe that these facilities will not continue to be available to the Group 
for the foreseeable future. The financial statements do not reflect the adjustments that would be necessary were the trading 
performance of the Group to deteriorate significantly or if the funding available from invoice discounting or overdrafts were to 
become unavailable. Thus the Group continues to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis. 
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiary from the date on which the Group 
obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the Group ceases its control. 
Control is achieved when the Group:
• has the power over the investee;
• is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee; and
• has the ability to use its power to affects its returns.
Intra-group transactions and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation. Amounts reported in the financial statements of 
subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity 
therein. Non-controlling interest consists of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination 
and the non-controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Total comprehensive income 
is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit balance. The results 
of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. 
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity 
transactions. The carrying amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the 
changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed 
to the owners of the Company. 
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair value, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liability incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred. Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted 
against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments. The measurement period is the 
period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that 
existed as at the acquisition date and is a maximum of one year. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent 
consideration classified as an asset or liability are recognised in the income statement as per IFRS3 (2008). Changes in 
the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity is accounted for within equity. Consideration linked to post-
combination employee services are identified separately from the business combination. Payment for these services is 
accounted for as post-acquisition remuneration separately from the acquisition accounting.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 
(2008) are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for deferred tax assets and liabilities or assets related 
to employee benefit arrangements which are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 
Employee Benefits respectively. 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination 
occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for items for which the accounting is incomplete, which are adjusted during 
the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect the new information obtained.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
58
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Non-controlling interest
In applying the Group’s management equity philosophy, subsidiary management may be offered the opportunity to 
acquire shares in the subsidiary that they are responsible for, at market value. There are no services supplied by any 
employee in relation to this purchase of the shares in the subsidiary. After an agreed period, management may offer to sell 
the shares back to the Company at an agreed price. The Company does not have any obligation to acquire these shares.
If amounts are paid for non-controlling interests in a subsidiary that exceed the fair value of the equity acquired this 
excess amount is charged to the income statement.
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired and is stated  
after separating out identifiable intangible assets. 
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. If, after measurement, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested at least annually for impairment. Goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s 
cash-generating units. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the 
unit, the impairment loss is first allocated against goodwill and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. Goodwill is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS (1 January 2006) has been retained at the previous  
UK GAAP carrying amount. 
Intangible assets 
An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can 
be measured reliably. 
Intangible assets acquired separately – intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful life. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period, with any changes being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination – Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised 
separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date (regarded as their cost). They are 
subsequently reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment on the same basis as intangible 
assets acquired separately.
Amortisation of intangible assets 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement and calculated using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life 
as follows: 
Customer relations up to fifteen years 
Trademarks up to fifteen years 
Software up to three years
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets are reviewed against their recoverable amount for any 
indication of impairment at each balance sheet date or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. An 
impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit 
exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, such that it does not exceed the carrying amount that would have existed had no impairment loss been 
recognised. The reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
59 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost or valuation of the assets less their residual 
values over their useful lives as follows: 
Leasehold property over the term of the lease up to a maximum of 10 years 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment up to three years 
Motor vehicles up to five years 
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with 
any changes accounted for on a prospective basis.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the 
income statement.
Borrowing costs
Interest costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. Facility arrangement fees incurred in 
respect of borrowings are amortised over the term of the agreement.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash-in-hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within the balance sheet in current 
liabilities – short-term borrowings. 
Invoice financing
The Group’s operating activities in the UK are part funded by an invoice discounting facility. The debt provider has full 
recourse to the Group for any irrecoverable debt; these debts are presented within current borrowings and the asset due 
from the customer in current assets in the Group’s Balance sheet.
Movements in the invoice discounting balance are treated as operating cash flows since, in substance the receipts represent 
advances against trade receivables.
Interest charges on invoice discounting are included in Finance costs. Service charges are included in Administrative costs.
Financial assets 
Financial assets are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet and, other than hedging instruments, can be divided into the 
following categories: 
• loans and receivables 
• financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 
• available-for-sale financial assets 
Financial assets are assigned to the different categories on initial recognition, depending on the characteristics of the 
instrument and its purpose. A financial instrument’s category is relevant for the way it is measured and whether resulting 
income and expenses are recognised in profit or loss or charged directly against equity.
Generally, the Group recognises all financial assets using transfer value basis. An assessment of whether a financial asset is 
impaired is made at least at each reporting date. For receivables, this is based on the latest credit information available, (i.e. 
recent third-party defaults and external credit ratings). Financial assets that are substantially past due are also considered 
for impairment. All income and expense relating to financial assets are recognised in the income statement line item Finance 
costs or Finance income, respectively.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
60
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Any change in their 
value is recognised in profit or loss. The Group’s trade and other receivables fall into this category of financial instruments. 
Individual receivables are considered for impairment when they are past due at the balance sheet date or when objective 
evidence is received that a specific third party will default.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements.  
Financial liabilities 
The Group’s financial liabilities include borrowings and trade and other payables (including finance lease liabilities). They 
are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. 
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual agreements of the instrument. All 
interest-related charges and, if applicable, changes in the instrument’s fair value that are reported in the profit or loss are 
included in the income statement line items Finance costs or Finance income. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group 
will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are 
measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and 
are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Revenue and revenue recognition 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services provided in the  
ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value added tax, trade discounts, rebates and other  
sales-related taxes. 
Permanent placement revenue is recognised at the point when the candidate commences employment. Contract placement 
revenue (including outsourced services) is recognised on the basis of actual work performed in the relevant period based on 
timesheets submitted. Training revenue is recognised at the point when the training is provided to clients.
Net fee income
Net fee income represents revenue less the remuneration cost of temporary workers. For permanent placements net fees 
are equal to revenue. For Training and Offshore recruitment services net fee income represents revenue less costs of staff 
directly related to providing those services.
Employee benefits 
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments made to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due. 
Share based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to the Executive Directors, which are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant and expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-
market-based vesting conditions. 
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model and Black-Scholes model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
61 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Leases 
Leases that result in the Group receiving substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are treated as 
finance leases. An asset held under a finance lease is recorded in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of its 
estimated useful life and the lease term. Future installments net of finance charges are included within borrowings. Minimum 
lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge element, which is allocated to each period to produce a 
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining liability and charged to the income statement and the principal element 
which reduces the outstanding liability. 
Rental costs arising from operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Where an 
incentive is received to enter into an operating lease, such incentive is treated as a liability and recognised as a reduction to 
the rental expense on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
Current and deferred tax 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
Current tax is the tax currently payable based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported 
in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and 
it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities and their tax bases and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally provided in full, with no discounting. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
underlying deductible temporary differences will be able to be offset against future taxable income. However, deferred tax 
is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability, unless the related 
transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are 
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that there will be sufficient future 
taxable profit to allow the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that it will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply in the relevant period of realisation, provided they are 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the income statement, except 
where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is also 
charged or credited directly to equity.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
62
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Foreign currencies 
(i) Functional and presentational currency 
Items included in the individual financial statements of each Group company are measured using the individual currency of 
the primary economic environment in which that subsidiary operates (its ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Company’s functional and presentational currency.
(ii) Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates 
of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised 
in the income statement. Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for 
which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation) 
are recognised initially in other comprehensive income. These exchange differences are reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss on disposal or partial disposal of the net investment. 
(iii) Group companies 
The results and financial position of Group companies (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) that 
have a functional currency different from the Company’s presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency 
as follows: 
–  assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; 
–  income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a 
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income 
and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and 
– all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Retranslation reserve. 
(iv) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of net investment hedge is recognised in equity in 
the foreign currency translation reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss. Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal 
of the foreign operation. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at closing rate. 
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not clear from other sources. These estimates and judgements 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other relevant factors. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The estimates and assumptions which have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amount is determined based 
on the value-in-use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows. Details of the impairment review calculation 
are set out in note 14.  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
63 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Intangible assets (including goodwill) 
The Group recognises intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations at fair value at the date of acquisition. 
The determination of these fair values is based upon management’s judgement and includes assumptions on the timing and 
amount of future incremental cash flows generated by the assets and selection of an appropriate cost of capital. 
In addition, management must assess the value of any contingent consideration that is due to the seller following the 
completion of the initial purchase. The value of this consideration is frequently based on the financial performance of the 
business post acquisition. Therefore management must assess the likely value of this performance and so give a value to the 
expected contingent consideration. Actual post-completion performance may vary from management’s estimate.
Furthermore, management must estimate the expected useful lives of intangible assets and charge amortisation on these 
assets accordingly. Further details on the intangible assets and goodwill are disclosed in notes 14 and 15. 
Recognition of deferred tax asset 
The ability to use brought forward tax losses depends on future profitability in the company with the losses and the tax 
regulations in the country. Management must assess the likelihood of being able to use the losses and so whether to 
recognise a deferred tax asset. Details of the deferred tax balances are set out in note 20.
Provisions
Impairment of trade receivables: Individual trade receivables are considered for impairment when they are past due at 
the balance sheet date or when objective evidence is received that a specific third party will default. The provision for 
impairment of trade receivables requires significant judgement as the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, ageing of the 
debt, the potential likelihood of default, taking into account current economic conditions, the risk profile of a customer and 
other credit rating factors, such as financial health, historical experience of and near-term business outlook for a customer.
Other provisions: Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation 
at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
64
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
4 SEGMENT ANALYSIS
Information reported to the Group’s Chief Executive who is considered to be Chief operating decision maker of the Group 
for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is based on geographic region. The Group’s 
business is segmented into three regions, UK, Continental Europe and Rest of the World. There is no material difference 
between the segmentation of the Group’s turnover by geographic origin and destination.
The Group has one principal activity, the provision of staffing and recruitment services. Each unit is managed separately with 
local management responsible for determining local strategy.
The analysis of the Group’s business by geographical origin is set out below:
Year ended 31 December 2015
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Rest of  
the World
£m
Eliminations
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 62.7 75.2 49.4 – 187.3 
Net fee income 18.4 14.5 16.3 – 49.2 
Adjusted operating profit* 2.2 3.9 1.9 – 8.0 
Operating profit 2.1 3.7 1.8 – 7.6 
*   Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before exceptional items, loss on business disposal and intangible amortisation.
Revenue of Continental Europe includes £71.4 million from Germany.
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1 1.1 – 1.5 
Goodwill 7.7 12.0 5.5 – 25.2 
Other Intangibles assets 0.7 1.1 5.5 – 7.3 
Deferred tax assets 0.2 – 0.7 – 0.9 
Other segmental assets 26.6 16.4 19.7 (19.1) 43.6 
Segmental liabilities (16.7) (18.9) (14.9) 5.7 (44.8)
Net assets 18.8 10.7 17.6 (13.4) 33.7 
Capital expenditure incurred (including intangibles) 0.2 0.2 0.5 – 0.9 
Significant non-cash expenses (depreciation, 
amortisation and trade receivable impairment) 0.4 0.4 0.6 – 1.4 
Non-current assets for Germany and United States amount to £11.9 million and £7.5 million respectively. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
65 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Year ended 31 December 2014
UK
£m
Continental 
Europe
£m
Rest of  
the World
£m
Eliminations
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 65.8 76.8 45.3 – 187.9 
Net fee income 15.9 15.0 13.7 – 44.6 
Adjusted operating profit* 2.2 3.2 1.2 – 6.6 
Operating profit 2.2 3.0 1.2 – 6.4 
* Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before exceptional items, gain or loss on business disposal and intangible amortisation.
Revenue of Continental Europe includes £69.8 million from Germany.
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1 0.8 – 1.2 
Goodwill 7.7 12.7 3.3 – 23.7 
Other Intangibles assets 0.7 1.3 0.3 – 2.3 
Deferred tax assets 0.2 – 0.7 – 0.9 
Segmental assets 29.1 16.6 16.4 (19.8) 42.3 
Segmental liabilities (24.8) (19.8) (9.9) 11.2 (43.3)
Net assets 13.2 10.9 11.6 (8.6) 27.1 
Capital expenditure incurred (including intangibles) 0.3 0.2 0.5 – 1.0 
Significant non-cash expenses (depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment) 0.4 0.4 0.3 – 1.1 
Non-current assets for Germany amount to £12.5 million.
The following segmental analysis by sector has been included as additional disclosure to the requirements of IFRS 8.
Revenue
2015
£m
Revenue
2014
£m
Net fee 
income
2015
£m
Net fee 
income
2014
£m
Professional services 12.9 10.0 6.2 5.1 
IT, digital & design 25.7 24.0 9.2 7.2 
Technical & industrial 109.4 115.8 21.5 20.8 
Retail 23.9 23.1 3.4 3.2 
Healthcare 6.1 5.8 1.7 1.5 
Executive search 3.2 2.8 3.1 2.6 
Other services 6.1 6.4 4.1 4.2 
187.3 187.9 49.2 44.6  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND LOSS ON BUSINESS DISPOSAL
Exceptional charges
Exceptional items are those which, in management’s judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or 
incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Release of provision against potential retrospective  
pay claims and social security liability in Germany – 0.1 
– 0.1 
In Germany the residual provision for potential social security liability amounts to £nil (2014: £0.5m). During the year £nil 
(2014: £0.1m) was released and £0.5m (2014: £0.1m) was paid.
Loss on business disposal
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Losses on business disposal – (0.1)
– (0.1)
In 2014 we entered into sale agreements to dispose of GiT in Czech Republic and Metis in Malaysia. The completion of 
these transactions took place during the first two months of 2015. In 2015 we have recognised £nil (2014: £0.1m) for loss on 
disposal of these businesses.
6 BUSINESS ACQUISITION
On 19 October 2015 the Group purchased 100% of the shares in Pharmaceutical Strategies, LLC, Recruitment Strategies, 
LLC, Medical Recruitment Strategies, LLC and Recruitment Strategies Group, LLC (together ‘PS’ or ‘Pharmaceutical 
Strategies’), a United States staffing company specialising in the Pharmacy Benefit Management (‘PBM’) sector of the US 
healthcare market.
Initial consideration is £4.7 million with one contingent payment based on the final performance of the year ended 
31 December 2015 and two further contingent payments based on the performance of the company in the years ending 
31 December 2016 and 2017. The contingent consideration payments payable for the year ending 31 December 2016 
and 2017 are based on the growth in earnings over the year ended 31 December 2015. Of the £3.2 million contingent 
consideration £2.7 million is no longer contingent and is payable in the year ended 31 December 2016. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
67 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  The amounts recognised in respect of the purchase consideration, identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and 
goodwill are as set out in the table below:
Pharmaceutical 
Strategies
 £m
Purchases consideration recognised
Cash consideration paid 4.7 
Contingent consideration accrued 3.2 
Total purchase consideration 7.9 
Intangibles recognised on acquisition (as per IFRS 3 ‘Business combination’)*
Identifiable intangibles: Customer relations 2.6 
Identifiable intangibles: Trade name 2.5 
5.1 
Acquiree’s book value of net assets acquired*
Property plant and equipment 0.2 
Trade and other receivable 1.2 
Cash at bank 0.1 
Bank overdraft (0.7)
Trade and other payables (0.2)
0.6 
Goodwill 2.2 
Total Assets 7.9
* The above tables represents fair value on date of investment.
Acquisition related costs amounting to £0.2 million are not included above and have been recognised in the income statement.
The goodwill comprise the value of its employees and their close understanding of their clients requirements which are of 
great importance in the recruitment business. The four subsidiaries of Pharmaceutical Strategies are run as one operating 
unit and represent a single cash generating unit for goodwill allocation.
Goodwill of £1.6 million and intangibles of £5.1 million are expected to be deductible for tax purpose.
There are no post-combination employees services identified from this acquisition.
The investment has contributed £1.4 million to the Groups revenue, £0.1 million to profits attributed to equity holders of the 
parent and £34,000 to the Group’s operating cash flow since acquisition for the period ended 31 December 2015.
If the investments had been completed on 1 January 2015 the Group would have generated additional revenues of £5.7 
million for the period to 31 December 2015. The profit attributed to equity holders of the parent, including amortisation and 
after tax, for the period would have been an additional £0.2 million. Excluding amortisation the profits attributed to equity 
holders of the parent would increase by a further £0.3 million to £0.5 million. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
68
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
6 BUSINESS ACQUISITION CONTINUED
Contingent consideration 
The contingent consideration is payable based upon the final results for the years ending 31 December 2015, 2016 and 2017. 
As at 31 December 2015, the maximum contingent consideration payable that could be required under the share purchase 
agreement was £5.7m.
Maximum consideration £m
Maximum consideration capped as part of the purchases agreement 10.4 
Cash consideration paid 4.7 
Maximum undiscounted contingent consideration 5.7 
An amount of £3.2m contingent consideration has been accrued as a best estimate based upon discounting the future cash 
flows of Pharmaceutical Strategies following business plans and budget preparations with the management team. Of this 
amount, £2.7m is no longer contingent and is payable by the end of April 2016.
7 OPERATING PROFIT 
Operating profit is stated after charging:
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.2 
Loss on business disposal – 0.1 
Operating lease charges:
– Land and buildings (office) 1.6 1.4 
– Motor vehicles (office) 0.3 0.3 
– Project based accommodation 1.0 1.6 
– Project based transportation 0.2 0.2 
Net foreign exchange gain 0.2 – 
Share based payments 0.2 0.2 
Exceptional gain – (0.1)
Acquisition related costs 0.2 0.1 
Trade receivable impairments 0.3 0.2 
Auditor’s remuneration 0.3 0.3 
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2015 
£000
2014
 £000
Auditor’s remuneration:
Fee payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Group annual accounts 279 275 
Other fee 20 3 
Total auditor’s remuneration 299 278 
Auditor’s remuneration includes fees payable of £193,000 (2014: £196,000) for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 
pursuant to legislation. Non audit fee amounting £20,000 (2014: £3,000) relates to other assurance services. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
69 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  8 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Staff costs 
Wages and salaries 25.2 22.8 
Social security costs 2.5 2.6 
Pension costs 0.5 0.4 
Share based payments 0.2 0.2
28.4 26.0 
Details of directors’ remuneration are given on page 48. 
No. No.
Average monthly number of persons employed (including directors)
Sales, distribution and administration 1,097 942
9 FINANCE INCOME AND COST 
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Finance income
Bank interest receivable 0.1 0.1 
0.1 0.1 
Finance cost
On amounts payable to invoice discounters (0.2) (0.2)
Bank loans and overdrafts (0.3) (0.4)
Interest on tax payments (0.1) – 
(0.6) (0.6)
Net finance cost (0.5) (0.5) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
70
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
10 TAXATION
(a) The tax charge for the year is based on the following:
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Current taxation
Current tax charge (2.8) (2.4)
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of previous periods 0.1 (0.2)
(2.7) (2.6)
Deferred tax charge – current year 0.1 0.2 
Deferred tax charge – prior year – 0.3 
0.1 0.5 
Total income tax expense in the income statement (2.6) (2.1)
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Profit before taxation 7.1 5.9 
Profit before tax at standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (1.4) (1.2)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (0.4) (0.1)
Current year losses not recognised for tax purposes (0.1) (0.1)
Benefit of prior year losses not previously recognised for tax purposes – 0.1 
Write down of losses previously recognised for tax purposes (0.1) – 
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of previous periods 0.1 (0.2)
Irrecoverable withholding tax – (0.1)
Amortisation disallowed (0.1) (0.1)
Overseas tax at different tax rates (0.6) (0.4)
Tax expense (2.6) (2.1)
The movement in deferred tax is explained in note 20.  
There was no (2014: £nil) tax recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
The reduction in the tax rate from 21.5% to 20.25% reflects reductions in the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK from 
23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. The 20.25% rate is the average 
UK rate applicable for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: 21.5%). STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
71 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  11 RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX TO PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Profit before tax 7.1 5.9 
Amortisation of intangibles 0.4 0.2 
Exceptional items – (0.1)
Loss on business disposal – 0.1 
Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations 7.5 6.1 
In addition to the adjustments shown above, any consideration paid for non-controlling interests in subsidiary companies in 
excess of fair value derived under IFRS 13 which is charged to the income statement will also represent an adjusting item. 
There have not been any such charges (2014: £nil) in the current year.
12 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of the basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the 
average number of shares in issue during the year. A reconciliation of the earnings and weighted average number of shares 
used in the calculations are set out below.
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Earnings
Earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 4.4 3.5 
Adjustments:
Exceptional items – (0.1)
Loss on business disposal – 0.1 
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.2 
Earnings for the purpose of adjusted earnings per share 4.8 3.7 
Number of shares Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares – basic 46.4 44.6
Dilution effect of share options 1.5 1.9
Weighted average number of shares – diluted 47.9 46.5
Earnings per share Pence Pence
Basic 9.6 7.8 
Dilution effect of share options (0.3) (0.3)
Diluted 9.3 7.5 
Earnings per share (adjusted) Pence Pence
Basic 10.2 8.3 
Dilution effect of share options (0.3) (0.3)
Diluted 9.9 8.0 
The dilution on the number of shares is from share options granted to the executive directors. Further details of these share 
options can be found in note 28 and the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 48.
In October 2015 the Company issued 4,456,285 new ordinary shares (see note 21 for details). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
72
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
2015
Leasehold 
property 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Motor  
vehicles 
£m
Total
 £m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 0.4 5.6 0.3 6.3 
Additions 0.2 0.6 – 0.8 
Assets acquired with business acquisition – 0.2 – 0.2 
Disposals – (1.7) – (1.7)
Exchange differences – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.6 4.6 0.3 5.5 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.2 4.7 0.2 5.1 
Depreciation – 0.7 – 0.7 
Disposals – (1.7) – (1.7)
Exchange differences – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.2 3.6 0.2 4.0 
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 0.2 0.9 0.1 1.2 
At 31 December 2015 0.4 1.0 0.1 1.5 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) of secured finance leases. 
2014
Leasehold 
property 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Motor  
vehicles 
£m
Total
 £m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.2 5.9 0.2 6.3 
Additions 0.2 0.7 0.1 1.0 
Assets acquired with business acquisition – 0.1 – 0.1 
Disposals – (0.8) – (0.8)
Exchange differences – (0.3) – (0.3)
At 31 December 2014 0.4 5.6 0.3 6.3 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.1 5.1 0.1 5.3 
Depreciation 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.7 
Disposals – (0.7) – (0.7)
Exchange differences – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 31 December 2014 0.2 4.7 0.2 5.1 
Net book value
At 31 December 2013 0.1 0.8 0.1 1.0 
At 31 December 2014 0.2 0.9 0.1 1.2 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes £0.1m (2013: £nil) of secured finance leases.  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
73 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  14 GOODWILL
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 23.7 24.3 
Acquisition of new subsidiary undertakings 2.2 0.6 
Adjustment due to deferred consideration in existing subsidiaries – (0.3)
Foreign exchange (0.7) (0.9)
At 31 December 25.2 23.7 
Goodwill arising on business combinations is reviewed and tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently 
if there is indication that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying 
amount of each cash-generating unit (CGU) at lowest level of cash flow, including goodwill, with the recoverable amount  
of that income-generating unit. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are as follows:
Operating profit & pre-tax cash flows
The operating profit & pre-tax cash flow is based on the latest one-year forecasts for the CGUs approved by the Group’s 
Management Board which are compiled using expectations of fee growth, consultant productivity and operating costs. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts approved by management and 
extrapolates cash flows in perpetuity based on the long-term growth rates using margins that are consistent with the 
business plan approved by Group’s Management Board.
Discount rates
The pre-tax, country specific rate used to discount the forecast cash flows ranges from 13% to 21% (2014: 12.5%) reflecting 
current local market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the relevant CGUs. These discount 
rates reflect estimated industry weighted average cost of capital in each market.
Pre-tax discount rates used for various cash generating units in operating segments are as follows:
UK: 13.5%
Continental Europe: 13.0%
Rest of the World: 13.5% to 21%
Growth rates
Growth rates used to extrapolate beyond the most recent forecasts and to determine terminal values are based upon the 
long-term average GDP growth forecast, which are consistent with external sources, for the relevant country. Growth rates 
range from 0.7% to 7.7%. Any growth rate in excess of 3.0% was capped for the purpose of this calculation. GDP growth is  
a key driver of our business, and is therefore a key consideration in developing long-term forecasts.
Growth rates used for various cash generating units in operating segments are as follows:
UK: 2.2%
Continental Europe: 1.3% to 1.4%
Rest of the World: 0.7 to 3.0% (capped)
Impairment reviews were performed at the year-end by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable 
amount of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. It is the opinion of the Directors that at 31 December 2015 there 
was no impairment of goodwill.
As part of the impairment review, management has considered the sensitivity of the recoverable amount for each unit 
to changes in the growth rates and discount rate. This sensitivity analysis showed that the long-term growth rate could 
reduce to nil without giving rise to an impairment of goodwill. The discount rates were also increased by adding an 
additional 2% to the country specific pre-tax discount rates. None of these changes in the key assumptions are expected 
to reasonably occur. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
74
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
14 GOODWILL CONTINUED
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Goodwill by region
United Kingdom 7.7 7.7
Continental Europe 12.0 12.7
Rest of the World 5.5 3.3
25.2 23.7
15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
2015
Customer 
relationship
£m
Trade name  
& marks
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
Carrying amount at 1 January 2015 3.4 0.6 0.4 4.4 
Additions – – 0.1 0.1 
Acquisition 2.6 2.5 – 5.1 
Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 – 0.2 
Gross carrying amount at 31 December 2015 6.1 3.2 0.5 9.8 
Amortisation
Carrying amount at 1 January 2015 1.2 0.6 0.3 2.1 
Charge for year 0.3 – 0.1 0.4 
Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2015 1.5 0.6 0.4 2.5 
Net book value as at 31 December 2014 2.2 – 0.1 2.3 
Net book value as at 31 December 2015 4.6 2.6 0.1 7.3 
2014
Customer 
relationship
£m
Trade name  
& marks
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
Carrying amount at 1 January 2014 2.6 0.6 0.4 3.6 
Additions – – – – 
Acquisition 1.0 – – 1.0 
Foreign exchange (0.2) – – (0.2)
Gross carrying amount at 31 December 2014 3.4 0.6 0.4 4.4 
Amortisation
Carrying amount at 1 January 2014 1.1 0.6 0.2 1.9 
Charge for year 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 
Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2014 1.2 0.6 0.3 2.1 
Net book value as at 31 December 2013 1.5 – 0.2 1.7 
Net book value as at 31 December 2014 2.2 – 0.1 2.3  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
75 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  16 SUBSIDIARIES
A list of the investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of ownership interest, 
change of ownership interest not resulting in loss of control is given in note 6 to the Company’s financial statements.
The following consolidated UK subsidiary companies are exempt from an annual audit under section 479A of the Companies 
Act 2006 for which the Company has provided a guarantee under section 479C of the Companies Act 2006. This guarantees 
all outstanding liabilities to which the subsidiary is subject to as at 31 December 2015 until they are settled in full. The 
guarantee is enforceable against the Company by any person to whom the subsidiary is liable in respect of those liabilities.
Name of Subsidiary Company Number Type of Subsidiary
Empresaria Asia Limited 07384224 Holding
Empresaria GIT Holdings Limited 05669458 Dormant
Empresaria GIT Limited 05669176 Dormant
Interim Management International Limited 04067140 Holding
TLN 1004 Limited 04598490 Dormant
TLN 1006 Limited 03570249 Dormant
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current
Trade receivables 32.2 31.2 
Less provision for impairment of trade receivables (0.4) (0.3)
Net trade receivables 31.8 30.9 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.8 1.7 
Deferred and contingent consideration 0.3 0.4 
Other receivables 2.0 1.5 
35.9 34.5 
Trade receivables include £23.4m (2014: £23.8m) on which security has been given as part of bank facilities. 
All amounts are due within one year. The carrying value of trade receivables is considered to be a reasonable approximation 
of fair value.
Further analysis on trade receivables is set out in note 22. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
76
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
18 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Current
Trade payables 0.9 0.9 
Other tax and social security 5.7 6.1 
Other payables 3.6 3.5 
Accruals 11.0 10.3 
Provision for exceptional items – 0.5 
Contingent consideration 2.8 0.6 
24.0 21.9 
All amounts are payable within one year. The fair values of trade and other payables are not materially different from those 
disclosed above.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current
Contingent consideration 0.5 – 
Other payables 0.5 – 
1.0 – 
The fair values of trade and other payables are not materially different from those disclosed above.
19 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
a) Borrowings
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current
Bank overdrafts 2.3 2.4
Amounts related to invoice financing 6.9 8.1
Current portion of bank loans 0.7 0.7
9.9 11.2
Non-current
Bank loans 5.1 6.4
5.1 6.4
Total financial liabilities 15.0 17.6
During the year the UK revolving credit facility of up to €10 million was repaid, replaced by new facilities in Germany  
provided directly to our subsidiary company. The new facilities comprise a term loan of €5 million which expires in 2018  
and an increase in overdraft facilities of €5 million to €8 million. As at 31 December 2015, the term loan was fully utilised  
and €2.2 million of the overdraft was utilised. Interest is payable at EURIBOR plus 3% for the term loan and EURIBOR  
plus 2.3% for the overdraft. The facilities are secured by a parent company guarantee. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
77 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  The term loan in the UK outstanding as at 31 December 2014 of £0.8 million was also repaid during the year and resulted 
in an increase in the UK overdraft facility of £0.5m. A new term loan of £4.5 million, which expires in 2018, was entered into 
to part fund the initial acquisition payment and the deferred consideration payments for the acquisition of Pharmaceutical 
Strategies (see note 6 for details) due between 2016 and 2018. A $1.5 million overdraft facility was also entered into to 
provide working capital facilities to the acquired entity. As at 31 December 2015, £1.6 million of the term loan was utilised 
and $1.1 million of the overdraft was utilised. Interest is payable at UK base rate plus 1.5% for the term loan and UK base 
rate plus 2.0% for the overdraft.
The existing UK overdraft facilities were increased from £4 million to £5.5 million during the year. The interest rate on the  
UK bank overdrafts was fixed during the year at rates up to 1.0% above applicable currency base rates. The value of the  
UK bank overdrafts at 31 December 2015 was £nil (2014: £2.0m). 
The UK facilities are secured by a first fixed charge over all book and other debts given by the Company and certain of its  
UK subsidiaries. 
Other overseas overdrafts had interest rates of between 1.1% and 7.7% during the year.
b) Movement in net borrowings
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
As at 1 January (9.8) (15.2)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents before cash /  
overdraft acquired with business acquisition 0.7 2.2 
Net (overdraft) / cash acquired with business acquisition (0.6) 0.1 
Decrease in loans 1.0 0.2 
Decrease in invoice financing 1.2 2.6 
Currency translation differences 0.2 0.3 
As at 31 December (7.3) (9.8)
c) Analysis of net borrowings
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Financial liabilities – borrowings (15.0) (17.6)
Cash and cash equivalents 7.7 7.8 
As at 31 December (7.3) (9.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 include cash with banks of £43,000 (2014: £108,000) held by a subsidiary 
in China which is subject to currency exchange restrictions. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
78
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
20 DEFERRED TAX 
Tax losses
£000
Capital 
allowances
£000
Holiday pay
£000
Timing 
differences
£000
Intangible 
assets
£000
Total
2015
£000
2014
£000
1 January 340 61 86 327 (993) (179) (547)
(Charge) / credit to income (8) (7) 6 77 15 83 518 
Settled – – – (70) – (70) – 
Business acquisition – – – – – – (160)
Foreign exchange difference 4 – – 4 23 31 10 
31 December 336 54 92 338 (955) (135) (179)
Analysis of deferred tax
2015
£000
2014
£000
Deferred tax asset 946 932 
Deferred tax liability (1,081) (1,111)
(135) (179)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £2.5m (2014: £1.5m) available for offset against future taxable 
profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £1.4m (2014: £1.1m) of such losses. No deferred tax asset 
has been recognised in respect of the remaining £1.1m (2014: £0.4m) as it is not considered probable that there will be  
future taxable profits available.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £3.9m (2014: £4.0m) relating to the unremitted earnings 
of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
21 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM
Share capital
2015 2014
Number  
of shares £m
Number  
of shares £m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each 49,019,132 2.4 44,562,847 2.2
In October 2015 the Company issued and allotted 4,456,285 new ordinary shares for £0.75 each. Nominal value per allotted 
share was £0.05. Expenses of issue of equity shares amounting £120,000 were recognised against share premium.
Share premium
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Balance at 1 January 19.4 19.4 
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 3.1 – 
Expenses of issue of equity shares (0.1) – 
Balance at 31 December 22.4 19.4  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
79 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  22 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The principal financial assets of the Group are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. The main purpose 
of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The principal financial liabilities are trade and 
other creditors that arise directly from operations, amounts owed to invoice discounters and bank loans. Further information 
on the Group’s treasury policy and activities during the year can be found in the Finance review on pages 24 to 27.
Credit risk analysis
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 
the reporting date was:
Classes of financial assets – carrying amounts
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 7.7 7.8
Trade and other receivables * 34.0 32.8
* Trade and other receivables exclude prepayment, tax and social security. 
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the third parties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net 
of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, 
based on previous experience, is evidence of a likely reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows. The Group has no 
significant concentration of risk, with exposure spread over a large number of third parties and customers.
Trade receivables ageing and impairment losses
The age of trade receivables net of impaired debts as of the reporting date is as follows:
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
0–30 days 16.2 17.2 
31–60 days 10.3 10.6 
61–90 days 3.3 1.7 
Over 90 days 2.0 1.4 
Total trade receivables (note 17) 31.8 30.9 
Average trade receivables days during the year was 51 days (2014: 52 days).  
All of the Group’s trade receivables have been reviewed for indicators of impairment and a provision of £0.4 million (2014: 
£0.3 million) has been recorded accordingly.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £23.4 million (2014: £25.9 million) 
which are not past due and a carrying amount of £8.4 million (2014: £5.0 million) which are past due at the reporting date. 
For these balances the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts 
are still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
22 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Trade receivables ageing and impairment losses continued
The age of past due trade receivables net of impaired debts as of the reporting date is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
0–30 days 4.3 2.6 
31–60 days 2.0 1.2 
61–90 days 0.8 0.5 
Over 90 days 1.3 0.8 
Total past due trade receivables 8.4 5.0 
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Balance as 1 January 0.3 0.2 
Impairment loss recognised 0.3 0.2 
Impairment loss utilised (0.2) (0.1)
Balance at 31 December 0.4 0.3 
Liquidity risk analysis
The Group’s funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods offering flexibility and cost effectiveness to match 
the requirements of the Group. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an ongoing basis with regular cash flow forecasts. 
In order to ensure continuity of funding, the Group seeks to arrange funding ahead of business requirements and maintain 
sufficient undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
As at 31 December 2015, Empresaria’s liabilities have contractual maturities which are summarised below:
Current Non-current 
within 6 months 6 to 12 months 1 to 5 years
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Long-term bank loans 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 4.7 6.1 
Trade and other payables 24.0 21.9 – – 0.5 – 
Other short-term financial liabilities 9.2 10.5 – – – – 
Total 33.5 32.7 0.4 0.4 5.2 6.1
The above contractual maturities reflect the gross cash flows, which may differ to the carrying values of the liabilities at the 
balance sheet date.
All bank loans are on floating interest rates. 
At the year end the Group had £15.6m (2014: £10.2m) of undrawn bank facilities (excluding invoice financing).
There was no loan repayment default during the year (2014: nil). At the year end past due loans were nil (2014: nil).
Market risk analysis
The Group is exposed to market risk through its use of financial instruments and specifically to currency risk, interest rate 
risk and certain other price risks. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
81 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Capital risk
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns whilst 
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the 
Group consists of net debt, which includes the borrowings and cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 19 and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 21 
and in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity. The board reviews the capital structure of the Group on an ongoing 
basis, considering the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group has a target debt to 
debtors ratio of 25%. In 2015 this ratio was 23% (2014: 32%). The Board closely monitors the level of borrowings.
Debt to debtors ratio
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Total net borrowing 7.3 9.8 
Trade receivables 31.8 30.9 
Debt to debtors ratio 23% 32%
Gearing ratio
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Gross borrowings 15.0 17.6 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (7.7) (7.8)
Net debts 7.3 9.8 
Equity attributable to company shareholders 30.8 23.9 
Net debt to equity ratio 24% 41%
Debt to EBITDA ratio
EBITDA represents earning before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Total net borrowing (7.3) (9.8)
Operating profit before exceptional items, loss on business disposal and amortisation 8.0 6.6 
Add: depreciation 0.7 0.7 
EBITDA 8.7 7.3 
Debt to EBITDA ratio 84% 134% Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
82
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
22 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Foreign currency risk
Most of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the local currency of the respective country the business is operating in. 
Exposures to currency exchange rates arising from overseas sales and purchases are not significant.
To mitigate the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk, non-local currency cash flows are monitored and if applicable, 
forward exchange contracts are entered into in accordance with the Group’s risk management policies. Generally, 
Empresaria’s risk management procedures distinguish short-term foreign currency cash flows (due within 6 months) from 
longer-term cash flows. Where the amounts to be paid and received in a specific currency are expected to largely offset one 
another, no further hedging activity is undertaken.
During the year ended 31 December 2015 no forward exchange contracts were entered into (2014: nil).
The Group’s main currency exposure is on the translation of subsidiaries results into pound Sterling. The Group does 
not hedge this exposure. There is an element of natural hedge by having operations in different countries. The amount of 
currency retranslation loss recognised in equity was £0.7m (2014: £1.0m). 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s significant non-sterling denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
reporting date are as follows:
 
Assets Liabilities
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Euro 16.7 16.1 (18.5) (18.5)
Japanese Yen 4.1 3.3 (3.3) (2.9)
Chilean Peso 4.8 3.0 (3.1) (1.2)
Indonesian Rupiah 2.9 1.9 (2.0) (1.0)
US Dollars 6.0 0.4 (8.7) – 
Sensitivity analysis
A 10% strengthening of pound sterling against the following currencies would have (decreased) / increased equity and the 
income statement by the amounts shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, 
remain constant.
2015 2014
 Euro
£m
 Japanese 
Yen
£m
 Chilean 
Peso
£m
Indonesian 
Rupiah
£m
US 
Dollars
£m
 Euro
£m
 Japanese 
Yen
£m
 Chilean 
Peso
£m
Indonesian 
Rupiah
£m
US 
Dollars
£m
Net result  
for the year (0.4) (0.1) – – (0.4) (0.4) (0.1) – – (0.1)
Equity (1.4) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.5) (1.3) (0.2) (0.3) (0.3) (0.1)
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the year depending on the volume of overseas transactions. Nonetheless, 
the analysis above is considered to be representative of the Group’s exposure to currency risk.
Interest rate risk
The Group manages its interest rate risk through a combination of cash pooling, shareholder funding and borrowing. 
Management monitors movements in interest rates to determine the most advantageous debt profile for the Group. At 31 
December 2015, Empresaria is exposed to changes in market interest rates through its bank borrowings, which are subject 
to variable interest rates. For further information see note 19.
2015 2014
Effective interest rate on borrowings in the year 2.8% 3.4%
An increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased equity and the income statement by the amounts 
shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
83 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Interest rate
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net result for the year (0.2) (0.2)
Equity (0.2) (0.2)
Fair value
The carrying value of all financial instruments equates to fair value.
23 FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS
Operating leases
Motor vehicles Land and buildings (office) Project based accommodation
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Total minimum operating  
lease payments due:
Within one year 0.5 0.5 1.4 1.2 0.3 0.3
One to five years 0.6 0.5 2.5 1.1 – –
After five years – – 0.2 0.1 – –
1.1 1.0 4.1 2.4 0.3 0.3
24 DIVIDENDS
2015
 £000
2014
 £000
Amount recognised as distribution to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 0.70 pence  
(2013: 0.35 pence) per share 312 156
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 is 1.0 pence  
(2014: 0.7 pence) per share 490 312
The proposed dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements.  
25 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent consideration
Various contingent consideration payments have been deemed probable at 31 December 2015 totalling £3.3 million (2014: 
£0.5 million) which has been recognised as a liability. Contingent consideration has been accrued as a best estimate based 
upon discounting the future cash flows of Pharmaceutical Strategies following business plans and budget preparations with 
the management team. Of this amount, £2.7m is no longer contingent and is payable by the end of April 2016.
Guarantees 
Cross guarantees exist in respect of bank loans and overdrafts between all of the Group companies. Guarantees and 
contingencies exist in the ordinary course of business.
26 PROFIT OF PARENT COMPANY
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, retained earnings of the parent company are not presented as part 
of these financial statements. The parent Company’s profit for the financial year was £2.2m (2014: profit of £2.2m). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
27 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated 
on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. These transactions include intra-group management charges and net 
interest charges to subsidiaries, which amounted to £3.3m (2014: £2.9m) and £0.4m (2014: £0.5m), respectively.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each 
of the categories specified in IAS 24. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the 
audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on page 48.
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 0.8 0.6
There were share based payment costs of £162,000 in the year (2014: £189,000) and pension contributions of £47,000 (2014: 
£48,000) but no other benefits in the year.
Directors’ transactions
Dividends totalling £91,000 (2014: £46,000) were paid in the year in respect of ordinary shares held by the Company’s directors.
Empresaria Group plc transacted with 24/7 Translations Limited for the provision of translation services. Spencer Wreford, 
Group Finance Director, jointly owns this company with his wife. In total the services charged were for £1,016 (2014: £788).
28 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates a share option scheme for directors and senior executives. There were no new options granted 
during the year. The options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options are exercised.
2015
Number of  
share options
2014
Number of  
share options
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,835,154 2,177,746 
Granted during the year – 657,408 
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,835,154 2,835,154 
All the options have a zero cost exercise price. The total aggregate fair value of the options granted is £750,000. In 2015 a 
total expense of £162,000 (2014: £189,000) was recognised in the income statement. Cumulatively to the end of December 
2015, the total amount expensed for the above options is £500,000. The fair value was estimated using a Black-Scholes 
model for the EPS element and a Monte Carlo model for the total shareholder return element. Details of the performance 
conditions can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 48.
The inputs into these models are as follows:
Award in 2014 Award in 2013 Award in 2011*
Share price at date of grant 54p 35p 25p
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Nil
Expected volatility 43.7% 45.0% 46.5%
Expected life 4 years 3.5 years 3.5 years
Risk-free rate 1.47% 1.2% 1.0%
Expected dividend yields 0.65% 1.0% 1.5%
Vesting dates March 2018 March 2017 March 2015*
The expected volatility is determined from the daily log normal distributions of the Company share price over a period equal 
to the expected holding period calculated back from the date of grant. The risk free rate was the zero coupon bond yield 
derived from UK government bonds at the date of grant, with a life equal to the expected holding period.
* The full 2011 award of 1,220,000 share options vested in March 2015. No options have been exercised as at 31 December 2015. STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
85 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  We have audited the parent company financial statements of Empresaria Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 
which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent 
Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 11. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
OTHER MATTER
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Empresaria Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Rob Knight 
Senior statutory auditor 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Crawley, United Kingdom
1 March 2016
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Empresaria Group plc FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
86
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Restated
Non-current assets
Tangible assets 5 0.1 0.1 
Investments 6 26.2 26.1 
26.3 26.2 
Current assets
Debtors (including amounts falling due after  
more than one year of £0.8m (2014: £0.6m)) 7 13.9 14.4 
Cash at bank – – 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (5.2) (5.9)
Net current assets 8.7 8.5 
Total assets less current liabilities 35.0 34.7 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (1.1) (6.1)
Net assets 33.9 28.6 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 2.4 2.2 
Share premium account 22.4 19.4 
Merger reserve 0.9 0.9 
Other reserves 0.7 0.5 
Equity reserve (0.2) (0.2)
Profit and loss account 7.7 5.8 
Shareholders’ funds 33.9 28.6 
The prior year financial statements were restated for material adjustments on adoption of FRS 102 in the current year.  
For more information see note 11.
These financial statements of Empresaria Group plc (Company registration number 03743194) were approved by the  
Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 1 March 2016. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Joost Kreulen Spencer Wreford 
Director  Director
Parent Company balance sheet STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
87 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Equity 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account  
£m
Total 
Shareholders’ 
funds 
£m
At 31 December 2013 as 
previously stated 2.2 19.4 0.9 0.3 (0.2) 3.9 26.5 
Changes on transition to  
FRS 102 (see note 11) – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 1 January 2014 as restated 2.2 19.4 0.9 0.3 (0.2) 3.8 26.4 
Profit for the financial year and 
total comprehensive income – – – – – 2.2 2.2 
Dividend paid on equity shares – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Movement in share options – – – 0.2 – – 0.2 
At 31 December 2014 2.2 19.4 0.9 0.5 (0.2) 5.8 28.6 
Profit for the financial year and 
total comprehensive income – – – – – 2.2 2.2 
Dividend paid on equity shares – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Issue of share capital 0.2 3.1 – – – – 3.3 
Expenses of equity shares issued – (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Movement in share options – – – 0.2 – – 0.2 
At 31 December 2015 2.4 22.4 0.9 0.7 (0.2) 7.7 33.9 
Equity comprises the following: 
• ‘Share capital’ represents the nominal value of equity shares.
• ‘Share premium account’ represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity 
shares, net of expenses of the share issue. 
• ‘Merger reserve’ relates to premiums arising on shares issued subject to the provisions of section 612 ‘Merger relief’ of  
the Companies Act 2006. 
• ‘Equity reserve’ represents amounts recognised in relation to historic expired options over a subsidiary company.
• ‘Other reserves’ represents movements in relation to share based payments.
• ‘Retained earnings’ represents accumulated profits less distributions and income/expense recognised in equity  
from incorporation.
Parent Company statement of changes in equity FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the financial year 2.2 2.2 
Adjustment for:
Impairment loss on investments 1.3 – 
Share-based payment expense 0.2 0.2 
Interest paid 0.1 0.2 
Interest received (0.2) (0.4)
Taxation 0.1 – 
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings (3.3) (2.0)
Decrease in debtors 0.1 2.7 
Increase in creditors 0.5 0.1 
Cash from operations 1.0 3.0 
Income taxes paid (0.1) (0.1)
Net cash generated from operating activities 0.9 2.9 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of investments (1.4) (2.2)
Interest received 0.2 0.4 
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings 3.3 2.0 
Net cash from investing activities 2.1 0.2 
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital 3.2 – 
Repayment of borrowings (7.4) (4.6)
Proceeds from new bank loans 1.6 – 
Interest paid (0.1) (0.2)
Dividends paid (0.3) (0.2)
Net cash used in financing activities (3.0) (5.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents – (1.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – 1.9 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – –
Parent Company cash flow statement STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
89 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  1 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The financial statements are for the twelve months ended 31 December 2015. The financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The prior year financial statements were restated for material adjustments on adoption of FRS 102 in the current year.  
For more information see note 11. 
These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (£).
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the period for the purposes of preparation of these 
financial statements. 
ACCOUNTING POLICY FOR THE COMPANY IN THE UNITED KINGDOM
Going concern
Details of going concern are given in note 1 to the Group accounts.
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year end.  
Exchange rate differences are dealt with through the income statement.
Tangible fixed assets
Depreciation is provided on cost in equal annual installments over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The rates of 
depreciation are as follows:
Fixtures, fittings and equipment: between one and five years.
Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Fixed asset investments
The Company’s investments in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less provisions for impairment. Any impairment 
is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Leases 
Assets obtained under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on acquisition and 
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to 
the capital element outstanding.
Operating lease rentals are charged to income in equal annual amounts over the lease term. 
Financial Instruments
Short-term debtors and creditors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable and other financial 
liabilities, including amounts due from and to subsidiary undertakings, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.  
Pension costs
Pension costs are charged to the income statement and relate to contributions made to pension schemes. Contributions to 
the scheme are charged to the income statement as they become due for payment. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
2 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own income statement 
for the year. The Company reported a profit after tax for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of £2.2m (2014: £2.2m). 
        
Notes to the parent Company financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
3 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
2015
£m
2014
£m
Staff costs 
Wages and salaries 1.1 1.1
Social security costs 0.1 0.2
Share based payments 0.2 0.2
1.4 1.5
Bonus costs 0.3 0.3
1.7 1.8
2015 
Number
2014
Number
Average monthly number of persons employed (including directors) 15 14
Pension contributions made in the year were £76,062 (2014: £57,046).
Details of Directors’ remuneration are given on pages 44 to 48.
4 DIVIDENDS
During 2015 Empresaria Group plc paid a dividend of £0.3m to its equity shareholders (2014: £0.2m). This amounted to 0.70 
pence per ordinary share (2014: 0.35 pence).
A final dividend is proposed for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 1.0 pence per ordinary share (2014: 0.70 pence). The 
proposed dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in 
these financial statements. If approved, the dividend will be paid on 31 May 2016 to members registered on 6 May 2016.
5 TANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table shows the significant additions and disposals of property, plant and equipment.
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 0.6
Additions –
At 31 December 2015 0.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 0.5
Charge for the year –
At 31 December 2015 0.5
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 0.1
At 31 December 2015 0.1
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
91 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  6 INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 32.0
Additions 4.0
Disposals (2.6)
At 31 December 2015 33.4
Impairment
At 1 January 2015 5.9
Impairment charge 1.3
At 31 December 2015 7.2
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 26.1
As 31 December 2015 26.2
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
6 INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS CONTINUED
Investments comprise of the following subsidiary companies:
Company
Class of  
share held
2015 Effective  
% holding
2014 Effective  
% holding
Country of  
Incorporation
Ball and Hoolahan Limited ‘A’ Ordinary 75 75 UK
BWP Holdco Limited ‘A’ Ordinary 51 51 UK
Creative People Limited Ordinary 90 80 UK
Empresaria Americas Finco Limited Ordinary 100 – UK
Empresaria Americas Limited* Ordinary 100 100 UK
Empresaria Asia Limited* Ordinary 100 100 UK
Empresaria GIT Holdings Limited* ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 100 100 UK
Empresaria GIT Limted Ordinary 100 100 UK
Empresaria Gulf Limited* Ordinary 100 100 UK
Empresaria Malaysia Holdings Limited Ordinary 100 100 UK
Empresaria Mexico Holdings Limited ‘A’ Ordinary 51 51 UK
Empresaria North America Limited ‘A’ Ordinary 93 – UK
Empresaria Philippines Holdings Limited ‘A’ Ordinary 70 70 UK
Empresaria Thailand Holdings Limited ‘A’ Ordinary 60 70 UK
EMR1000 Limited* Ordinary 100 100 UK
FastTrack Management Services Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 75 75 UK
Greycoat Investments Limited* Ordinary 100 100 UK
Greycoat Placements Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 90 90 UK
Interim Management International Limited* Ordinary 100 100 UK
LMA Recruitment Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 63 63 UK
Lumley Employment Company Limited ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 90 90 UK
Mac People Limited Ordinary 90 80 UK
Mansion House Recruitment Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 67 58 UK
McCall Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 82 82 UK
NMS Czech Holding Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 51 51 UK
Oval (888) Limited* ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 100 100 UK
Publishing People Limted Ordinary 90 80 UK
Reflex HR Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 84 84 UK
Teamsales Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 95 95 UK
The Recruitment Business Holdings Limited* ‘A’ Ordinary 90 100 UK
The Recruitment Business Limited Ordinary 90 80 UK
The Recruitment Store (2000) Limited Ordinary 90 80 UK
TLN 1004 Limited* ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 100 100 UK
TLN 1006 Limited* ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 100 100 UK
Web People Recruitment Limited Ordinary 90 80 UK
The Recruitment Business Pty Limited Ordinary 90 80 Australia
headwayaustria GesmbH Ordinary 100 100 Austria
headwayindustrie Austria Ordinary 100 100 Austria
Empresaria Group Chile Limitada* Ordinary 100 100 Chile
Marketing y Promociones S.A. ‘Alternattiva’ Ordinary 56 56 Chile
Instituto De Capacitacion Complementaria De La 
Empresa Limitada Ordinary 56 56 Chile
A-Consulting Limitada Ordinary 56 56 Chile
Alternattiva Empresa De Servicios Transitorios Limitada Ordinary 56 56 Chile
Empresaria Intelligence HR Consultants* Ordinary 100 100 China
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
93 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015   
Company
Class of  
share held
2015 Effective  
% holding
2014 Effective  
% holding
Country of  
Incorporation
GiT Consult Czech s.r.o Ordinary – 55 Czech
 Republic
Mediradix Oy* Ordinary 96 96 Finland
Empresaria Holding Deutschland GmbH* Ordinary 100 100 Germany
headwaylogistic administration GmbH Ordinary 100 100 Germany
headwayindustrie GmbH Ordinary 100 100 Germany
headwaylogistic GmbH Ordinary 100 100 Germany
headwaypersonal GmbH Ordinary 100 100 Germany
LMA Recruitment Limited Ordinary 100 100 Hong Kong
The Recruitment Business Limited Ordinary 90 100 Hong Kong
Interactive Manpower Solutions Private Limited* Ordinary 71 71 India
PT. Monroe Consulting Group ‘A’ Ordinary 90 80 Indonesia
PT. Learning Resources ‘A’ Ordinary 51 51 Indonesia
FINES K.K. Ordinary 51 51 Japan
FINES Tokyo K.K. Ordinary 51 51 Japan
Skillhouse Staffing Solutions K.K. Ordinary 90 90 Japan
Rhinefield Limited* Ordinary 100 100 Jersey
Monroe Consulting Group Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 100 100 Malaysia
Metis Consulting Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary – 55 Malaysia
Monroe Consulting Mexico S.A. de C.V. Class II Ordinary 51 51 Mexico
HR Philippines Holdings, Inc. Ordinary 70 70 Philippines
Monroe Consulting Philippines Inc Ordinary 70 70 Philippines
Learning Resources Solution Pte. Limited Ordinary 51 51 Singapore
LMA Recruitment Singapore Pte. Limited Ordinary 70 70 Singapore
McCall Singapore Pte. Limited Ordinary 82 82 Singapore
Monroe Consulting Singapore Pte. Limited Ordinary 100 100 Singapore
Gate1234 s.r.o. Ordinary 100 100 Slovakia
Monroe Holdings (Thailand) Company Limited Ordinary 60 70 Thailand
Monroe Recruitment Consulting Group Company Limited Ordinary 60 70 Thailand
Beresford Wilson and Partners FZ-LLC Ordinary 51 51 UAE
Empresaria USA, Inc. Common Stock 93 – USA
Pharmaceutical Strategies, LLC ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 93 – USA
Medical Recruitment Strategies, LLC ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 93 – USA
Recruitment Strategies Group, LLC ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 93 – USA
Recruitment Strategies, LLC ‘A’ and ‘B’ Ordinary 93 – USA
*  These companies are directly held by Empresaria Group plc. The remaining investments are indirectly held. The percentage shown is as at 31 December 2015 
and 31 December 2014.
The nature of each investment is the provision of staffing services and each entity operates in its country of incorporation. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
94
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
7 DEBTORS
2015
£m
2014
£m
Restated
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (including amounts falling due after more 
than one year of £0.8m (2014: £0.6m)) 12.8 13.6
Other debtors 0.4 0.3
Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 0.5
13.9 14.4
8 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank overdraft and loans due within one year 2.0 3.3
Trade creditors 0.2 0.1 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2.0 0.1
Deferred consideration and other creditors – 0.2
Accruals 1.0 0.8
5.2 4.5
9 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
2015
£m
2014
£m
Restated
Bank loans 1.1  6.1 
 1.1  6.1 
During the year the UK revolving credit facility of up to €10 million was repaid, replaced by new facilities in Germany provided 
directly to our subsidiary company. These new facilities have been secured by a parent company guarantee provided by the 
Company. As at 31 December 2015, the subsidiary company had utilised €5 million of a term loan and €2.2 million of an overdraft.
The term loan in the UK outstanding as at 31 December 2014 of £0.8 million was also repaid during the year. 
A new term loan of £4.5 million, which expires in 2018, was entered into to part fund the initial acquisition payment and the 
deferred consideration payments due in 2016 of Pharmaceutical Strategies. A $1.5 million overdraft facility was also entered 
into to provide working capital facilities to the acquired entity (see note 6 in the group accounts). As at 31 December 2015, 
£1.6 million of the term loan was utilised, with £0.5 million falling due within one year, and $1.1 million of the overdraft was 
utilised. Interest is payable at UK base rate plus 1.5% for the term loan and UK base rate plus 2.0% for the overdraft.
The interest rate on the UK bank overdrafts was fixed during the year at rates up to 1.0% above applicable currency  
base rates. 
The UK facilities are secured by a first fixed charge over all book and other debts given by the Company and certain of its UK 
subsidiaries. The value of the UK bank overdrafts at 31 December 2015 was £nil (2014: £2.0 million). 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank loans
Repayable within one year 0.5 0.6
Repayable between one and two years 0.5 6.1
Repayable between two and five years 0.6  - 
 1.6 6.7
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
95 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  10 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
Number of  
shares
2015
£m
Number of  
shares
2014
£m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each 49,019,132 2.4 44,562,847 2.2
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed income. All ordinary shares are entitled to 
receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All 
shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
In October 2015 the Company issued and allotted 4,456,285 new ordinary for £0.75 each. Nominal value per allotted share 
was £0.05. Expenses of issue of equity shares amounting to £120,000 were recognised against share premium. 
11 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO FRS 102 
This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial statements under Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 
102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition. The last 
financial statements under previous UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the date of transition to FRS 
102 was therefore 1 January 2014. The adoption of FRS 102 has led to a change in accounting policy for the treatment of 
‘permanent as equity’ loans to subsidiary undertakings which were previously measured at historic cost. Under FRS 102 
these loans to subsidiary undertakings are now revalued and exchange differences recognised in the income statement. 
Reconciliation of equity
Note
At 1 January 
2014
£m
At 31 December
2014
£m
Equity reported under previous UK GAAP 26.5 28.8
Adjustments to equity on transition to FRS 102
Adjustment 1 1 (0.1) (0.1)
Adjustment 2 2 – (0.1)
Adjustment 3 3 – –
Equity reported under FRS 102 26.4 28.6
Reconciliation of profit for 2014
2014
£m
Profit for the financial year under previous UK GAAP 2.3
Adjustment 2 2 (0.1)
Profit for the financial year under FRS 102 2.2
Notes to the reconciliation of equity and profit for 2014
Adjustment 1
Under previous UK GAAP some balances due to and from subsidiary undertakings were accounted for as ‘permanent as 
equity’ under SSAP 20 and were therefore measured at historic cost with revaluations not required. Revaluations are now 
required under FRS 102. At the date of transition to FRS 102 all unsettled balances with subsidiary undertakings were 
revalued and the impact taken to equity.
Adjustment 2
Adjustment 2 reflects the impact of the revaluation, discussed in adjustment 1 above, on balances held with subsidiary 
undertakings during 2014. The impact of this is taken to the income statement.
Adjustment 3
The company has reviewed all of its loans with subsidiary undertakings and determined that they are at market value and 
therefore measured at amortised cost. This has not resulted in any adjustments to the accounts. On review of the loan 
documentation some are determined to be repayable on demand and have therefore been reclassified. The net impact of 
this adjustment has had no impact on equity or profit. The reclassification as at 31 December 2014 was £5.3m from amounts 
falling due after more than one year to amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings within debtors and £1.4m from loans 
from subsidiary undertakings within creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year to amounts owed to subsidiary 
undertakings within creditors: amounts falling due within one year. 96
Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – OFFICERS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS
Officers and professional advisers
DIRECTORS
Joost Kreulen
Spencer Wreford
Anthony Martin
Penny Freer
Zach Miles
SECRETARY
James Chapman
REGISTERED OFFICE
Old Church House 
Sandy Lane
Crawley Down
Crawley
West Sussex 
RH10 4HS
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
03743194
NOMINATED ADVISER
Arden Partners plc
125 Old Broad Street
London
EC2N 1AR
NOMINATED BROKER
Arden Partners plc
125 Old Broad Street
London
EC2N 1AR
SOLICITORS
Osborne Clarke
2 Temple Back East
Temple Quay
Bristol 
BS1 6EG
BANKERS
HSBC plc
West & Wales Corporate Banking 
3 Rivergate 
Temple Quay 
Bristol  
BS1 6ER
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR
Deloitte LLP
London Gatwick Office
Global House
High Street
Crawley
West Sussex
RH10 1DL
REGISTRARS
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD8 0GA STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
97 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015   Empresaria Group plc     ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
An international 
specialist 
staffing group.
Balanced and 
diversified by 
geography and 
sector.
Empresaria Group plc
Empresaria Group plc
REGISTERED OFFICE
Old Church House 
Sandy Lane
Crawley Down
Crawley
West Sussex 
RH10 4HS
T: +44 (0) 1342 711 430  
F: +44 (0) 1342 711 449  
E: info@empresaria.com
www.empresaria.com
