 Supporting longer 
and healthier lives
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report
Operational highlights  1
At a glance  2
Chairman’s statement  4
Chief Executive Officer’s introduction  6
Business model 8
Markets  10
Strategy  12
Principal risks and uncertainties 16
Operational review  20
Financial review  26
Sustainability  30
Governance
Board of Directors  34
Corporate governance  36
Report of the audit committee  43 
Report of the nomination committee  46
Report of the remuneration committee  47
Directors’ remuneration report 49
Directors’ report  61
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  64
Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report  65
Group statement of comprehensive income  66
Group and parent company balance sheets  67
Group and parent company statements of cash ﬂows  68
Group and parent company statements 
of changes in equity  69
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements  70
Shareholder information  98
Directors and advisers  99
Five year Group ﬁnancial summary  100
Further information and investor 
updates can be found on our website 
at www.emisgroupplc.com.
Connecting IT across every 
major healthcare sector.
EMIS Group is a major provider of healthcare software, 
information technology and related services in the UK. 
Our solutions are widely used across every major UK healthcare setting from 
primary and community care, to high street pharmacies, secondary care and 
specialist services. This means the Group can facilitate the NHS’s connected 
care strategy across every major UK healthcare setting through organic 
growth, partnering or acquisition. This is a unique position. 
At a glance P2 Results in line with the Board’s expectations
• Further progress in like-for-like operating margin 
• Double digit revenue growth, albeit held back by timing 
of Secondary Care contracts
• Growth derived both organically and through businesses 
acquired in 2014 and 2015
• Maintained customary strong revenue visibility, order 
book and pipeline
• Grew market share in Primary Care and Child Community 
& Mental Health (CCMH), future growth secured in 
Community Pharmacy
Primary & Community Care – strong ﬁnancial performance
• Market leading position in UK primary care maintained 
with 55% market share (2014: 53%)
• EMIS Web® roll-out programme completed in England 
and Wales, progressing in Northern Ireland
• CCMH signiﬁcant contract win momentum and increase 
in market share to 12%, exceeding 10% target
• Acquired Pinbellcom in July 2015, a leading supplier 
of administration and compliance software
Community Pharmacy – proﬁtability and market share maintained 
• Market lead in independent pharmacy maintained with 
overall 36% share of the combined supermarket and 
independent market (2014: 36%)
• Secured a signiﬁcant contract with Lloyds Pharmacy 
that will grow market share to close to 50%
• Next generation dispensary pharmacy management 
product began successful pilots
Secondary & Specialist Care – mixed performance
• Good contributions from 2014 acquisitions Indigo 4 
and Medical Imaging
• Material contract wins and signiﬁcant pipeline 
in Specialist Care
• Secondary Care new management’s focus on 
operational improvements beginning to show results
• Slower than expected rate of contract awards held 
back Secondary Care
Current Trading & Outlook – in line with the 
Board’s expectations
• Strong revenue visibility with 79% recurring revenue
• Good order books and pipelines in all segments
• Improved ﬁnancial performance in Secondary Care 
expected in 2016
• Growth opportunities across all markets
Operational highlights
Total revenue
£155.9m +13%
73.2
86.3
105.5
137.6
155.9
15 14 13 12 11
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
£36.6m +12%
20.8
22.8
26.1
32.6
36.6
15 14 13 12 11
Recurring revenue
£123.0m +20%
61.1
69.4
81.4
102.7
123.0
15 14 13 12 11
1  Excludes impairment charges, release of contingent acquisition consideration, exceptional items, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles. Earnings per share calculations also adjust for the related tax and non-controlling interest impact.
2 Stated after deduction of capitalised development costs.
Adjusted EPS
1
45.3p +15%
27.7
30.8
34.0
39.5
45.3
15 14 13 12 11
Cash generated from operations
2
£36.5m -5%
27.1 27.4
32.6
38.3
36.5
15 14 13 12 11
Total dividend for the year
21.2p +15%
12.4
14.2
16.0
18.4
21.2
15 14 13 12 11
Financial highlights
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
1
Governance Strategic report Financial statements At a glance
Supporting longer and healthier lives through 
delivering integrated, excellent and innovative 
healthcare technology.
Who we are
EMIS Group is a major provider of healthcare software, information technology and related 
services in the UK. Our solutions are widely used across every major UK healthcare setting from 
primary and community care, to high street pharmacies, secondary care and specialist services. 
This means the Group can facilitate the NHS’s connected care strategy across every major UK 
healthcare setting through organic growth, partnering or acquisition. This is a unique position. 
Operational review P20 Strategy P12
Clinical software 
and services
EMIS Health includes our 
clinical software businesses 
(formerly EMIS, Ascribe, 
Digital Healthcare, Indigo 4 
and Rx Systems) covering the 
primary care, commissioning, 
community pharmacy, 
community care, mental health, 
secondary care and diabetic 
eye screening.
Non-clinical ICT 
solutions and services
Egton provides non-clinical 
products and services for 
customers across the EMIS 
Group and to others in the 
healthcare market.
Patient-facing 
and online services
With many millions 
of visitors each month, 
Patient® (www.patient.info) 
is our widely recognised, 
patient-facing brand – now 
able to take a global position 
having rebranded from 
Patient.co.uk in June 2015.
Provision of 
healthcare screening
EMIS Care is the highly 
successful and clinically 
well regarded healthcare 
screening arm of the business 
(previously operating under 
the Medical Imaging brand).
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
2
Strategic report We link up different healthcare sectors through integrated and interoperable technology that 
makes patient information available where it’s needed, when it’s needed. We help clinicians 
provide better, more efficient healthcare. This is how we support longer, healthier lives.
EMIS Group serves the following healthcare settings:
Primary & Community Care
Primary care – EMIS Web uses the latest technologies 
to deliver integrated healthcare. It is the most widely used 
clinical system and it provides healthcare organisations access 
to patient information in real time at the point of care which 
improves patient safety and clinical outcomes. 
Child, Community and Mental Health – Using EMIS Web 
in the community gives access to records and allows care 
plans to be created across different community settings. This 
helps provide a better experience for the patient through 
a joined up approach.
EMIS Mobile allows mobile working online or offline 
at the point of care.
Patient – This is the Group’s website that helps patients 
play a key part in their own healthcare through high 
quality information. It also supports professionals 
in clinical decision making by providing high quality, 
accurate and up to date reference material.
Egton – Provides non-clinical ICT solutions such as 
bespoke websites for healthcare professionals and other 
public and private sector organisations. It also supplies 
ICT infrastructure and hosting services.
Community Pharmacy
ProScript® is the most widely used system in the pharmacy 
software market. It efficiently manages the dispensing 
process and handles standard tasks such as labelling and 
endorsing, patient records, ordering and stock control.
Pharmacy Access enables pharmacies to view a 
summarised patient record and order repeat prescriptions 
direct from the GP to provide a joined up service.
Secondary Care
EMIS Group software is used by NHS Trusts in a wide range 
of secondary care settings.
Our systems are mainly used to manage hospital pharmacy 
and prescribing, unscheduled care and electronic patient 
records (including patient administration systems) and 
electronic messaging and order communications.
Specialist Care
EMIS Group provides IT systems for specialist care settings, 
offering expert and invaluable solutions to niche markets 
with speciﬁc requirements, such as image management 
and storage for the ophthalmology market. The Group 
also provides diabetic retinopathy services to patients.
Business model P8
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
3
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Double digit revenue growth was achieved 
overall although this was held back by the 
slower than expected rate of contract wins. 
The management team has placed signiﬁcant 
focus on operational improvements in 
EMIS Health Secondary Care which is 
now beginning to show results.
A major contract win in EMIS Health 
Community Pharmacy is expected to 
signiﬁcantly increase market share over 
the next 18 months, making the Group 
the largest software and services provider 
in the community pharmacy dispensary 
management market. EMIS Health Specialist 
Care remains the leading provider of diabetic 
eye screening software and other 
ophthalmology solutions.
Further details on all our achievements 
in 2015 are provided in the CEO Q&A 
on page 6 and the operational review 
starting on page 20.
Corporate governance
Corporate governance provides the 
framework that underpins everything 
we do. Given the size and stature of the 
business we aim to implement the highest 
level of governance standards and ensure 
that we are governed and managed with 
transparency, within a culture that upholds 
the importance of integrity and accountability.
Our detailed corporate governance report 
starts on page 36. Information on how we 
manage and mitigate risk is included on 
pages 16 and 17. 
Dividend
In line with our progressive dividend policy, 
the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend 
of 10.6p per share, which, together with the 
interim dividend of 10.6p, provides a total 
dividend for the year of 21.2p per share. 
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 
AGM on 26 April 2016, the ﬁnal dividend will 
be paid on 29 April 2016 to shareholders on 
the register on 1 April 2016.
Our People
The Group employs professional, highly 
skilled and dedicated employees who are 
committed to the vision and values of the 
Group. We continue to invest in our people 
and throughout the year have improved 
team integration across the Group, internal 
communications and reviewed our approach 
to career development. The outstanding 
contribution from our employees and 
their commitment to living our values in 
all that they do has ensured that the Group 
continues to move forward successfully. 
They ensure that we are able to deliver our 
strategy of providing patient-centred care 
through our unique portfolio of connected 
products and services.
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
15 March 2016
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present EMIS Group’s 
2015 annual report which sets out our 
performance over the year. 
EMIS Group has reported results in line 
with expectations with growth derived 
both organically and through businesses 
acquired in 2014 and 2015. Our EMIS 
Health Primary Care business maintained 
its market leading position and Child 
Community & Mental Health had another 
good year of progress. 
EMIS Group helps clinicians share 
vital information, facilitating better, 
more efficient healthcare.
Chairman’s statement
the next 18 months, making the Grou
the largest software and services pr
in the community pharmacy dispens
management market. EMIS Health Spe
Care remains the leading provider of d
eye screening software and other 
ophthalmology solutions.
Further details on all our achieveme
in 2015 are provided in the CEO Q&A
on page 6 and the operational review
starting on page 20.
its market leading position and Child 
Community & Mental Health had another 
good year of progress. 
Strategic report
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
4 Corporate governance P36
EMIS Group values
Camden GPs slash A&E workload
GPs are slashing the A&E workload at one of London’s busiest 
hospitals thanks to joined-up technology that is enabling 
them to send home more than 26,000 patients a year.
An urgent care centre (UCC) at the Royal Free Hospital’s A&E 
department is using integrated clinical IT system EMIS Web® 
to carry out rapid assessments on 50% of the 71,818 patients 
who present annually for emergency care between 10am-10pm. 
Aided by vital information from the GP record, they are now 
able to discharge half of these patients at the front door with 
basic health advice. 40% of the remainder are directed to their 
own doctor, or a GP-staffed UCC for further investigation 
and treatment. Only 10% of assessed patients are sent 
on to the main emergency department.
The UCC is run by Haverstock Healthcare, a federation of 
all 37 GP practices in Camden, representing over 255,000 
registered patients. The federation believes that by other 
clinicians treating over 40% of patients attending the Royal 
Free Hospital’s A&E, emergency doctors and nurses can 
focus their efforts on the most unwell patients, reducing 
waiting times and improving the overall quality of care.
Haverstock Healthcare’s medical director Dr Mike Smith said: 
“All of the GP practices in Camden use EMIS Web®, and we 
also have it in A&E. This means that when patients arrive at the 
door, we are able to check their medical history with their 
consent, and make fully informed clinical decisions. Without 
their notes, there is a risk of starting patients on a care 
journey that is not needed. For example, we are ordering 
fewer x-rays and blood tests than our emergency colleagues 
at other hospitals. EMIS Web helps make our job less 
time-consuming and arduous, and enables us to work 
more effectively.
“When patients arrive at the door, we are able to check their 
medical history with their consent, and make fully informed 
clinical decisions.”
“The majority of patients we see do not get sent back to their 
own GP. We send them home with written information on 
self-care, or to a pharmacist. The website Patient.info is a 
signiﬁcant resource, as it empowers patients by providing 
them with information about their condition and how to 
manage it at home. We keep a stock of its leaﬂets printed 
out and ready.”
Dr Smith said the next step in joined-up care was to enable 
EMIS Web to send an e-discharge letter to patients’ own 
GPs, providing them with timely and accurate information 
about their patients visit to A&E.
Matt Murphy, EMIS Health managing director for primary 
care and commissioning said: “We work hand in hand with 
clinicians to develop the technology that helps them to offer 
new models of care like this. We are proud to see it helping 
Camden GPs to deliver tangible improvements in patient care.”
We are caring 
about patients, our customers 
and one another
We are innovative 
with game-changing, entrepreneurial 
and pace-setting approach
We are joined up 
in our way of working, products 
and services
We are accountable 
purposeful, trustworthy and 
delivering what we promise
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officer’s introduction
We are not just in the business of changing 
technology, we’re also in the business of 
changing the culture of healthcare.
 Q What were the highlights of 2015?
There were so many, but to name a few:
Primary care completed the EMIS Web 
roll-out in England and Wales and got ready 
for implementation in Northern Ireland. 
Child, Community and Mental Health (CCMH) 
had many contract wins, increasing its 
market share well beyond our target of 10%. 
We also made real progress in integrating 
primary and community care. For example, 
EMIS Health is now the sole provider 
of primary and community care in nearly 
12% of English Clinical Commissioning 
Groups (CCGs) and over 14% of Scottish 
Health Boards. Patient moved to the .info 
top-level domain, extending its international 
reach, and continuing to help millions of 
patients to have access to their own medical 
records anytime anywhere. Egton supported 
both our Group and customers in a myriad 
of ways. Community pharmacy worked 
behind the scenes on a very lengthy and 
complex procurement that has now reached 
a successful agreement and will make it 
the dispensary management market leader, 
both in terms of product penetration and 
market share. It also secured funding from its 
ﬁrst CCG to closely connect pharmacies with 
primary care. In Secondary care 
an all new management team laid down 
ﬁrm foundations for further growth in 
acute settings, links between urgent and 
emergency care, and moved into new 
premises where everyone could work 
together rather than in physical silos. Finally, 
Specialist care successfully retendered a 
number of its English diabetic retinopathy 
screening services, helping keep millions 
suffering from diabetes safe from blindness 
until 2020 and beyond.
Operational review P20
CEO’s 
 Q&A
 Q Why rebrand?
EMIS Group has grown signiﬁcantly over 
the past few years. We now work in every 
major healthcare setting from primary care 
and community pharmacy, to community, 
mental health, secondary and specialist 
care. We wanted to simplify the message 
for our customers and other stakeholders, 
and align ourselves to our customers’ needs 
by focusing on integrated care and joining 
up working between all health sectors.
Patient is targeted at patients and 
citizens. With many millions of visitors a 
month, it’s an internationally recognised 
and respected brand that resonates with 
its audiences. Having rebranded as Patient 
at the beginning of June and changed the 
website address to www.patient.info, it is 
perfectly positioned to build its already 
extensive international following.
Egton’s products and services are used by 
the customers of several of our divisions, 
as well as those of our competitors in the 
healthcare market. Egton’s products are 
also used by the legal, education and retail 
sectors. For this reason, we have retained 
it as a separate brand to support its growth 
in all sectors.
Medical Imaging is to be rebranded 
to become EMIS Care, and is the most 
experienced private company in the UK 
in providing ophthalmic imaging services 
to NHS Trusts.
At a glance P2
Health
top-le
reach
patien
record
both o
of wa
behin
comp
a succ
the di
both
marke
ﬁrst C
prima
an all
ﬁrm f
acute
emerg
prem
togeth
Speci
numb
scree
suffer
until 2
P20
 Reducing health 
inequalities
Strategic report
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
6 Vision: 
“  To support longer and healthier lives for everyone 
by providing integrated, excellent and innovative 
healthcare IT for patients and those involved in their care.”
Reducing 
emergency 
admissions
Working more 
productively
 Q  What are the challenges in the 
market and how can you help? 
Funding pressures are expected to be 
pronounced in the NHS, with NHS England’s 
‘Five Year Forward View’ suggesting that 
its £30bn funding challenge will be met by 
£22bn of NHS savings and £8bn of additional 
funding. As a consequence, NHS providers 
desperately need to update their technology 
to help staff work more productively. 
So whether building our own solutions, 
partnering with the best in the world or 
growing through acquisition the Group is 
increasingly able to help the NHS deliver 
integrated care through joined up systems.
EMIS Group is well positioned to deliver 
the integrated technology offering that 
NHS Trusts increasingly seek. We are also 
well placed to support CCGs in delivering 
health and social care integration as we 
not only support NHS commissioners 
but also work with local authorities.
Working with all our key stakeholders to 
join up products including major initiatives 
between primary and secondary care 
(especially in urgent care) and also between 
community pharmacy and primary care will 
continue to be a key focus for us in 2016.
Markets P10
 Q What other opportunities are there?
For clinicians and care professionals, 
being able to offer a 21st century service to 
patients and clients means having access 
to all, but only, the appropriate information, 
from across health and social care services. 
Technology and data helps to improve the 
quality of services available to all of us.
Interoperability has always been 
important to EMIS Group. EMIS Health 
has become the ﬁrst UK clinical systems 
provider to implement new open standards 
for interoperability in the NHS – enabling 
clinicians using its systems to securely 
share data with any other third party 
system across health and social care. 
This milestone puts in place a solid 
foundation for EMIS Health to rapidly 
evolve innovative interoperable services. 
Initially, third party systems will be able 
to securely obtain real-time primary care 
patient information, subject to tight 
information governance controls.
There are opportunities for growth 
particularly in the traditional community, 
pharmacy and secondary care markets 
as well as in the gaps between them. 
Following our success in the provision 
of screening for diabetic retinopathy 
we know there are many more people we 
can help. It’s all about preventative care 
– joining up and striving for efficiency. 
Patients and carers also need better access 
to digital services – including access to their 
own records – to take more control of their 
care and to help them manage their own 
health, wellbeing and treatment.
Strategy P12
 
 Q Describe EMIS Group
We are not just in the business of changing 
technology, we’re also in the business 
of changing the culture of healthcare.
Chris Spencer
Chief Executive Officer
15 March 2016
Optimised 
medication
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
7
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Business model
Facilitating improved clinical outcomes and 
efficiency through connected technology services.
Redesigning diabetes care with the patient at the centre 
Diabetes is one of the big health challenges faced by the 
city of Liverpool, in common with a lot of areas across the UK.
“Designing the service around the clinical need of our patients has 
been key,” explained Kate Warriner, Healthy Liverpool digital care 
and innovation programme lead and iLinks managerial lead. As 
part of the Healthy Liverpool vision, healthcare teams across the 
region are working together to ensure that care of diabetic patients 
is proactive, tailored and provided locally in the community. 
Technology from EMIS Health is helping to turn the service 
redesign into reality.
A convenient service for patients 
Patients whose conditions can be managed by regular 
appointments are being seen in any of six local clinics across 
the city. Clinicians use EMIS Web to view up to date medical 
records from everyone involved in the patient’s care. “When a 
patient comes to their appointment, clinicians have everything 
they need in front of them,” explains Jan Fennell-Rutherford, 
Liverpool diabetes partnership operational manager, 
Liverpool CCG. 
“There’s no reason for anything to be missed, so it can reduce 
errors or delays in care. The clinicians love it. They can make better 
clinical decisions because they can see the impact of every aspect 
of the patient’s care plan, rather than just their own.
“Patients give us positive feedback about how convenient 
their appointments are now. For a patient living in Speke for 
example, it used to be a 40 minute bus ride to the nearest 
hospital, with often a wait to be seen once they were there. 
Now patients can visit a clinic local to home or work. It gives 
them the ﬂexibility to ﬁt their appointments into their lives.
Focusing on self-care 
“We use these appointments to look at self-care and self-
management of the patient’s diabetes. Improvements 
to lifestyles and wellbeing can often lead to a reduction 
in medication. We can catch any issues early, preventing 
patients from needing acute hospital care.
Better care for the ‘super six’
Diabetics in the city who need more care continue with 
hospital appointments to manage their health – 
• Innovative connected 
technology services
• Highly skilled people
• Trusted brand
• Strong relationships and 
strategically aligned with 
government, partners and 
the markets we serve
• Strong revenue visibility 
• Responsible leadership
• Strong culture of caring for 
both patients and customers
Our key inputs
• Support the constantly evolving 
landscape of healthcare through 
well-implemented dynamic 
innovative software and services
• Listen to customers and citizens 
and deliver what they need
• Deliver on our connected 
product strategy to facilitate 
the use of clinical information
• Maximise the return on our 
resources by joining them up and 
making them super-efficient
• Ensure that information is 
available where it’s needed, 
when it’s needed
Strategy P12
What we do
Patients
Secondary & Specialist Care
Primary & Community Care
Community Pharmacy
Interoperability
Comprehensive support
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
8
Strategic report • Join up healthcare through 
innovative IT to give better access 
to information and so better, 
faster and cheaper patient care
• Deliver planned returns to 
customers, clinicians, citizens, 
investors and other stakeholders
• Ensure that healthcare maximises 
the beneﬁts that can be attained 
through clinically focussed, 
innovative software
• Strong cash generation through 
recurring revenues 
• Retain and grow market share 
• We are used in every major 
healthcare setting directly 
supporting patients and clinicians 
to provide safe and efficient care
• We are clinically focused 
• We are pioneering
•  We are joining up healthcare
• We care about what we do
• We assist in providing better 
patient care
• We are their trusted supplier
Case study – 
Community Pharmacy
P11
Case studies – Secondary 
& Specialist Care
P19
Through providing:
• Software licences
• Software maintenance 
and support
• Hosting services
• Hardware installation, 
maintenance and support
• Training, consultancy 
and implementation
• Other support services, 
including screening services
Financial review P26
those who fall under the ‘super six’ categories of diabetes, 
where the condition has the potential to be more complex, 
for example if they are pregnant, under 24 or diabetic 
foot care patients. 
The initiative is having a positive impact for these patients 
too. “By concentrating the acute services on the serious cases, 
everyone is receiving the level of care that’s appropriate to their 
condition. For example patients on an insulin pump should be 
seen four times per year; previously they were only being seen 
twice. Under the new initiative, we can see them four times per 
year and pick up any issues much earlier.” 
Future plans 
It doesn’t stop there. “We’ll be looking at improvements to services 
providing care to patients with other long term conditions, such 
as respiratory illnesses, building on our experience of redesigning 
the diabetes service,” said Kate. “More services will be provided 
to patients out of hospital and in the community using joined-up 
technology from EMIS Web – it means a more convenient service 
for patients, provided by clinicians who have all the information 
they need.”
How we add value How we generate revenue Why customers choose us
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
9
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 4. Secondary Care
Markets
Innovation in new ways of delivering care.
The NHS Five Year Forward View supports how the health service needs to 
adapt to take advantage of the opportunities offered by technology.
Experts predict a funding gap for healthcare in England by 2020/2021.
Additional funding 
by the government
Efficiency savings 
supplied by IT
New ways of working 
(“new models of care”) 
such as integration of 
health and social care 
and  a focus on self care 
supplied by IT
Ageing society
ALZHEIMERS
DIABETES
COPD
Rise in long term 
and multiple 
conditions
Increasing 
expectation
Increasing costs 
of providing care
Limited  
productivity  
gains
Constrained 
public 
resources
A stretched 
workforce
Demand: Supply:
Why?
NHS Five Year Forward View suggests:
• Providing fully interoperable electronic health records so that patients’ records are largely paperless
2
• Family doctor appointments, patient records and electronic and repeat prescribing available routinely on-line everywhere
2
• Building capability and public understanding that pharmacies and on-line resources can help deal with minor ailments
1,3
• Using technology – such as smart phones to improve patients’ access to information alongside innovative apps
1
• Bringing together hospital, GP, administrative and audit data to support the quality improvement, research 
and the identiﬁcation of patients who most need health and social care support
2,4
How EMIS Group  
can deliver:
Ambition for a digitised health and care system
That by 2020 all care records – including social care – will be digital, real time and interoperable.
2. Primary & Community Care
1. Patient
3. Community Pharmacy
How can we do things differently?
How will the gap be closed?
5. Specialist Care
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
10
Strategic report Wolverhampton CCG to connect pharmacies and GPs
Community pharmacists and GPs in Wolverhampton will 
soon be able to offer joined up healthcare to thousands 
of patients, using cutting edge record-sharing technology.
Wolverhampton clinical commissioning group (CCG) and 
EMIS Health have reached an agreement to jointly offer 
funding towards Pharmacy Access, a software package 
to enable local community pharmacies and GPs to securely 
share vital patient information and streamline the ordering 
and auditing of repeat prescriptions.
Pharmacies using the EMIS Health ProScript PMR system 
will be able to request repeat prescriptions electronically 
from GPs using the EMIS Web clinical system.
Pharmacists will also be able to view key clinical data in 
the GP record, including adverse reactions and allergies, 
historically prescribed acute and repeat medications, and 
test results such as the International Normalised Ratio (INR) 
thyroid function, blood pressure and blood sugars, amongst 
others. It will also facilitate advanced and enhanced services 
such as Medicines Use Reviews and the New Medicine Service.
The CCG is now inviting all 27 pharmacies and 35 GP 
practices in the area using ProScript and EMIS Web 
systems to roll out the technology. 
The rollout will incorporate robust protocols to protect 
patient conﬁdentiality. Patients must provide documented 
consent before the pharmacist can view their GP record. 
Access to the GP record within the pharmacy is governed 
by highly secure role-based access controls enforced by 
NHS Smart Cards.
Sheila Gregory, project implementation officer at 
Wolverhampton CCG said: “We are excited to be offering 
pharmacists Pharmacy Access, which shows what is 
possible with joined up healthcare. We look forward to 
measuring the clinical and administrative beneﬁts over 
the next few months as the project gets up and running.”
Ian Taylor, managing director of community pharmacy 
at EMIS Health said: “This is a timely project that supports 
the pharmacy profession’s desire to play a greater role 
in the care of patients, through secure and relevant access 
to patient information.
“It will also beneﬁt patients themselves, by better joining 
up their care.”
Pharmacy Access is currently in place in over 150 other 
community pharmacies across the country.
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
11
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Strategy
Considerable progress in integrating care, 
connecting our own and third party products 
and centralising Group services.
How did we achieve this?
• Signiﬁcant progress towards formation of a single software 
development function across EMIS Group in 2016 to bring 
efficiencies and shared learning.
• Primary, community and commissioning business models 
harmonised. As well as providing a cohesive service to 
primary and out-of-hospital providers and commissioners, 
this platform will enable closer working with in-hospital 
and community pharmacy teams to support our integrated 
customers and health economies.
• Centralisation of Group services bringing efficiencies.
• Vidyo (local hosted video conferencing) rolled out to the 
entire Group to facilitate virtual collaboration and reduce 
travel cost and time.
How did we achieve this?
• Roll-out of EMIS Web in England and Wales completed.
• Five year contract signed with AAH Pharmaceuticals 
not only extending the current agreement covering 
AAH customers but also to include the whole Lloyds 
Pharmacy estate.
• Acquired Pinbellcom, a leading supplier of administration 
and compliance software.
• 2014 acquisitions of Indigo 4 and Medical Imaging both 
performing well.
• Signiﬁcant progress towards the introduction of 
an enterprise resource planning solution for ﬁnance, 
procurement and warehousing.
2015 achievements
Financial review P26
1
Integrated departments
2
Financial performance
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
12
Strategic report How did we achieve this?
• Development of a transformational people strategy. The HR 
team has been restructured and an HR Business Partner 
model introduced for each business with a centralised 
services team providing administrative support.
• Launch of our ﬁrst Group-wide employee engagement 
survey, Your Say. Results brieﬁngs took place across all 
of our teams. Local action plans were created, as was 
a wider cross-Group action plan that aims to join up our 
people and processes. “Town Hall” sessions took place 
across the Group at least annually. 
• Board level development has strengthened the senior 
team, whilst individual and team training courses, NVQs 
and induction programmes have continued to take place 
in all our businesses.
• Dedicated internal communication function created. 
A company intranet shares news and resources across 
the whole Group, whilst a bi-monthly magazine, Link, 
brings to life stories about our people, our customers 
and our competitive environment. 
• Enhanced approach to recruitment, moving to a candidate 
centric approach with the most up to date recruitment 
tools and methods.
How did we achieve this?
• Secured ﬁnal lot of GPSoC-R contract with NHS England.
• Successful delivery of Phase 1 of the integrated care 
contract for the entirety of Gibraltar, initially connecting 
primary, community, outpatient clinics, A&E and community 
pharmacy and planning for the balance services including 
extended acute care.
• There are now 44 CCGs across the UK where EMIS Web 
is the single primary care system. 21 of these have EMIS 
Web as the single system across both primary 
and community. 
• Five year contract signed with AAH Pharmaceuticals 
not only extending the current agreement covering 
AAH customers but also to include the whole Lloyds 
Pharmacy estate.
• Launch of EMIS Health Pathﬁnder programme with 
12 selected health economies working closely on strategy 
alignment, product and service development. Workstreams 
include interoperability, mobile working, beneﬁts realisation, 
enterprise working and data sharing models.
Sustainability P30
Primary 
Care
A&E
Outpatient 
prescribing
Community 
Pharmacy
Phase 1, Gibraltar, connecting:
Gibraltar launch day:
  The ﬁrst baby born in Gibraltar today was 
registered by the maternity team on EMIS 
Health systems. 
3
People
4
Strategic customer engagement
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
13
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Strategy continued
How did we achieve this?
• Clinical software businesses rebranded as EMIS 
Health emphasising the commitment to provision 
of integrated solutions.
• Group integrated product board and product evolution 
roadmap in place to ensure alignment across the Group.
• Child Health product completed and enhanced Mental 
Health product in use in Greater Glasgow and Clyde.
• EMIS Group drugs database extended to support 
community pharmacy and work on-going on knowledge 
bases for use in secondary care pharmacy to reduce 
duplication, wasted resource and potential error. 
• Full Enterprise Working is in early adopter phase (EAP). 
This supports GP federated working, and extended 
hours in primary care and urgent care.
• Resource Publisher is also in EAP, allowing users to share 
EMIS Web templates, protocols, searches and concepts.
• All new products now based on the EMIS Health Framework 
(EHF), which is the underlying scalable and modular 
platform for EMIS Web.
• Dispensing Doctors is in pilot enabling dispensing 
GP Practices to use the ProScript community pharmacy 
solution to dispense electronic prescriptions via EPSr2. This 
further strengthens the links between general practice and 
community pharmacy both at product and customer levels.
How did we achieve this?
• EMIS Health’s Personal Health Record (PHR) – integrated 
with Apple’s HealthKit – enables UK citizens to manage 
their own health in partnership with their GP and other 
health professionals. Patients connect with their PHR via 
the Patient Access smartphone app, which can also be 
used to book GP appointments and view life-long 
medical records.
• EMIS Web made available in Urgent Care Centre at Royal 
Free Hospital – impact on clinical care by reducing A&E 
admissions. See page 5.
• Pilots underway in East London to assess the use 
of EMIS Web for primary care in a pharmacy setting.
• Committed to interoperability enabling EMIS Health to 
interoperate with any other healthcare supplier. As well 
as direct (point-to-point) solutions also ﬁrst to market 
with one-to-many interoperability through adoption 
and delivery of NHS open API standards. This cements 
existing agreements and opens up new opportunities 
especially in new models of care.
2015 achievements continued
Apple 
Health
Patient
Access
EMIS 
Web
  The decision by suppliers to openly interoperate 
with all other systems using open initiatives, free 
of charge, is pivotal to the future of healthcare.  
Beverley Bryant, Director of Digital Technology, 
NHS England
 
5
One system product and brand strategy
6
Improved clinical outcomes
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
14
Strategic report How did we achieve this?
• Patient.co.uk rebranded as Patient.info enabling greater 
international availability.
• Core functionality within Patient Access and online 
services enabled by 99% of all the Group’s GP practices.
• Patient won nine awards including in both health 
categories in this year’s Website of the Year Awards 
and voted as Britain’s Best Health Website and 
Most Popular Health Website.
• National and international expanded opportunities 
investigated and now moving toward implementation.
How did we achieve this?
• Acquisition of Medical Imaging (now EMIS Care) secured 
leading position in the outsourced diabetic retinopathy 
eye screening market.
• Signiﬁcant level of tenders for the provision of diabetic 
screening services across the country. Future screening 
provision business secured for at least ﬁve years through 
winning four material contracts across England.
Operational review P20
1. One EMIS Group
2. Deliver ﬁnancial performance
3. People: communication engagement and development
4. Strategic customer and stakeholder engagement
5. Deliver a “one system brand and product strategy”
6. Differentiate through improved clinical outcomes
7. Further enhancement of Patient Online Services
8. Consolidate clinical services provision
Our 2016 priorities
  Our uptake for diabetic eye screening was 
72-73% in 2011 against a target of 70%. But now 
we’re hitting 85% uptake. And that’s with an 
ever-growing patient list. 
  Suzanne Beshara, Programme Manager 
Bradford and Airedale NHS Diabetic 
Eye Screening Programme
7
New Patient online services
8
Becoming a clinical services provider
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
15
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties
Management of risk.
Description of risk and link to strategic priorities How we mitigate the risk
Healthcare structure and procurement changes
 
The Group is dependent on the strategic direction of the NHS 
in respect of how it plans to make use of available IT innovations 
to reduce its costs and improve its efficiency.
The ability to sell hosted and managed products to the healthcare 
community can be affected by the way the NHS procures goods 
and services. The NHS is constantly looking for ways to reduce 
its cost base and improve efficiency. This may include how it is 
organised and how it procures goods and services, including 
outsourcing services.
There is a risk that EMIS Group’s services are not aligned with the 
strategic requirements of the healthcare providers or that these 
requirements change with successive governments.
To ensure it is not disadvantaged by changes in healthcare structures 
and procurement policies, EMIS Group ensures that its strategies are 
closely aligned with government policies.
Speciﬁc actions taken to mitigate this risk include:
• close engagement with the NHS at both strategic and tactical levels; 
• working to ensure the Group is perceived not just as a GP supplier but 
as a supplier of connected IT healthcare solutions covering a wide range 
of healthcare sectors including pharmacies, secondary care, specialist, 
community social care and mental health as well as primary care;
• proactive response to published NHS plans and changes in structures e.g. 
the NHS Five Year Forward View and the development of GP federations;
• regular monitoring and analysis of our markets and competitors;
• development of clear, integrated market and product strategies;
• ongoing review of our sales team structures including establishing 
an integrated sales board to better manage pan-healthcare economy 
procurement structures;
• development of a strategic mental health solution; and
• development of next generation pharmacy software.
Our Risk Management Framework
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is 
appropriately managed across the Group. The Group maintains 
risk registers for each operating division, as well as one for corporate 
and functional risks. These are consolidated to form the Group’s 
strategic risk register. This register is considered by the CEO and 
then reviewed and discussed by the Group Executive Board before 
being submitted at each Board meeting. The audit committee 
provides independent review and challenge, and Internal Audit 
provides independent assurance on key risks.
Risks are rated as to their likelihood of occurring and potential 
impact. Each risk is assigned to an appropriate individual and all 
mitigation and action plans are recorded.
The table below shows the principal risks and uncertainties 
identiﬁed. These risks are not intended to be an extensive 
analysis of all risks that may arise in the ordinary course 
of business or otherwise.
The principal ﬁnancial risks are disclosed in note 3 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Chief Executive Officer 
Review and input
Group Executive Board
Operational risk input 
Corporate risk review
Divisional risk registers
Board of Directors 
Ownership and monitoring
Corporate governance P36 Audit committee P43
Audit committee 
Independent review 
and challenge
Group internal audit 
Independent, objective 
assurance
2 4
5 6 7 8
3 1
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
16
Strategic report Description of risk and link to strategic priorities How did we mitigate the risk?
Product integration and interoperability
The Group’s core strategy is to provide IT healthcare systems, across 
a range of healthcare sectors, which are integrated with each other 
and interoperable with other non-Group systems. This efficiently 
aligns technology and workﬂows and enables realisation of the 
best clinical safety and ﬁnancial outcomes.
Failure to achieve this could have a signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s 
ability to meet the government’s healthcare technology requirements and 
to sell its products and services to the NHS and others in the longer term.
In order to achieve its objectives the Group has, in recent years, 
acquired several businesses across a range of healthcare sectors. There 
is a risk that these businesses do not function effectively as a Group, 
impacting on the success of product integration.
The Group has taken a range of actions designed to bring together 
its products and to create synergies across the Group.
• Board level responsibility for product and acquisition integration 
with a clear strategic plan and regular monitoring;
• established Group standards to share and mandate best practice in, for 
example, software development, customer support, project implementation, 
clinical safety governance and cross-sector product integration;
• regular meetings of integration boards;
• all integrated product implementations include a clinical safety review;
• Group product branding introduced under a common brand – 
EMIS Health;
• open API strategy to enable the Group to work with any other 
supplier; and
• extending connectivity between the Group and third party 
provider solutions.
Software development and hosting
The Group’s core products are critical to the efficient and effective 
operation of a wide range of healthcare organisations and they are 
designed and developed to meet the exacting standards of our key 
customers and the needs of patients and carers.
The technical or physical failure of our systems, during development, 
implementation or in everyday use could lead to disruption or 
complete service denial of high proﬁle public services.
The Group physically hosts a signiﬁcant proportion of the patient 
information that supports our systems and this creates signiﬁcant 
risks associated with information security and system reliability. 
These risks are covered separately in more detail under 
Information Governance.
In order to ensure the secure and effective development, implementation 
and hosting of new and existing products, the Group has in place a range 
of mitigating actions including: 
• development brought together as a Group function and a strategy 
to lead effective development prioritisation;
• a staged new system implementation process that minimises 
disruption and tests system operation on pilot systems before 
wider implementation;
• ring-fencing of development teams to preserve sensitive data security 
and integrity;
• ISO certiﬁed secure IT hosting facilities. Dual hosting sites operating 
in real-time enable almost instant fail-over; and
• disaster recovery plans in place, tested, externally challenged 
and reviewed regularly.
Recruitment and retention
The Group is reliant on the skills and knowledge of its people in a 
wide range of areas, but especially in software development, clinical 
safety and information technology systems. 
Failure to recruit and retain an appropriate number of suitably 
qualiﬁed people in critical areas could lead to a deterioration in the 
quality of our products and services. This could lead to us failing to 
meet our customers’ needs, losing their business and to the Group 
failing to deliver expected ﬁnancial returns to shareholders.
Key actions implemented or commenced during the year include:
• development of a people strategy with a wide-ranging remit to review 
practices across the Group;
• providing an environment for improved communication, engagement 
and development including a Group-wide intranet;
• recruitment of budgeted resource to deliver planned projects;
• succession plans in place for key roles, which are regularly reviewed;
• undertaking a pay and beneﬁts review to establish greater 
consistency across the Group and benchmarking externally;
• employee satisfaction surveys including suggestions for improvement; and
• investment in modern, inspirational and motivational working 
environments for employees.
2 5
7 6
4
2 3
2 4
6 8
3
6 8
1
1
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
17
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Viability statement
While there is no requirement for the Group 
to comply fully with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Directors have 
voluntarily adopted the provision of 
section C.2.2 and assessed the viability of 
the Group over a three year period, taking 
into account the Group’s current position 
and the potential impact of the principal 
risks and uncertainties set out on 
pages 16 to 18. 
The Directors have determined that a 
three year period to March 2019 constitutes 
an appropriate period over which to provide 
the Group’s viability statement. This is the 
period focussed on by the Board during 
the strategic planning process and is also 
aligned to typical contract lengths across 
much of the Group (three to ﬁve years).
For the purpose of making this statement, 
the Board has taken into account its ongoing 
robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. Each 
year, the Board considers a three year 
bottom-up strategic plan together with 
the ability of the Group to raise ﬁnance 
and undertake mitigating actions to avoid 
or reduce the impact or occurrence of the 
underlying risks.
In addition, the following risks were 
subjected to enhanced stress testing: 
healthcare structure and procurement 
changes, integration, software development 
and hosting, recruitment and retention, 
and reputational risk through information 
governance and security. The Group’s 
strong contractual forward visibility of 
revenues, signiﬁcant cash resources and 
strong cash conversion provide some 
inherent protection against unexpected 
shocks to the business model. Also, the 
ability to adjust the Group’s cost base 
protects its viability in the face of adverse 
economic conditions and/or political events.
Based upon the robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and their 
stress-testing based on an assessment of 
the Group’s prospects, as described above, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the period to March 2019, 
subject to the following key assumptions:
• funding for the business will 
continue to be available in all 
plausible market conditions;
• mitigating actions to reduce the 
impact of principal risk can be 
successfully undertaken, including 
cost management; and
• the political environment in which 
the NHS exists will not result in major 
structural change to the market 
in which the Group operates.
Description of risk and link to strategic priorities How did we mitigate the risk?
Information Governance and Security
The Group is responsible for hosting over 40 million individual 
patient records containing conﬁdential and sensitive personal data. 
Our systems contribute towards the efficient operation of GP surgeries, 
hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers through the 
secure, reliable and accurate processing of such information.
There are signiﬁcant risks associated with managing and hosting 
such information, including loss, theft or corruption of data. 
The Group recognises that the trust placed in it by Government, 
by healthcare providers and by citizens is fundamental to the 
success of our business. Our reputation rests on our integrity and the 
quality of stewardship we apply to such sensitive and valuable data.
The Group invests heavily in ensuring that the physical and logical controls 
in place over hardware and software systems are strong. Mitigating controls 
in place and actions taken to manage this risk include:
• strong physical controls over building and server room access;
• attainment and maintenance of ISO 27001 certiﬁcation, including 
an in-house ISO quality assurance team;
• regular penetration testing and denial of service attack simulations;
• strong information governance culture including NHS standard 
training for all relevant employees;
• documented and externally-tested business continuity and disaster 
recovery plans; and
• maintenance of duplicate servers at physically separate locations 
with virtually real-time failover capability.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
3 6
8
4 1
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
18
Strategic report EMIS Health’s ePMA improves patient safety in East Lancashire
Improving uptake of screening services in Bradford and Airedale 
East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust (ELHT) is seeing 
a dramatic reduction in drug chart errors, combined 
with improvements in guideline adherence supported by 
prescribing decision support, using EMIS Health’s software. 
By having an integrated ePMA (E-Prescribing and 
Medicines Administration), eMM (electronic medicines 
management), pharmacy dispensing and stock control 
solution, provided by EMIS Health, interfaced to a dispensing 
robot, ELHT have improved operational efficiencies. Pharmacy 
technicians and pharmacists are enabled to inﬂuence 
prescribing at ward level and process supply requests 
electronically rather than sending paper to the dispensary. 
Human error is reduced by removing transcription errors 
and the use of templates to select prescriptions. Technology 
speeds up the entire medication requesting process so 
the potential to work with more reliable turnaround 
times for ‘Orders to Pharmacy’ is being realised.
Paperless drug charts reduce medication errors
One of ELHT’s core clinical indicators for reporting incidents 
is medication errors. They have measured a sample of 
paper drug charts from non-ePMA wards and noted that 
98.7% of paper drug charts had an error of some form. 
Using ePMA immediately eliminated most of these errors. 
When examining ‘charts’ for ﬁve ePMA wards in the same 
time period, only three recorded errors were reported. 
Spelling and legibility issues plus incomplete prescriptions 
are things of the past. 
Reliable and robust auditing and reporting
Ruth Townson, ePMA lead for the trust, commented: 
“ePMA has signiﬁcantly improved our audit capability; 
it has given us the ability to really drill down into the 
information and perform root cause analysis if an 
issue arises.”
An award-winning diabetic eye screening service in 
Bradford has seen a 10-15% improvement in patient 
screening services since being run by EMIS Care.
If undetected, diabetic retinopathy can lead to 
irreversible blindness. But when caught early, 
it can be treated and blindness prevented. 
Suzanne Beshara, Programme Manager, Bradford 
and Airedale NHS Diabetic Eye Screening Programme 
explains: “Our uptake was 72-73% in 2011 against a target 
of 70%. But now we’re hitting 85% uptake. And that’s with 
an ever-growing patient list – we had 22,000 patients 
nine years ago, now we have 35,000.” 
A complex issue 
Suzanne explains: “A patient’s vision is usually unaffected 
until retinopathy gets to the most serious point. So a lot 
of people assume they’re ﬁne and don’t come for their 
appointments. Our job is to convince them to come in, 
be screened, and sort out any issues now while they can.” 
Improving processes 
EMIS Care provides full administration of the service. 
Suzanne explains: “We changed our way of offering 
appointments - we tested sending out a pre-booked 
date and time instead of an invitation to book. It worked 
– we measured the effect of this change and our 
attendance rates increased.” 
Support from technology 
The project has been supported by EMIS Health software 
– the UK’s leading provider in diabetic retinopathy 
screening software. 
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
19
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Operational review
Another strong year for EMIS Group.
Chief Executive’s overview 
EMIS Group had another strong year in 
2015, delivering a 13% increase in revenue 
and a 12% rise in adjusted operating proﬁt, 
achieved both organically and through 
the recently acquired businesses. Overall, 
results for the year were in line with the 
Board’s expectations and the Group 
increased its like-for-like operating 
margin from 23.7% to 24.4%. 
In Primary & Community Care, the Group 
made further market share gains, growing 
the number of Clinical Commissioning 
Groups (CCGs) that are 100% EMIS Health 
Primary Care, while continuing to convert 
its signiﬁcant CCMH sales pipeline into 
contract wins. 
In Community Pharmacy, the Group 
maintained its leading position in the 
independent pharmacy market, securing 
and extending major contracts, which will 
add up to 1,800 supermarket pharmacies 
to EMIS Health’s Community Pharmacy 
estate over the next 18 months. 
In Secondary & Specialist Care, the 
business was impacted by delays to 
hospital contract awards resulting in 
a disappointing year, despite having 
beneﬁtted from good performances 
from Indigo 4 and Medical Imaging, both 
acquired during the second half of 2014. 
However, the new Secondary Care 
management team has put in place 
operational improvements which are 
expected to position it for stronger 
performance in 2016. 
On 24 June 2015, the Group’s clinical 
software businesses were rebranded 
as EMIS Health, to simplify the branding 
message and emphasise the Group’s 
strategic commitment to the provision of 
integrated solutions to help connect care.
The Group’s revenue visibility, order book 
and pipeline remain strong, with the 
Group achieving 20% growth in recurring 
revenue for the period.
Operational review
EMIS Group is a major provider of 
healthcare software, information 
technology and related services in the UK. 
It has maintained or grown its already 
strong market share in every major area 
of healthcare: Primary & Community, 
Community Pharmacy and Secondary 
& Specialist. This means the Group can 
facilitate the NHS’s connected care 
strategy across every major UK 
healthcare setting through organic 
growth, partnering or acquisition. 
This is a unique position. 
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
20
Strategic report   Moving all GP practices to EMIS Web is the ﬁrst of a 
series of steps to enable us to deliver primary care at 
scale across our area.  
 Tim Berry 
General Manager, IT projects, Warwickshire ICT Services
Primary & Community Care – Revenue up 
5%, Adjusted Operating Proﬁt up 12%
EMIS Health – Primary Care (EHPC)
The Group has delivered another 
excellent performance in primary care. 
Its customers remained extremely loyal: 
74% of the Group’s English GP practices 
have been EMIS Health users for over a 
decade. In addition, the Group’s UK 
primary care market share rose again 
to 55% (2014: 53%) and the number of 
100% EHPC CCGs rose from 32 to 44 
during the year. This means that 21% 
of CCGs are now 100% EHPC and so 
are able to connect primary care across 
the whole of their local health economy. 
Work has begun to identify newly 
forming CCG clusters across England 
with the aim of supporting them in 
developing their digital roadmaps, 
which are due for submission to the 
NHS in April 2016. 
The Group was awarded a place on Lot 3 
of the English GP Systems of Choice 
(GPSoC) framework on 27 March 2015. 
Lot 3 covers services that integrate with 
Lot 1 principal clinical systems to deliver 
end-to-end interoperability between GP 
practices and other care settings. Along 
with success for the Group in 2014 on the 
Lot 1 and Lot 2 frameworks, this award 
has secured the contractual arrangements 
for GP software funding in England for a 
period of up to the next six years. 
In Wales, the roll-out programme from 
the older EMIS LV product to EMIS Web 
for primary care was completed as 
planned during 2015. Discussions have 
begun about renewal of the primary care 
framework agreement, while the expiry 
dates for the present call off agreements 
already range from 2019 until 2020. 
In Northern Ireland, a number of sites 
moved from piloting EMIS Web to go-live 
in November 2015. The ﬁnal business case 
(for the communications infrastructure) 
was approved by the Northern Irish 
authority in late December 2015. The 
planned phasing for the implementation 
is for approximately half of the sites to 
be rolled out in 2016 with the remainder 
following in 2017. 
Planning has begun for the development 
changes needed for Scotland to move 
from the Group’s older PCS software to 
EMIS Web. The method of procurement 
(under a pre-existing framework or by 
a new formal tender) has not yet been 
decided but is expected to take place 
in 2016. 
The current UK Ministry of Defence 
contract was extended during the year 
in association with the lead contractor 
(CGI, formerly Logica). This extends the 
contract, for a variant of the Group’s PCS 
software, until April 2019. There is also a 
further one year extension if required by 
the Ministry of Defence. Discussions are 
ongoing about the replacement of PCS 
with EMIS Web. 
Patient Access is the way the Group 
provides patients with access to 
healthcare-related transactional services 
e.g. online appointment booking, access 
to the summary care record, ordering 
of repeat prescriptions and secure 
messaging. In the second half of the year, 
the Group began to receive revenues for 
these transactions under Lot 1 of GPSoC. 
By the end of 2015 the core functionality 
within Patient Access had been enabled 
by 99% of all the Group’s GP practices 
(2014: 39%). In 2016 transactional services 
will be extended by NHS requirement 
to include a detailed care record.
Throughout 2015 the Group further 
developed its proprietary personal health 
record within Patient Access, linking with 
Apple’s HealthKit. These records, for 
example, have been able to help prevent 
false positive readings (the “white coat 
effect”) in hypertensive patients, saving 
them from having to take medication and 
saving the NHS the cost of unnecessary 
GP visits and medication. Initial 
development work was also completed 
on “untethered registration” for Patient 
Access and this is now in testing. This 
will enable Patient Access to engage with 
clinical or other systems beyond EMIS 
Web e.g. EMIS Health CCMH, Community 
Pharmacy, Secondary & Specialist and third 
party suppliers in the UK and elsewhere. 
The Group will shortly release another 
proprietary upgrade giving patients the 
ability to share all or part of their record 
with a health professional or other carer 
using a secure link or a QR code. 
EMIS Health – Child Community & Mental 
Health (CCMH)
The Group’s CCMH team has delivered 
another great year of progress, working 
both on roll-outs and new sales to grow 
the Group’s market share to 12% (2014: 8%), 
signiﬁcantly exceeding the budgeted 10% 
target. During 2015, the team supported 
17 NHS Trusts (or equivalent enterprise 
healthcare organisations) to take their 
clinical services live using EMIS Web, 
on-schedule and on-budget, and 
now supports over 16,500 users 
(2014: 10,000 users).
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
21
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Operational review continued
Primary & Community Care continued
EMIS Health – Child Community & Mental 
Health (CCMH) continued
The Group’s unique offering in CCMH 
(connecting care pathways through EMIS 
Web for primary care in particular) enabled 
conversion of a signiﬁcant sales pipeline 
into contract wins with a total value of over 
£10m in the year including (*indicates wins 
not previously announced):
• Cheshire and Wirral Partnership 
NHS Foundation Trust (extension 
to existing contract)
• First Community Health & Care CIC 
(from Servelec)
• Bromley Healthcare CIC 
(from Servelec)
• St Andrews Healthcare (new contract)
• Marie Curie Cancer Care (new contract)
• NHS Tayside Health Board 
(new contract)
• Sentinel Healthcare Southwest 
Community Interest Company 
(from TPP)
• St Peter’s Hospice (from iCare)
• East Cheshire NHS Trust (extension 
to existing contract)
• East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust 
(from CSC/iSoft)* 
• Trafford CCG (from Civica)*
• Central Manchester Foundation Trust 
(from CSC/iSoft)*
• Pennine Acute Hospitals NHS Trust 
(from CSC/iSoft)*
• Southport & Ormskirk Hospitals NHS 
Trust (from CSC/iSoft)*
• Blackpool Teaching Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust (extension to 
existing contract)*
• Bristol Community Health CIC 
(extension to existing contract)*
Since the year end there have also been 
the following wins, reﬂecting a good start 
towards the targeted 15% market share 
by the end of 2016:
• South Tyneside NHS Trust (from TPP)*
• Stockport NHS Foundation Trust 
(extension to existing contract)*
Bolstering the Group’s unique position 
in connected care, in addition to the 
substantial increase in the number of 
100% EHPC CCGs, the Group has now 
secured over 10% of CCGs where EMIS 
Health is the sole supplier in both primary 
care and CCMH.
To build and maintain this connected 
care advantage, a number of structural 
changes were made to the teams within 
EHPC and CCMH. These better align the 
Group’s primary care and CCMH product 
sets with six provider markets (primary 
care, community, child health, mental 
health, out of hospital clinical services 
and patient facing services). Integrated 
teams now cover all these primary 
care and CCMH customers across sales, 
account management, training, support, 
operations and product development. 
This not only embeds EMIS Web within 
the existing primary care and CCMH 
user base but it also creates further 
opportunities e.g. in clinical services, 
urgent and emergency care, community 
pharmacy and in secondary care. 
Patient
The Group’s Patient business accounts for 
a relatively small proportion of revenues, 
but is becoming more strategically 
important. Helping patients proactively 
manage their own care is a key part of 
government and provider healthcare 
strategy in the UK and internationally.
Patient is a multi-award winning, UK 
trademark registered, online portal 
providing patients with clinically written 
and peer-reviewed health and well-being 
information. Patient rebranded from 
Patient.co.uk and moved to Patient.info 
(a top level domain) in June 2015. This 
was with the intention of facilitating 
acceleration in the growth of Patient 
especially in even greater national and 
international engagement.
As expected, the short term effect of 
the domain move was to reduce traffic 
temporarily. This is now returning towards 
pre-move levels. As at January 2016, 
international visits were up to nearly 70% 
of the total (from 55% prior to the domain 
move). Visitor growth also continued in 
January, reaching 13m unique visitors 
and 25m page views. Patient also has 
over 1.1m likes on Facebook and 28,000 
followers on Twitter.
Patient developed and started to 
progress further engagement strategies 
(including mobile optimisation, 
personalisation and internationalisation 
of content) as well as redeveloping its 
advertising campaign platform and is 
now exploring monetisation opportunities 
beyond advertising. With that in mind, 
Patient.Info Limited has been incorporated 
as a wholly owned subsidiary of EMIS 
Group plc and a recruitment process is 
now underway to secure a digital leader 
to drive further growth and open up new 
horizons for the business.
Egton – Non-clinical ICT solutions 
and services
Pinbellcom Group Limited (“Pinbellcom”) 
was acquired on 14 July 2015 for £3.0m 
net of cash acquired. Pinbellcom has been 
swiftly integrated and rebranded as Egton 
Digital. It has performed well and was 
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
22
Strategic report   One of the main beneﬁts of electronic prescribing and 
medicines administration is that the drug charts are available 
to several health care professionals at once.  
Amanda Parkinson 
Lead ePMA pharmacist
earnings enhancing during the year, 
selling and implementing not only the 
acquired Pinbellcom administration and 
compliance software for both the primary 
and the secondary care markets but also 
pre-existing software and services 
including GP practice websites. 
Community Pharmacy – Revenue up 9%, 
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt up 10%
EMIS Health – Community Pharmacy 
(EHCP)
EHCP has again delivered encouraging 
performance while laying the foundations 
for signiﬁcant future growth. Through 
EHCP the Group maintained its position 
as the provider of the single most widely 
used community pharmacy dispensary 
management system in the UK with 
a market share of 36% (2014: 36%).
EHCP is already the clear leader in the 
independent community pharmacy 
market. Additionally, and as previously 
announced, on 16 December 2015 a ﬁve 
year contract was signed with AAH 
Pharmaceuticals Limited (AAH). This 
renewed the pre-existing agreement 
covering the Group’s independent estate 
linked with AAH. It also extended the 
agreement to include the Lloyds Pharmacy 
estate. This will add up to 1,800 supermarket 
pharmacies to the EHCP estate over the 
next 18 months. Once the roll-out is 
complete, nearly half of all community 
pharmacy sites in the UK (close to 7,000 
sites) will be using a solution provided by 
EMIS Health. By 2017 this will make EHCP 
the largest software and services provider 
in the community pharmacy dispensary 
management market. 
EHCP has also developed a suite of 
integrated products enabling direct 
connections between pharmacists, GPs 
and patients. Pharmacy Access links 
directly with a GP’s EMIS Web system 
to provide pharmacists with better 
visibility of a patient’s medical history 
combined with the ability to request 
repeat prescriptions electronically. 
ProScript Connect, the Group’s next 
generation dispensary pharmacy 
management product, began successful 
pilots in Wales in the ﬁnal quarter of 2015. 
EMIS Web for Community Pharmacy 
successfully completed end-to-end 
testing between primary care and 
community pharmacy, and is now at the 
pilot stage. This will provide functionality 
and data to assist community pharmacies 
seeking to provide extended primary 
care services such as smoking cessation, 
inﬂuenza injections, and the monitoring of 
certain long term conditions. Planning of 
implementation, pricing and sales is now 
ongoing in readiness for a 2017 launch. 
Secondary & Specialist Care – Revenue 
up 42%, Adjusted Operating Proﬁt up 22%
EMIS Health – Secondary Care (EHSC)
While overall there was revenue growth, 
the slower than hoped for rate of contract 
awards in the period led to a lower than 
expected revenue and proﬁt contribution 
for the second consecutive year. 
A completely new senior management 
team for EHSC was appointed during the 
course of 2015 and has made signiﬁcant 
and ongoing progress in refocusing the 
business for the future. Fundamental 
changes now being implemented are 
expected to show results that will beneﬁt 
the top and bottom lines in the future. 
The strong sales pipeline continues to be 
reviewed and expanded by a restructured, 
closely managed, sales team, with a focus 
on smaller and medium size deals to 
mitigate any potential slippage in large 
size deals, so reinforcing expectations 
of a better performance in the coming 
year. Recent contract wins include:
• Hospital pharmacy system – 
North Midlands Trust
• Patient administration system – 
appointment as preferred bidder
• E-prescribing and medicines 
administration (ePMA) – St Andrew’s
• Endoscopy solution – Epsom 
& St Helier Hospital
• Document management solution – 
East Cheshire
The new management team has delivered 
a step change in software release quality, 
with changes in development and testing 
resulting in a material reduction in bugs. 
Operational improvements are beginning 
to show results with customers too, as 
evidenced by an increase in customers 
promoting the solutions (helped by faster 
and easier upgrade processes) and a 
reduction in customer complaints, all 
delivered with a leaner, more focussed 
pool of resource. The Group sees these 
operational improvements as clear 
leading indicators of expected improved 
ﬁnancial performance in 2016. 
Looking further out, the product roadmap 
has been subject to a detailed review and 
refresh, with renewed focus on rationalising 
the product set and on the convergence 
agenda with the EMIS Health Framework. 
This further integration is critical to 
delivering on customer requirements for 
connected care and data ﬂows across 
organisational boundaries within the NHS.
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
23
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Operational review continued
Secondary & Specialist Care – Revenue 
up 42%, Adjusted Operating Proﬁt up 22% 
continued
EMIS Health - Secondary Care (EHSC) 
continued
On 15 February 2016, EHSC announced 
a strategic decision to focus on its core 
markets and to leverage the EMIS Health 
development centre in India, whilst 
exiting its Australian, New Zealand and 
Kenyan operations (established by the 
Ascribe business prior to acquisition by 
EMIS Group). As a result, while all existing 
customer contracts will be honoured, 
there will be a phased reduction in the 
size of the teams (totalling approximately 
40 staff) in those locations leading to a 
ﬁnal closure of the Kenyan office at the 
end of June 2016 and of the Australian 
and New Zealand operations by no later 
than December 2017.
In parallel with the above announcements, 
EHSC in the UK undertook a further number 
of targeted redundancies in February 2016 
with the aim of strengthening the core 
secondary care business. The costs 
associated with these staff reductions in 
EHSC are not material and will principally 
be expensed in the ﬁrst half of 2016, with 
the second half of the year beneﬁtting 
from a lower cost base as a result.
In conclusion, the above actions are 
expected to deliver a signiﬁcantly 
improved performance in 2016 and 
enhanced prospects going forward.
EMIS Health – Specialist & Care (EHS&C)
EHS&C delivered a strong set of results 
for the year, consolidating its leading 
market position and preparing for further 
growth opportunities in 2016. 
EMIS Health Specialist remains the 
leading provider of diabetic eye screening 
software and other ophthalmology-related 
solutions, with an English market share 
(measured by programmes) of 79% 
(2014: 82%), with the slight reduction 
reﬂecting programme border changes 
rather than any reduction in activity.
The announcement by Public Health 
England on 27 January 2016 of its 
intention to procure a single English 
diabetic eye screening programme 
software solution provides a new growth 
opportunity. NHS England will support 
Public Health England in the procurement 
and implementation of the national 
software, to achieve standardised local 
programme operation through common 
IT system design and core functionality 
by October 2017.
Medical Imaging, to be rebranded EMIS 
Care in April 2016, remains the clear 
market leader in outsourced diabetic eye 
screening and ophthalmology imaging 
services. Acquired by the Group in 
December 2014, it continues to perform 
well and was earnings enhancing in 
the year. 
Future screening provision business was 
secured for at least ﬁve years through 
winning the following diabetic eye 
screening programme contracts across 
England with an aggregate total contract 
value of over £28m:
• South West London 
• Newcastle & Gateshead
• Arden, Herefordshire & Worcestershire
A number of further material contracts are 
already being tendered in 2016, providing 
the potential to build further on the proven 
track record of delivery of the business. 
Integrated Care, Products & Services
The Group has made considerable 
progress during the year in integrating 
care, connecting its own and third party 
products and centralising Group services. 
This is vital to facilitate faster, better, 
more cost-effective care for the NHS and 
revenue growth and improved margin for 
the Group. 
Integrating Care
The ﬁrst phase of the Group’s whole 
healthcare economy contract, to deliver 
a fully integrated electronic patient record 
for Gibraltar, went live in June 2015. This 
links and integrates the Group’s products 
in accident & emergency, outpatient 
clinics, community services, primary care 
and community pharmacy. The second 
phase, including further integration into 
the hospital environment and improved 
order communications, is now underway 
and progressing well.
As another example of the Group’s ability 
to connect healthcare, Wolverhampton 
CCG is ﬁnancially supporting activation of 
Pharmacy Access at all 27 pharmacies in 
its area which use ProScript and interact 
with EMIS Web GP surgeries. This will 
enable those pharmacies to request 
repeat prescriptions electronically from 
GPs using the EMIS Web clinical system.
Pharmacists will also be able to view key 
clinical data in the GP record, including 
adverse reactions and allergies, historically 
prescribed acute and repeat medications, 
and test results such as the International 
Normalised Ratio (INR) thyroid function, 
blood pressure and blood sugars. This link 
will also facilitate advanced and enhanced 
services such as Medicines Use Reviews 
and the New Medicine Service.
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
24
Strategic report Sheila Gregory, project implementation 
officer at Wolverhampton CCG, said: 
“We are excited to be offering pharmacists 
Pharmacy Access, which shows what 
is possible with joined up healthcare. 
We look forward to measuring the clinical 
and administrative beneﬁts over the 
next few months as the project gets up 
and running.”
Connecting Healthcare Products
During the year, the Group extended the 
available connectivity between its own 
and third party provider solutions and 
continued to develop the EMIS Health 
Framework. This is a modular environment 
that will gradually be used to rebuild all 
the Group’s products. For example, 
EHSC’s upgraded ePharmacy product 
has been developed in the EMIS 
Health Framework.
Third party initiatives included agreeing 
direct interoperability with GP and CCMH 
market competitor TPP in March 2015, 
signature of the Tech UK Interoperability 
Charter in September 2015 and, on 
2 February 2016, becoming the ﬁrst UK 
clinical systems provider to implement 
new open standards for interoperability 
in the NHS (OpenAPI). This enables 
clinicians using EMIS Health systems to 
securely share data with any other third 
party system across health and social 
care. Work has already begun in this 
respect with both System C/LiquidLogic 
and Servelec/CoreLogic.
Through its OpenAPI strategy the Group 
is committed to working with any supplier 
willing to follow national interoperability 
standards and best practice in information 
governance and security. That strategy 
will continue to make EMIS Health systems 
the most interoperable of their kind in 
healthcare. The Medical Interoperability 
Gateway (MIG), from Healthcare Gateway 
Limited, the Group’s joint venture with In 
Practice Systems, is one element of the 
existing interoperability portfolio which 
alone is used by over 70 health economies 
and demonstrates our longstanding 
commitment to working collaboratively 
with both traditional partners and 
competitors alike.
Centralising Group Services
From 2016 onwards all EMIS Health software 
development will be centralised within 
EMIS Group. This is expected to lead to 
economies of scale without the need for 
wholesale relocation or off-shoring of 
staff. For example, Group pharmacy 
databases have already been reduced 
from twelve sources to ﬁve. There will 
also be a common prioritisation process 
via a Group portfolio board. This will 
increase the visibility of activity and its 
allocation to speciﬁc revenue opportunities. 
A new EMIS India development office was 
opened in Chennai on 9 February 2016 with 
an initial cohort of nearly 50 development 
and testing staff.
The management team is also vigorously 
pursuing further opportunities for driving 
internal efficiencies, from Property and 
Legal services through to Marketing and 
Human Resources. Particularly noteworthy 
is the Group’s investment in a common 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) platform, 
which is now being rolled out progressively 
across the Group to replace a number of 
legacy systems.
Summary and Outlook
EMIS Group has again reported good 
underlying proﬁt growth in line with the 
Board’s expectations, derived from a mix 
of organic and acquisitive growth. We are 
focussed on ensuring that the operational 
improvements in our Secondary Care 
business will deliver improved ﬁnancial 
performance as the year progresses. 
Our outlook is encouraging, with strong 
revenue visibility, growing market shares, 
and good momentum in our order books 
and pipelines. 
The NHS in England remains supportive of 
EMIS Group’s strategy of delivering digital 
technology allied to cultural change that 
will help create faster and better care. 
The 2016 Mandate to NHS England states: 
 “This Government will increase spending 
in real terms every year in this Parliament. 
The NHS will receive £10 billion more per 
year in real terms by 2020-2021 than in 
2014-15. This investment backs in full the 
Five Year Forward View and will mean 
patients receive a truly seven-day health 
service, with the services people need 
being offered in hospitals at the weekend 
and people able to access a GP at 
evenings and weekends…NHS England 
should support the NHS to make better 
use of digital services and technology to 
transform patients’ access to and use of 
health and care, including online access 
to their personal health records.”
Chris Spencer
Chief Executive Officer
15 March 2016
 The electronic healthcare system will provide 
healthcare staff with instant access to accurate patient 
information and effective tools to communicate, or refer 
patients, across multiple healthcare settings, and enhance 
support for care in the community. 
Dr Valerie Flores
GP, Gibraltar 
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
25
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Strong balance of growth in revenue and 
proﬁt, both organically and from acquisitions.
In the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group delivered a 
strong balance of growth in revenue and proﬁt, both organically 
and from acquisitions. 
Adjusted operating proﬁt for the year, as set out in the table on 
page 27, was £36.6m (2014: £32.6m) with statutory operating proﬁt, 
reduced by non-cash exceptional impairment charges, at £11.4m 
(2014: £29.1m). A reconciliation between the operating proﬁt 
measures is given in the Group Statement of comprehensive income.
Revenue
Group revenue increased by 13% to £155.9m (2014: £137.6m), 
including revenue from acquisitions completed during the year 
of £0.7m, and revenue from the 2014 acquisitions in Secondary 
& Specialist Care of £13.0m (2014: £1.6m).
The 5% organic growth in the year included increases from all 
segments. The Primary & Community Care business delivered 
4% organic growth, driven by the completion of the EMIS Web 
roll-out in England and Wales, and good progress in market 
share in CCMH.
Performance in the Community Pharmacy business was again 
robust, with continued gains in the estate and further cross-selling 
of additional services delivered alongside signiﬁcant investment 
in software development.
Total revenue
£155.9m +13%
73.2
86.3
105.5
137.6
155.9
15 14 13 12 11
Financial review
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
£36.6m +12%
20.8
22.8
26.1
32.6
36.6
15 14 13 12 11
Adjusted EPS
1
45.3p +15%
27.7
30.8
34.0
39.5
45.3
15 14 13 12 11
1  Excludes impairment charges, release of contingent acquisition consideration, 
capitalisation and amortisation of development costs and amortisation of acquired 
intangibles. Earnings per share calculations also adjust for the related tax and 
non-controlling interest impact.
Strategic report
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
26 The Secondary & Specialist Care segment 
includes full year contributions from the 
Medical Imaging business, acquired in late 
2014, and Indigo 4, acquired in July 2014. 
While revenues grew in Secondary Care, 
the performance overall was disappointing, 
with a number of expected contracts not 
concluding in the year. 2016 has started 
more positively with several key contract 
wins already secured, while the cost base 
for the business is being addressed, as 
described in the operational review, so 
positioning it for stronger growth ahead.
Revenue mix
Group recurring revenue, principally 
licences, maintenance & software support, 
hosting and other support services, was 
£123.0m (2014: £102.7m), 79% of total 
revenue. The high level of recurring 
revenue and strong order book at the 
start of 2016 provide a strong platform 
for the business to continue to invest with 
conﬁdence in developing future products 
and services, as well as visibility of future 
ﬁnancial expectations. 
The drivers of revenue change within 
the Group included the following:
• licences, driven signiﬁcantly higher 
to £50.3m (2014: £43.8m), principally 
as a result of growth in Primary 
& Community Care, particularly in 
CCMH, the partner programme and 
Defence contracts;
• maintenance & software support, which 
increased to £37.9m (2014: £33.4m) due 
to some growth in Secondary Care and 
to a full period of higher allocation to 
this revenue stream under the revised 
GPSoC contract;
• other support services, where new 
revenues from the Medical Imaging 
acquisition resulted in total revenues 
of £30.6m (2014: £21.6m);
• training, consultancy and implementation, 
which reduced to £16.1m (2014: £16.9m), 
with the expected lower levels of 
EMIS Web roll-out related revenue 
in Primary Care being partly offset by 
higher revenues in Secondary Care;
• hosting, which was lower at £13.1m 
(2014: £14.0m), as a result of a 
reduction in funded hosted asset 
revenues and due to the lower 
allocation to this revenue stream 
under the revised GPSoC contract; and
• hardware revenues, which were 
unchanged at £7.9m (2014: £7.9m).
Revenue
 Primary & community care 60%
 Secondary & specialist care 27%
 Community pharmacy 13%
Selected ﬁnancial extracts (rounded)
2015 2014
Primary & Secondary Primary & Secondary
Community Community & Specialist Community Community & Specialist
Care Pharmacy Care Total Care Pharmacy Care Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 93.9 20.0 42.0 155.9 89.7 18.4 29.5 137.6
Adjusted segmental operating proﬁt 29.6 4.3 4.2 38.1 26.4 3.9 3.4 33.7
Group expenses (1.5) (1.1)
Adjusted operating profit1 36.6 32.6
Adjusted operating margin 31.5% 21.2% 10.0% 23.4% 29.5% 21.0% 11.6% 23.7%
Development costs capitalised 3.1 1.0 2.1 6.2 4.0 0.8 1.8 6.6
Amortisation of development costs (5.4) — (0.9) (6.3) (4.3) — (0.4) (4.7)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.9) (0.6) (5.0) (6.5) (1.1) (0.7) (4.4) (6.2)
1  Excludes impairment charges, release of contingent acquisition consideration, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
27
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Financial review continued
Proﬁtability
Adjusted operating proﬁt increased by 
12% to £36.6m (2014: £32.6m), including 
£0.3m from acquisitions completed in the 
year and £1.7m from the 2014 acquisitions in 
Secondary & Specialist Care (2014: £0.4m). 
The 7% organic proﬁt growth in the year 
was delivered by double digit growth in the 
Primary & Community Care and Community 
Pharmacy businesses, partly offset by the 
lower than expected results in Secondary Care. 
The organic operating margin 
nonetheless increased to 24.4% 
(2014: 23.7%) with a strong focus on 
cost control in staff costs delivering this 
improvement in the context of a lower 
pace of revenue growth than in recent 
years. The overall Group adjusted 
operating margin reduced slightly from 
23.7% to 23.4% with the mix impact of 
the lower margin acquired businesses 
in Secondary & Specialist Care.
Group staff costs increased with staff 
numbers at the year-end increasing to 
1,897 (2014: 1,841), including 13 from 
businesses acquired in the year. The 
average headcount increased to 1,863 
(2014: 1,611). These numbers include eight 
in the Indian development team who 
joined at the end of the year. This team 
was managed on a subcontracted basis 
during 2015, but in 2016 has joined the 
Group with headcount expected to double 
from the current 50 over the coming year.
The Group has recognised two exceptional 
non-cash impairment charges in 2015 
totalling £18.5m. The ﬁrst (totalling £16.2m) 
relates to the carrying value of goodwill 
arising on the Ascribe (Secondary Care) 
acquisition, and reﬂects the fact that the 
business has not yet delivered the ﬁnancial 
returns expected when the business joined 
the Group in 2013. The second charge 
(of £2.3m) is in respect of the Group’s 
minority investment in Pharmacy2U, 
held since 2005. This business has had 
a troubled year, including a number of 
fundraising rounds in which the Group has 
chosen not to participate. The Group’s 
interest has reduced accordingly and 
is now below 15%. In the circumstances, 
the Directors believe that it is appropriate 
to impair fully the Group’s investment 
in the business.
After accounting for the exceptional 
impairment charges, the capitalisation and 
amortisation of development costs, the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
for a £0.9m exceptional credit on acquisition 
consideration in the prior year, statutory 
operating proﬁt was £11.4m (2014: £29.1m).
Taxation
The tax charge for the year of £5.6m 
(2014: £5.7m) is after taking into account 
a reduction in the provision for deferred 
tax of £0.4m, arising from the lowering 
of the future tax rate to 19% in 2017 and 
18% in 2020. Excluding the impact of this 
deferred tax credit the effective tax rate 
for the year is 20.2% (2014: 21.5%) on 
proﬁt before tax and the (non-deductible/
taxable) impairment charges and prior 
year acquisition consideration release. 
Earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS increased 
by 15% to 45.3p and 45.1p respectively 
(2014: 39.5p and 39.4p). The statutory 
basic and diluted EPS were 7.2p for both 
measures (2014: 35.3p and 35.2p).
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016, 
the Board proposes an increase in the 
ﬁnal dividend to 10.6p (2014: 9.2p) per 
ordinary share, payable on 29 April 2016 
to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 1 April 2016. This 
would make a total dividend of 21.2p 
(2014: 18.4p) per ordinary share for 2015. 
This is 15% higher than in the prior year, 
reﬂecting the Board’s commitment to 
increasing dividends in line with growth 
in adjusted EPS and its conﬁdence 
in the Group’s prospects.
Total dividend for the year
21.2p +15%
12.4
14.2
16.0
18.4
21.2
15 14 13 12 11
Recurring revenue
£123.0m +20%
61.1
69.4
81.4
102.7
123.0
15 14 13 12 11
Cash generated from operations
1
£36.5m -5%
27.1 27.4
32.6
38.3
36.5
15 14 13 12 11
1  Stated after deduction of capitalised 
development costs.
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
28
Strategic report Revenue analysis
 Licences 33%
 Maintenance & support 24%
 Hosting 8%
 Hardware 5%
  Training/consultancy/
implementation 10%
 Other support services 20%
Net cash generated from operations was 
£36.5m (2014: £38.3m), with the slight 
reduction reﬂecting working capital outﬂows 
due to the timing of payments and the 
unwinding of deferred income balances 
in respect of NHS funded hosting assets. 
The Group typically has a seasonal cash 
ﬂow proﬁle, with stronger inﬂows in the 
ﬁrst half reﬂecting the timing of annual 
licence renewals. 
The Group completed the acquisition 
of Pinbellcom in the year for net cash 
consideration of £3.0m and also paid 
£2.25m of contingent consideration in 
respect of the 2013 Ascribe acquisition. 
In respect of the 2014 Medical Imaging 
acquisition, further amounts of up to 
£3.0m may become payable in 2016 
and are fully provided for.
Net capital expenditure excluding capitalised 
development costs reduced to £7.2m 
(2014: £8.3m), including £2.9m on computer 
equipment (£0.5m of which related to 
hosting contract assets) and £3.1m for 
various property improvements. The 
most signiﬁcant of these investments was 
£1.6m for the ﬁt out of new Secondary 
Care premises, bringing together two 
former offices in Bolton to encourage 
greater efficiency and cohesion in 
the business.
The Group’s Employee Beneﬁt Trust 
received £0.6m (2014: £0.5m) for shares 
transferred in connection with the Group’s 
share schemes but didn’t acquire any 
additional shares during the year (2014: 
£2.0m). After tax, dividends and other 
payments, including a £2.1m dividend 
paid to the minority shareholder in the 
Group’s Community Pharmacy business, 
the total net cash inﬂow of £2.7m resulted 
in a year-end net debt position of £9.1m 
(2014: £11.8m), comprised of cash of £4.7m 
and bank overdraft and debt of £13.8m. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had 
available bank facilities of £22.0m 
committed until June 2017.
Peter Southby
Chief Financial Officer
15 March 2016
 Recurring 79%
 Non-recurring 21%
 Cash ﬂow and net debt
The principal movements in net debt were as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Cash from operations:
Cash generated from operations 42.7 44.8
Less: internal development costs capitalised (6.2) (6.5)
Net cash generated from operations 36.5 38.3
Business combinations (5.2) (10.3)
Net capital expenditure (7.2) (8.3)
Transactions in own shares 0.6 (1.5)
Tax (6.9) (5.2)
Dividends (12.4) (10.8)
Other (2.7) (0.5)
(33.8) (36.6)
Change in net debt in the year 2.7 1.7
Net debt at end of year (9.1) (11.8)
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
29
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Sustainability
EMIS Group continues to be committed to high ethical 
standards and contributes to economic development 
while improving the quality of life for our people and that 
of the communities in which we work and live.
Employees Environmental Management
Health and Safety Community
Ethical Business Practices
Our Corporate Social Responsibility policy covers the key areas of:
Employees
People strategy
2015 saw the planning, preparation 
and introduction of a people strategy. 
This strategy aims to foster passion 
and engagement by supporting and 
developing our people to achieve, 
learn and grow at EMIS Group. It outlines 
our commitments to employees over the 
next three years as: offering a fair and 
competitive deal; bringing in the best 
talent; creating a learning organisation; 
doing the basics brilliantly; providing 
compelling communications; caring 
for our people; and contributing to 
our communities.
Your Say
A survey was carried out across the whole 
Group for all employees to have their say 
about what it feels like to work for EMIS 
Group – Your Say. The survey results then 
helped to shape the people strategy, 
identifying key areas for review such 
as pay and beneﬁts, recruitment, and 
internal communication. Across the 
Group, action plans have been created 
for each business and department, focus 
groups and champion networks have 
worked together to discuss how they 
can drive employee engagement and 
work together to promote a positive 
and empowered working environment. 
Some of the initiatives that have 
been introduced following the survey 
include a Group-wide company intranet, 
a bi-monthly employee magazine, 
a comprehensive review of pay and 
beneﬁts and advertisement of all job 
vacancies across the whole Group. 
Training
Following our employees’ feedback 
in the Your Say survey, inductions have 
been reviewed and improved. We aim 
to equip new employees with knowledge 
about the industry in which we operate 
and how integrated care could transform 
the NHS. This contextual knowledge training 
has been further shared across the business 
to help our people understand more about 
external market changes and how they 
could impact us – over 500 people have 
taken part in this training to date. 
A number of employees have successfully 
taken part in NVQ qualiﬁcations across 
the Group and this will continue throughout 
2016. Our apprenticeship scheme continued 
successfully with several graduates from the 
scheme being employed on a permanent 
basis. We continue to support local 
communities by offering work experience 
placements across a variety of departments.
Bespoke departmental training 
has taken place that addresses the 
speciﬁc needs of our employees and 
teams, in addition to more generic 
training with external providers around 
customer service. Basic line manager 
training has been rolled out to all 
managers in our secondary 
care business. 
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
30
Strategic report “ Attracting and retaining highly skilled people who are passionate 
about our patients and our customers; people who feel fulﬁlled, 
valued and supported in their work; creating a high performing 
learning environment which brings out the best in people.”
Nicola Cliffe
Group Human Resources Director
A programme of mandatory training 
for all our new colleagues at EMIS Care 
(formerly Medical Imaging) has taken 
place, as well as 15 different bespoke 
external training courses that addressed 
speciﬁc development needs. 
Pension schemes
In total, 88% of all employees are now 
members of a company pension scheme. 
In all areas, except EMIS Health specialist 
care, new employees are auto-enrolled 
into their relevant scheme and the 
contribution rates we offer are higher 
than the minimum requirements. EMIS 
Health specialist care is set to start 
auto-enrolment in August 2016, but already 
have 88% of their team in their scheme. 
Employees have the opportunity to 
increase their contributions from date 
of entry and the Group will automatically 
increase the Company’s minimum 
contribution rates each year to ensure 
all legislative requirements are met.
New employees who joined us as a result 
of the acquisition of PinBellCom have 
also been successfully integrated into 
the Group’s main pension scheme.
Employee beneﬁts
We offer a range of beneﬁts to employees 
which includes discounted gym membership, 
a cycle to work scheme, discounted 
shopping vouchers, the buying and selling 
of holidays, private healthcare and the 
ability to buy IT equipment at reduced 
rates. We are committed to offering 
employees ﬂexible working hours in a 
comfortable working environment, and 
have relocated 180 employees based in our 
EMIS Health Secondary Care offices to a 
newly furbished office in 2015 and invested 
further in our properties in Leeds, Sheffield 
and Watford. Employees were involved 
in the design of the working space 
and rest facilities.
Share incentive scheme
The Share Incentive Plan (SIP) continues 
to be offered to all employees with over 
twelve months’ service. In total 1,053 
employees from across the Group are 
shareholders in the SIP, an increase 
of 27% on last year. 
Directors
 Senior Management
1
Employees
 Male 100%
 Female 0%
 Male 83%
 Female 17%
 Male 63%
 Female 37%
1 Senior population as deﬁned by EMIS Group.
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
31
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Community
We continue to support both local 
communities around our offices and a 
range of smaller and national charities. 
• £1,500 in Group funding donations went 
towards individual charitable activities 
– they ranged from marathons and bike 
races to sponsored head shaves (with 
the donated hair going towards 
making wigs for cancer patients). 
• National charity days took place across 
the Group, supporting big initiatives 
such as Comic Relief, Jeans for Genes, 
MacMillan Cancer Support and Text 
Santa. Nearly £4,000 was raised 
across the Group for Children in Need, 
with community pharmacy raising 
funds by auctioning off their senior 
management team, secondary care 
holding a fancy dress day and pool 
competition, Egton and primary care, 
community & commissioning holding 
bake sales and dress down events. 
• Tough Mudders from Egton worked as 
a team to complete the gruelling 20km 
obstacle course, raising nearly £1,300 
for Cancer Research.
• Team EMIS Moon Units took part in 
the Scotland Moon Walk, completing 
their overnight challenge in 7 hours 
43 minutes and raising over £1,000 
for WalktheWalk.
• Three employees from our community 
pharmacy division scaled the London 
‘3 Peaks Challenge’, raising over 
£1,000 for Cancer Research.
• The Great Christmas Beard Off in 
secondary care raised money for the 
local Bolton NHS Charitable Fund – 
Children’s and Mental Health 
Service (CAMHS). 
• Employees from across the Group took 
part in Give and Gain Day, volunteering 
at a local primary school, a care home 
and in a woodland management project.
Sustainability continued
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
32
Strategic report Environmental Management
Accreditations
We continue to recognise the importance 
of protecting the environment and mitigating 
the impact of our activities.
EMIS Group has established an 
Environmental Management System that 
provides a framework for managing and 
reducing the Group’s environmental 
impacts and establishes programmes to 
help achieve our environmental objectives 
as part of our continual improvement 
process. We are proud to have achieved 
certiﬁcation of this management system 
to ISO14001:2004 in February 2015. 
A three year plan was put in place 
with regular six monthly surveillance visits 
planned across the EMIS Group to ensure 
compliance and continual improvement is 
made against the set objectives and targets.
Three key areas to target have 
been identiﬁed. These are:
• utility usage;
• waste; and
• travel.
Baseline data across the Group 
was recorded in 2015 and targets have 
been set to reduce usage during 2016.
EMIS Group is now compliant with the 
Article 8 (4-6) of the EU Energy Efficiency 
Directive (2012/2/EU).
Waste
The Group disposed of 48 tonnes of IT 
waste which was all recycled in line with our 
ISO 14001 accreditation and environmental 
management system. Targets have been 
set for the reduction of waste in 2016.
CO
2
 Emissions
2015 saw the introduction of a new vehicle 
ﬂeet management system. The vehicles 
available to staff have a CO
2
 emissions 
average of 107g/km and as a result this has 
lowered our ﬂeet average from 117g/km 
in 2014 to 111g/km in 2015.
We continue to offer the cycle to work 
scheme and video conferencing facilities 
have now been installed across the Group. 
The Group has set targets to further 
reduce business travel in 2016.
Health and Safety
Reporting
The EMIS Group plc Board receives reports 
twice a year on Environmental and Health 
and Safety compliance across the Group. 
The function is now a centralised Group 
Services department with individuals 
responsible for day to day activities in 
each business. During the year an audit 
of all policies and procedures was 
undertaken and a managed roll out of 
Group policies will begin in 2016 through 
a new online system which records 
compliance by individuals to ensure a 
consistent Environmental and Health 
and Safety approach across the Group.
Training
All new starters receive Health and Safety 
Induction training and existing staff have 
all received refresher training. A total of 
2,219 training modules were completed 
during the year. Further modules will 
be released throughout 2016 through 
the new on-line system which has 
been introduced.
Accidents/Incidents
Information from any reported accidents 
is collated from across the Group. There 
was a reduction in accidents/incidents 
in 2015 by 18%.
There were four RIDDOR accidents 
reported across the Group in 2015 
compared to two in 2014. A review of 
the risk assessment process and a full 
review of the type of incidents that 
occurred has been carried out.
We continue to identify drivers to undertake 
advanced classroom based and in car driver 
training and to work with our insurers to 
improve the standard of driving and reduce 
the number of minor accidents.
Ethical Business Practices
Our policies detail the standards expected 
throughout the Group including free and 
fair competition, the prohibition of bribery, 
honest and fair dealing with suppliers and 
ensuring that the welfare of workers and 
employment conditions within the supply 
chain meet recognised standards.
We have a statement of ethics and a 
whistleblowing policy in place which 
is reviewed annually by the audit 
committee. All employees are made 
aware of the Bribery Act and refresher 
training is undertaken regularly.
Total accidents
66 66
54
2015 2014 2013
Driver accidents
53
49
48
2015 2014 2013
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
33
Governance Strategic report Financial statements EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
34
Governance
Board of Directors
Comprehensive experience and well balanced.
 Name M ik e O’ L e ar y  R N A Chris Spencer Peter Southby
Current position Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Appointed March 2011 July 2013 October 2012
Board committees Audit; Nomination (Chairman); 
Remuneration
None None
External appointments 
and memberships
Non-executive director, 
Epwin Group plc
None
Law Society of England & Wales
Society for Computers & Law
Chartered Management 
Institute (Fellow)
Chartered Institute of Patent 
Agents (Associate)
None
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England & Wales (Fellow)
Experience Mike has over 20 years’ experience 
at main board level in a public 
company environment, both FTSE 
100 and FTSE 250. He has broad 
experience of running global 
operations, and a strong background 
in the IT industry as well as intimate 
association with the UK and 
international healthcare sectors. Mike 
has managed a healthcare division in 
the US which supplied software and 
services to over 70,000 primary care 
physicians. He also has experience of 
selling PAS and pathology 
departmental systems.
Chris has 35 years of experience of 
general management and leadership, 
software (speciﬁcation, design, 
development, project management, 
implementation, marketing and sales) 
within the healthcare, legal and 
educational sectors both as a founder 
of his own companies and a senior 
manager in established companies.
His roles at EMIS Group since 
joining in 1999 include Commercial 
Development Director, Group Legal 
Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer 
and interim CEO.
Peter has 20 years of experience in 
ﬁnance, mainly in a public company 
environment, including 10 years at 
board level. He has led numerous 
corporate transactions including 
fundraising and acquisitions. His 
experience has given him an in-depth 
knowledge of strategy across multiple 
industry sectors with a particular 
focus on support services. Peter 
also has lead responsibility for all 
Group support functions.
Previous relevant 
appointments
Chairman of Digital Healthcare Ltd
Chief executive of Marlborough 
Stirling plc 
Chief executive of Huon Corporation
Executive director of Misys plc
Non-executive director 
of Headlam Group plc
Non-executive director 
of Ensco Limited
General manager and head of IT 
at Markgraaf Patents Ltd
Founder shareholder and director 
of software house Solicitec Ltd 
Managing partner at Emsley 
Collins (solicitors)
Financial director at ENER-G plc
Finance director at Augean plc
Senior ﬁnancial positions 
at White Young Green plc 
and Leeds United plc
Senior audit manager 
at Arthur Andersen EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
35
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Committee membership
 A
 
Audit committee
 R
 
Remuneration committee
 N
 
Nomination committee
 
Chairman of committee
Robin Taylor  R N A Andy McKeon  R N A Kevin Boyd  R N A
Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
March 2010 February 2013 May 2014
Audit (Chairman); Nomination; 
Remuneration
Audit; Nomination; Remuneration 
(Chairman)
Audit; Nomination; Remuneration
Non-executive director of Fusionex 
International plc
Non-executive director of FDM 
Group plc
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland
Senior policy fellow at the 
Nuffield Trust
Vice-chair at the National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence (NICE)
Group ﬁnance director of 
Oxford Instruments plc*
London Stock Exchange Primary 
Markets Group
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales (Fellow)
Institution of Engineering 
and Technology (Fellow)
Robin brings many years’ experience 
as a plc director. From his previous 
appointments, he gained experience 
on ﬁnancial reporting, ﬁnancing, 
transactions and risk management. 
The Board believes Robin’s skills, 
experience and knowledge provide 
strong support to his role as a 
well-qualiﬁed Senior Non-executive 
Director and chairman of the 
audit committee.
Andy’s extensive knowledge of 
the NHS and experience in shaping 
health policy add invaluable 
expertise to the Board discussions. 
He is an advocate for change which 
beneﬁts patients. The Board believes 
Andy brings an independent view 
and is well suited to the Chairmanship 
of the remuneration committee.
As a current FTSE 250 group 
ﬁnance director, Kevin brings 
real time ﬁnancial expertise and 
software systems knowledge to 
the Board. Together with Kevin’s 
experience of running complex 
businesses and corporate transactions, 
the Board considers his ﬁnancial and 
investor relations experience to be 
of particular value to the Board.
Chief ﬁnancial officer of Intec 
Telecom Systems plc
Chief ﬁnancial officer of ITNET plc
Chief ﬁnancial officer of JBA 
Holdings plc
Non-executive director 
of Phoenix IT Group plc
Variety of ﬁnancial and general 
management roles in Europe 
and North America
Interim chief executive, Nuffield Trust
Departmental board member 
at the Department of Health 
(Director General responsible 
for Policy & Planning)
Head of primary care, Department 
of Health
Deputy chief executive, Barts 
and the London NHS Trust
Managing director, Health, 
Audit Commission
Group ﬁnance director at Radstone 
Technology plc
Finance director at Siroyan Ltd
Senior ﬁnancial positions at TI Group 
(now Smiths Group plc)
*  Kevin Boyd will be leaving 
Oxford Instruments plc and will take 
up a new role as group ﬁnance director 
at Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc on 
10 May 2016. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
36
Governance
Chairman’s introduction to 
corporate governance
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to 
present the EMIS Group plc corporate 
governance report for the year ended 
31 December 2015. The Company is 
committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and the Board acknowledges 
the importance of the principles set out in 
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
published by the Financial Reporting 
Council (“the Code”). 
The report below outlines how the Company 
has applied the principles of the Code. 
The Board understands the importance of 
ensuring that there is a strong governance 
framework in place which underpins the 
Company’s ability to achieve its strategic 
goals. Although compliance with the Code 
is not mandatory for companies admitted 
to the Alternative Investments Market 
(AIM), the Company continues to establish 
a framework of policies and procedures 
designed to comply with the Code as far 
as is reasonably practicable and appropriate 
for a company of its size and complexity. 
Corporate governance
Leadership and effectiveness
All Directors are subject to election 
or re-election by shareholders at each 
annual general meeting. The nomination 
committee considers that individuals subject 
to election or re-election are, or continue 
to be, effective and demonstrate appropriate 
commitment to their roles. 
Each year following an internal 
assessment of the performance of 
the Board and its individual Directors, 
undertaken by the Chairman, the Board 
considers the current balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge 
and assesses whether it is appropriate for the 
business. It was evident from the ﬁndings 
of the review this year that the Board 
considers that it operates in an open and 
constructive manner and works effectively. 
The Board has extensive operational 
experience and Chris Spencer, Mike O’Leary 
and Andy McKeon in particular have 
many years of detailed knowledge of the 
healthcare sector. 
All members of the Board agreed that 
appropriate processes were in place 
for setting the strategic direction of 
the Group, monitoring its performance 
against plan and ensuring that risks and 
governance were properly addressed. 
The committees of the Board were 
considered to be effective and all 
members were deemed to have made 
valuable contributions. Further details 
of the evaluation are provided in the 
corporate governance report below.
When considering Board membership, 
factors including the balance of skills, 
experience, independence, knowledge 
of the Group and diversity, including 
gender, are taken into account. 
Relations with shareholders
Communication between the Company 
and its shareholders is an essential element 
of a sound governance framework.
The CEO has personal objectives in 
place around the degree and nature of 
engagement with investors. He presented 
at several investor conferences during the 
course of the year.
An extensive programme of meetings with 
analysts and institutional shareholders 
followed the interim and preliminary 
ﬁnancial results announcements with 
almost 100 meetings with 65 separate 
investors held in 2015. For the ﬁrst time 
during the year, the investor programme 
was extended to include US institutions. 
There is regular dialogue with individual 
institutional shareholders throughout 
the year to discuss strategy, performance 
and governance and to obtain feedback. 
These meetings are usually attended by the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer. A programme of engagement with 
retail investors was also initiated.
Feedback from these meetings, and regular 
market updates prepared by the Company’s 
broker, are presented to the Board to ensure 
the Directors have a good understanding of 
shareholders’ views. The Chairman and the 
Senior Non-executive Director are also 
available separately to shareholders to 
discuss strategy and governance issues and 
any views arising from this route are also 
communicated to the Board as a whole.
During the year an improved EMIS Group 
website was launched and, in accordance 
with AIM Rule 26, there is a dedicated 
investors’ section, which can be found 
at www.emisgroupplc.com/investors. 
All public announcements are posted 
on the website and there is a wide range 
of information on the Group’s activities. 
The AGM will be held at Rawdon House, 
Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds, LS19 7BY 
on 26 April 2016 at 10am and I would like 
to take this opportunity to encourage 
shareholders to attend. As ever, it will 
provide investors with an opportunity 
to meet the Board and ask any questions 
that they may have in respect of the 
Group’s reported activities.
The pages that follow explain how we 
applied speciﬁc aspects of the Group’s 
compliance arrangements and how the 
main principles of the Code were applied.
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
15 March 2016 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
37
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
 Audit 
committee
The committee is 
responsible for overseeing 
the external ﬁnancial 
reporting obligations and 
associated announcements, 
considering risk 
management, internal 
controls procedures and the 
work of the external auditor. 
The committee met four 
times during the year 
and comprises all 
Non-executive Directors. 
Remuneration 
committee
The committee met four 
times during the year and 
comprises all Non-executive 
Directors. The committee is 
responsible for establishing 
a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing 
policy on Executive 
remuneration and for 
setting the remuneration 
of individual Directors.
 Nomination 
committee
The committee 
is responsible for leading 
the Board appointments 
process and for 
considering the size, 
structure and composition 
of the Board and has met 
three times in the year. Full 
details of the work of the 
committee are set out in 
the nomination committee 
report on page 46.
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
Andy McKeon
Robin Taylor
Kevin Boyd
Andy McKeon
Chairman
Mike O’Leary
Robin Taylor
Kevin Boyd
Robin Taylor
Chairman
Mike O’Leary
Andy McKeon
Kevin Boyd
Board of Directors Board composition
 Chairman – Non-executive 1
 Executive 2
 Non-executive 3
 Company Secretary 1
 Corporate governance framework
Board composition
At the start of the year the Board of EMIS 
Group plc (“the Board”) consisted of 
Mike O’Leary, Non-executive Chairman; 
Chris Spencer, Chief Executive Officer; 
Peter Southby, Chief Financial Officer; 
Robin Taylor, Senior Non-executive Director; 
Sean Riddell, Non-executive Director, 
Andy McKeon, Non-executive Director 
and Kevin Boyd, Non-executive Director.
Sean Riddell resigned as a Non-executive 
Director on 30 January 2015.
Andy McKeon resigned on 2 April 2015, 
but, following an agreed leave of 
absence was reappointed to the Board 
as a Non-executive Director on 
30 September 2015.
Kevin Boyd, Andy McKeon, Mike O’Leary 
and Robin Taylor were considered by 
the Board to be independent on 
their appointment.
Appointments of Non-executive Directors 
are for speciﬁc terms and subject to 
statutory provisions relating to the 
removal of a Director.
Biographies of individual Directors are 
provided on pages 34 and 35. Their respective 
Board and committee responsibilities are 
outlined below and in the individual reports 
of the various committees. 
The Board is satisﬁed that the size of the 
Board and its committees and the balance 
of Executive and Non-executive members 
is such that no individual or small group of 
individuals can unduly inﬂuence its decisions.
The Executive Directors do not hold any 
Non-executive or Chairman positions in 
any other companies.
Roles and responsibilities
The Board
The Board’s principal role is to provide 
effective leadership of the Group. It is 
responsible to shareholders for delivering 
shareholder value by developing the 
overall strategy and supporting the 
development of the direction of the 
Group. The Board is also responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s external ﬁnancial 
and other reporting and for ensuring that 
appropriate risk management and internal 
control systems are implemented and 
maintained. These responsibilities are 
largely exercised through the audit 
committee, which reports separately 
on pages 43 to 45.
The Board has a schedule of matters 
reserved to it including, but not limited to:
• strategy and long-term objectives;
• ﬁnancial statements, dividend 
payments and accounting policies 
and practices;
• approval of the Group budget;
• measuring performance of KPIs, 
both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial;
• capital structure; 
• internal controls and risk management;
• acquisitions and disposals;
• major capital expenditure; 
• legal (including major contracts), health 
and safety and insurance issues; and 
• Board structure and the appointment 
of advisers. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
38
Governance
Corporate governance continued
Roles and responsibilities continued
The Board continued
The business model on pages 8 and 9 
explains the basis on which the Group 
generates and preserves value over the 
longer term, and the strategy of the 
Group and achievements in 2015 are 
outlined on pages 12 to 15. 
The Board undertakes a formal strategic 
review once a year. This two-day meeting 
reviews progress and seeks to develop 
the future strategic direction of the Group. 
It is attended by all Board members (on 
the ﬁrst day) and the members of the 
Group Executive Board which includes 
Divisional Managing Directors, the Group 
Human Resources Director, the Chief 
Medical Officer and the Chief Technology 
Officer. The forum considers the economic 
environment in which the Group operates, 
reviews the current business model and 
market opportunities, reviews the principal 
risks facing the Company and sets the key 
strategic priorities for the next three years 
and strategy for the longer term to enhance 
competitive advantage and shareholder value.
The Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer, 
Chris Spencer, is responsible for 
the implementation of the approved 
strategic and ﬁnancial objectives 
of the Group through the day-to-day 
leadership of the Group’s business, 
within deﬁned authority limits. 
To assist in this, the Chief Executive 
Officer has created a Group Executive 
Board (GXB) which consists of the 
Divisional Managing Directors, the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Group 
Human Resources Director, the 
Chief Medical Officer and the 
Chief Technology Officer. The GXB 
meets once a month with a focus 
on cross Group integration and 
operational performance.
The Chief Executive Officer:
• develops the Group strategy and 
leads the annual strategic forum;
• with the Chief Financial Officer, 
maintains close contact with 
government, shareholders and 
major customers;
• with the Chief Financial Officer, 
approves the divisional budgets;
• chairs the Group Executive Board 
(GXB) and leads the senior 
management team;
• monitors the performance 
of senior managers; and
• monitors the Group’s principal risks.
The Chairman
The roles of Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer are separate and 
deﬁned in writing. This provides 
a clear division of responsibilities 
between the running of the Board 
and the executive responsibility 
of running the business. 
Mike O’Leary, as Chairman, is 
responsible for the leadership 
and effectiveness of the Board.
The Chairman:
• chairs the Board, the nomination 
committee and the AGM; 
• provides challenge to the 
Executive Directors and works 
closely with the Chief Executive 
Officer on key strategic decisions;
• maintains a dialogue with major 
shareholders on governance and 
other strategic matters;
• sets the Board agenda and 
ensures all Directors have the 
opportunity to maximise their 
contribution to the Board by 
encouraging open debate and 
constructive challenge; and 
• undertakes the annual evaluation 
of the Board and builds an 
effective Board.
On his appointment, Mike O’Leary 
met the Code requirements for 
independence. There have been no 
signiﬁcant changes to his other 
commitments during the year which 
have an impact on his ability to 
perform his duties for the Group.
The Non-executive Directors 
The Non-executive Directors provide 
independent, constructive challenge 
and insight to the Executive team 
forming an integral part of the Board’s 
decision-making process together 
with the monitoring of management 
and business performance.
The Non-executive Directors play 
a key role in developing proposals 
on strategy, actively participating 
in the annual strategy forum.
They strengthen governance through 
participation in and chairmanship of the 
Board committees, providing a wide 
range of experience and independence. 
This aids the Board in developing 
a broader understanding and in 
evaluating the implications, risks 
and consequences of decisions. 
The Senior Non-executive Director 
acts as a sounding board for the 
other Directors and conducts the 
Chairman’s annual evaluation.
The Board is satisﬁed that the 
Chairman and all remaining  
Non-executive Directors were 
independent upon appointment. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
39
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Committees of the Board 
The Board delegates certain responsibilities 
to three sub-committees; the audit 
committee, the remuneration committee 
and the nomination committee. These 
responsibilities are set out in formal terms 
of reference for each committee, which 
are available on the Group’s website, 
www.emisgroupplc.com/investors/
corporate-governance. 
The chairman of each committee reports 
to the Board in relation to the committee’s 
activities and recommendations. Members 
of the Board who are not members of 
individual committees may be invited to 
attend meetings of those committees at 
the discretion of the respective committee’s 
chairman; however, they are not permitted 
to vote in respect of committee business. 
The following pages contain a report 
of the audit committee (pages 43 to 45) 
and the Directors’ remuneration report 
(pages 49 to 60). The nomination committee’s 
responsibilities and matters considered 
during the year are outlined on page 46.
Standing Agenda Items
At each meeting comprehensive Board 
packs are provided and the following 
standing items are discussed:
• Strategic review
• Financial Results and KPIs
• Sales Pipeline
• Management accounts 
and commentary
• Report from the CEO 
on operational matters
• Report from the CFO 
on ﬁnancial matters
• Mergers and Acquisitions
• Progress reports on major projects
• Analysts’ forecasts
• Board committee matters
• Investor relations engagement
• Legal, company secretarial and 
regulatory matters
• Implementation of actions 
agreed at previous meetings
• Mergers and acquisitions
Key Topics Considered by the Board 
in 2015
• Financial results announcements, 
presentations and market updates
• Group Human Resources strategy
• The establishment of EMIS Health 
India Private Ltd.
• The Group’s Viability Statement
• Due diligence and key terms of the 
PinBellCom Group Limited acquisition
• Other acquisition opportunities
• The 2016 Group budget
• The Board evaluation report and 
discussion of the recommendations
• Review, debate and challenge of the 
corporate strategy and plan
• International operations and strategy
• Risk proﬁle including receiving 
a presentation on cyber risk
• Product integration
• Management information and KPIs
• Two updates on the work of the 
software development team across 
the Group
• Two updates on environmental 
health and safety matters
• Rebranding proposals
• AAH contract proposal
• Secondary Care, Community 
Pharmacy and EMIS Care managing 
directors’ presentations
Board operation
The number of meetings of the Board 
and Board committees held during the 
year ended 31 December 2015 together 
with the Directors’ attendance records 
are summarised in the table on page 40.
Board and committee papers are 
circulated in advance of meetings to 
enable the Board to review and consider 
the materials provided. All Board members 
have access to the Company Secretary and, 
where appropriate and necessary for the 
discharge of their Board and committee 
responsibilities, independent external 
advice at the Company’s expense.
The Chairman ensures that input is sought 
and obtained from any Director who is unable 
to attend a Board meeting and he provides 
a verbal update following the meeting to 
complement the minutes.
There is on-going contact between 
the Chairman, Executive Directors 
and Non-executive Directors between 
Board meetings.
There is a topical calendar for the Board 
with Divisional Managing Directors and 
key Group functional directors regularly 
invited to attend to present an update on 
their areas of the business. This is critical 
in providing further detail to support 
strategic decisions. The location for Board 
meetings is rotated around the Group’s 
principal sites in order to provide 
opportunities to meet senior management 
and develop a better understanding of 
operations. In addition, the Board meets 
on an ad hoc basis as necessary to consider 
speciﬁc issues, such as acquisitions, which 
are supported by a detailed Board paper 
circulated in advance analysing all relevant 
aspects of the topic under discussion.  EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
40
Governance
Board and committee effectiveness
The Chairman undertook an internal 
performance evaluation of individual 
Directors and the Board as a whole. 
The evaluation process considered the 
balance of skills, knowledge, independence 
and experience of the Board. 
Each Director was asked to complete 
a tailored questionnaire which covered 
all aspects of good governance. 
Individual Directors were required to 
assess their satisfaction with the operation 
of the Board and its committees and the 
effectiveness of these bodies in fulﬁlling 
the key responsibilities set out in their 
respective terms of reference. The responses 
were collated and discussed. 
Overall, responses indicated a high degree 
of satisfaction with the working methods of 
each Director, the Board and its committees. 
Board members agreed that the Board 
has sought to continuously improve the 
way it operates throughout the year. 
During the year, the Chairman met with 
the Non-executive Directors without the 
Executive Directors present. 
As Senior Independent Director, Robin 
Taylor discussed the performance of the 
Chairman with the other members of the 
Board. The consensus was that Mike O’Leary 
is engaged, knowledgeable and inclusive 
and encourages all members to discuss 
and debate on all matters of signiﬁcance 
to the strategy and well being of 
the business.
The Board evaluation concluded that 
the Directors are open, constructive and 
able to express their views, and that the 
Board meets its regulatory requirements. 
The action plan for areas identiﬁed for 
improvement focuses on enhancing 
the quality of information to support 
Board decisions and broaden debate. 
Activity has commenced to review all 
the Board pack information and KPIs to 
improve further the timeliness, quality 
Corporate governance continued
Number of meetings of the Board and Board committees during the year
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board committee committee committee
Number of meetings in period 12 4 3 4 
Attendance
Executive Directors
Chris Spencer 12 — — — 
Peter Southby 12 — — — 
Non-executive Directors 
Mike O’Leary 12 4 3 4
Robin Taylor 12 4 3 4
Kevin Boyd 12 4 3 4
Andrew McKeon 4 1 1 1
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who 
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with. The Company Secretary supports the Board committees and 
assists in the evaluation of the Board. The Directors all have access to the Group’s 
key advisers. There is a procedure for the Directors to take independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense, if required in the performance of their duties, 
and appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the 
Directors. The Company has adopted and maintained a share dealing code for 
Directors and senior employees.
and consistency of data. To enable decisions 
to be made against a clearer strategic 
context, the structure of the off-site strategy 
review will be considered to ensure it 
facilitates robust challenge and sufficient 
time to review and shape strategic direction. 
Greater interaction with the wider 
management team will be encouraged 
to provide additional depth of information 
to support discussions. An additional 
review of the succession plan for the Board, 
including diversity, will be undertaken.
Training and development 
On appointment to the Board, Directors 
receive a formal induction and thereafter 
receive further guidance and training as 
and when required. The senior management 
report to the Board on a regular basis and 
the Board conducts site visits to ensure 
that an understanding of the business and 
its technology is developed. All Directors 
are encouraged to attend relevant training 
courses and events.
The process for the appointment of new 
Directors is rigorous and transparent, and 
further information is contained in the report 
of the nomination committee on page 46. 
New Directors receive a comprehensive 
pack of information and a tailored induction 
programme that includes meeting senior 
managers. This ensures that knowledge 
and understanding of the business and 
its technology are developed. 
Board committees
The Board has three formally established 
committees, with written terms of reference, 
which are reviewed annually by the Board. 
The terms of reference of the committees 
are available on the Company’s website. 
Committee membership is as shown 
in the table on page 37. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
41
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Board committees continued
Audit committee
Robin Taylor was chairman of the audit 
committee for the period under review. 
The committee is responsible for overseeing 
the external ﬁnancial reporting obligations 
and associated announcements, considering 
risk management, internal controls 
procedures and the work of the internal 
audit function and the external auditor. 
The committee met four times during 
the year and is comprised of all of the 
Non-Executive Directors. Full details of 
the work of the committee are set out in 
the audit committee report on page 44.
Remuneration committee
Andy McKeon was chairman of the 
remuneration committee from 1 January 2015 
to 2 April 2015 and from 21 September 
2015 onwards. Robin Taylor chaired the 
committee from 3 April 2015 to 
20 September 2015. The committee met 
four times during the year and comprises 
all Non-executive Directors. The committee 
is responsible for establishing a formal 
and transparent procedure for developing 
policy on Executive remuneration and for 
setting the remuneration of individual 
Directors. Full details of the work of the 
committee are set out in the remuneration 
committee report on page 48.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee is chaired 
by Mike O’Leary and comprises all the 
Non-executive Directors. The committee 
is responsible for leading the Board 
appointments process and for considering 
the size, structure and composition of the 
Board. The committee met three times 
in the year. Full details of the work of the 
committee are set out in the nomination 
committee report on page 46.
Internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for 
the Group’s internal control arrangements 
and for reviewing their effectiveness. 
Such arrangements guide and direct the 
activities of the Group to support delivery 
of its strategic, ﬁnancial, operational and 
other objectives and safeguard shareholders’ 
investment and the Group’s assets. 
The Board recognises that a system 
of internal control reduces, but cannot 
eliminate, the likelihood and/or impact 
of poor judgement in decision-making, 
human error, deliberate circumvention 
of control processes by employees 
and others, management override 
of controls and the occurrence of 
unforeseeable circumstances. 
The Board sets policies and seeks 
and obtains on an on-going basis, both 
directly and through the audit committee, 
assurance regarding the existence and 
operation of appropriate internal controls 
to mitigate key strategic, ﬁnancial, 
operational, compliance and reputation 
risks. The Board and audit committee 
consider any signiﬁcant control matters 
raised in reports from management, the 
Company’s external auditor and the Group 
Internal Audit Manager, and it monitors 
the progress of remedial actions.
The key components of the Group’s overall 
control framework, all of which were in 
place, or established, throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and up to the 
date of approval of this report, are set 
out on pages 16 to 18.
The Group has extensive internal quality 
assurance processes in critical areas of 
the business and there are functions within 
the Group that provide assurance and 
advice covering specialist areas, such as 
information security and clinical safety.
These are reviewed on an annual basis 
against the current factors relevant to 
the Company’s activities, markets or other 
areas of the external environment that 
may, or may not be expected to, increase 
the risks faced by the Company.
The Group currently has ﬁve ISO registrations 
including ISO27001 – Information Security.
Financial planning and monitoring 
EMIS Group sets annual budgets, 
incorporating three-year projections, 
which are subject to Board approval.
The Board reviews business performance 
when it meets. Summary ﬁnancial information, 
including actual performance versus budget 
and expected performance and prior year 
comparatives, is provided to all Board 
members on a monthly basis. The monthly 
reporting process is supplemented by a 
cycle of quarterly reviews that incorporate 
in-depth re-forecasting of expected ﬁnancial 
performance for the remainder of the current 
ﬁnancial year.
Policies, procedures and authorisation limits 
The Group has grown both organically 
and through business acquisition in recent 
years. This has resulted in a mix of locally 
deﬁned policies and procedures covering 
a range of activities, which are adequate, 
but not necessarily fully aligned with each 
other. Plans are in place to implement a 
range of Group-wide policies and procedures 
including a Finance Manual (complementing 
the roll-out of a Group-wide ERP system), 
a revised Conﬁdential Whistleblowing 
Hotline Policy and a revised Business 
Expenses Policy. Hay Group commenced 
work to conduct a review of pay and 
beneﬁts across the Group.
Segregation of duties, authorisation 
limits and other key internal controls are 
designed into both system-based and 
manual processes. These arrangements 
are reviewed periodically by management, 
internal quality assurance functions 
and internal audit to ensure they 
remain appropriate. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
42
Governance
Corporate governance continued
Risk management 
The risk management process is 
described in the report of the audit 
committee on page 44. Principal risks and 
uncertainties are described in detail on 
pages 16 to 18.
The Board also considers the nature and 
extent of the principal risks for which 
it has appetite in achieving its strategic 
objectives and maintains sound risk 
management and internal control 
systems. There are formal and transparent 
arrangements for considering how 
corporate reporting, risk management 
and internal control principles are applied 
and for maintaining an appropriate 
relationship with the Company’s auditor. 
The principal risks and uncertainties that 
the Group faces, and features of the 
internal control system that operated 
throughout the period covered by the 
accounts, are referred to either below, 
or in the report of the audit committee on 
pages 43 to 45. The approach to risk 
management and the principal risks 
themselves are set out on pages 16 to 18.
Internal audit
During the year, the Group established 
an internal audit function and recruited 
a suitably qualiﬁed and experienced 
individual in the role of Group Internal 
Audit Manager. The Chair of the audit 
committee was involved in the 
recruitment process. 
The Group Internal Audit Manager 
reports administratively to the Group 
Financial Controller but also has direct 
and unfettered access to the chairman 
of the audit committee. This situation 
will be kept under review to ensure the 
function maintains its independence from 
management. The provision for internal 
audit is described in the report of the 
audit committee on page 43.
Other key controls which contribute 
to the overall management of the 
Group include: 
• Authorisation limits are in place for 
the approval of all contracts.
• Each principal business in the 
Group has an appropriate ﬁnance 
function with suitably qualiﬁed and 
experienced professionals. Divisional 
ﬁnance leads report into the Divisional 
Managing Directors and the Group 
Financial Controller.
• A comprehensive monthly ﬁnancial 
reporting system is in place which covers, 
amongst other things, operating results, 
cash ﬂow, balance sheet information, 
forecasts and comparisons 
against budgets.
• The Board receives regular updates 
from management on property, pensions, 
insurance, litigation, human resources, 
corporate social responsibility and 
health and safety matters.
• The Group has commenced the roll-out 
of a common ERP solution (Microsoft 
Dynamics AX) across the Group to 
improve controls, business and 
ﬁnancial reporting and processes.
Investor relations
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
At the AGM, on 26 April 2016, separate 
resolutions will be proposed for each 
substantially different issue. Proxy votes 
are disclosed by means of an announcement 
on the London Stock Exchange and via 
the Group’s website. All Directors, including 
the committee Chairmen, will be available 
to answer questions at the AGM. The 
annual report, ﬁnancial statements and 
related papers are placed on the Group’s 
website and posted to shareholders if 
they have requested a paper copy. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
43
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Report of the audit committee
Dear Shareholder
As chairman of the audit committee, I am 
pleased to present our report for the year 
ended 31 December 2015.
The report provides insight into the 
composition of the audit committee 
and the work it undertakes to ensure that 
it has performed its main responsibilities 
in reviewing ﬁnancial reporting, internal 
control procedures and risk management 
and in relation to the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor.
During the year, an internal audit function 
was established and a suitably qualiﬁed 
and experienced Group Internal Audit 
Manager appointed. The internal audit 
function objectively reviews the Company’s 
internal control processes in line with the 
risk-based internal audit plan approved by 
the committee. The plan is based primarily 
on output from the risk management 
process, but it is ﬂexible and may include 
ad hoc investigations and other assurance 
work as agreed by the committee. Specialist 
technical knowledge and resource may be 
externally sourced if and when required. 
Internal audit operates in accordance with 
its Audit Charter, which was approved by 
the audit committee.
Composition and governance
The committee’s terms of reference are 
on the Group’s website and are reviewed 
and approved by the Board each year.
In addition to my role as chairman of 
the audit committee, I am also Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director. I am 
a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland and have served 
as Chief Financial Officer of several main 
market listed companies. The Board 
considers both myself and Kevin Boyd, 
who is the current Group Finance Director 
of Oxford Instruments plc, to have relevant 
ﬁnancial experience, in accordance with 
section C.3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board evaluates the membership 
of the committee on an annual basis.
The other members of the committee are 
Andy McKeon and Mike O’Leary. The Board 
considered all members of the committee 
to be independent on appointment. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Group Internal Audit Manager, 
Group Financial Controller and senior 
representatives of the external auditor 
attend committee meetings by invitation 
to ensure that all relevant information 
is available to the committee.
Biographical details are set out on pages 
34 and 35 respectively. 
The Board believes that the current 
members have sufficient skills, qualiﬁcations 
and experience to discharge their duties 
in accordance with the committee’s terms 
of reference. 
As chairman of the audit committee, 
I report to the Board following each 
committee meeting and meet with 
the external auditor, without executive 
management present, to discuss matters 
relating to its remit and any issues relating 
to the audit. I also meet with the external 
auditor, the Chief Financial Officer and the 
Group Internal Audit Manager regularly 
outside the formal meetings to ensure 
that any areas for discussion are dealt 
with on a timely basis.
How the committee discharged 
its responsibilities
During the year, the audit committee 
reviewed the frequency of meetings being 
held and increased the minimum number 
to four each year, aligned with the ﬁnancial 
reporting calendar. 
The audit committee is assisted in 
discharging its responsibilities by executive 
management reports, internal and external 
audit reports, engagement with the Executive 
Management Team at the annual strategy 
meeting and by regular business planning 
and performance presentations.
An internal review of the effectiveness 
of the audit committee was carried out 
during the year, and no major deﬁciencies 
were noted. Executive management 
assisted the audit committee in ensuring 
that relevant papers of good quality were 
presented to allow informed debate and 
that sufficient time was available for review. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
44
Governance
Report of the audit committee continued
How the committee discharged its responsibilities continued
The work undertaken by the audit committee during the past year is detailed below:
Financial reporting
• Reviewed the full-year results including the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary results statement and the report from 
the external auditor. In reviewing the statements and determining whether they were fair, balanced and understandable, 
the committee considered the work and recommendations of management as well as the report from the external auditor.
• Reviewed the interim results statement.
• Considered the appropriateness of accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements. To do this the 
committee considered information provided by the Chief Financial Officer and reports from the external auditor setting 
out their views on the accounting treatments and judgements in the ﬁnancial statements. 
• Reviewed the going concern assumptions when considering interim and ﬁnal results statements and long-term viability when considering 
the ﬁnal results statement, taking into account internal ﬁnancial projections and the results of stress testing the ﬁnancial models.
Risk management and internal control
• Reviewed the Group risk management process and concluded that it is appropriate and operating effectively. The committee 
considers that the principal business risks are being captured and reported to the Board monthly and that the risk disclosures 
in the annual report are appropriate.
• Considered the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems. There is continued focus on the quality and 
timeliness of internal ﬁnancial reporting with the on-going programme to roll out the new Microsoft Dynamics AX ERP 
solution across the Group. The system is now live in EMIS Health Primary Care, EMIS Group plc and Egton.
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the current procedures for the prevention of fraud. The committee reviewed the measures 
in place for the prevention and detection of fraud including extensive internal quality assurance processes and the system 
of internal ﬁnancial controls as set out in the corporate governance report.
• Reviewed the appropriateness of internal ﬁnancial controls including cyber security risk and potential preventative measures.
• Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit and Group ﬁnance functions.
• Reviewed the whistleblowing policy to ensure arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation 
of any reported incidents. Arrangements for an independent third party whistleblowing hotline have now been put in place. 
The whistleblowing policy includes provision for employees to raise concerns with the Senior Non-executive Director. No matters 
were reported during the year. 
• Reviewed the effectiveness of current compliance with the Bribery Act. There were no areas of non-compliance reported 
to the committee during the year and the committee was satisﬁed with current procedures, including training on the Bribery 
Act given to all employees.
External auditors
• Reviewed the scope and the audit plan for the year-end Group and subsidiary audits.
• Reviewed the formal engagement terms, objectivity and independence of the auditor, including the qualiﬁcations, expertise and 
resources available. KPMG has been the Company’s external auditor since 2013, with the current audit partner having been appointed 
in that year. Relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into consideration including the extent of non-audit 
work undertaken. The audit committee is consulted prior to engagement of the external auditor for non-audit work and formally 
approves any individually material non-audit services. Consideration is given to any perceived threat to independence prior to 
the procurement of non-audit services from the external auditor, with other external advisers used where appropriate. During 
the year the cost of non-audit services carried out by the auditor amounted to £176,000, which related principally to tax and 
forensic investigation services, the latter further to the employee fraud detected at the start of 2015 as disclosed in last year’s 
audit committee report. Full details of fees paid to KPMG in the year are set out in note 6 to the ﬁnancial statements.
• Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process by reviewing, amongst other things, whether the auditor has met 
the agreed audit plan and by considering the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its handling of key accounting 
and audit judgements identiﬁed. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
45
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Financial reporting and signiﬁcant areas of judgement
In ﬁnalising the 2015 ﬁnancial statements, the signiﬁcant judgements considered by the committee and discussed with the 
external auditor were as follows:
Nature of the Issue What the committee considered and any actions undertaken
Carrying amount of 
goodwill, intangible assets 
acquired and investments
The carrying amounts of goodwill, intangible assets acquired and investments are reviewed for 
impairment at least annually and are assessed against the net present value of projected cash 
ﬂows for each cash-generating unit. Details of the assumptions used in relation to the review 
of goodwill carrying value are set out in note 13 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Following the reviews during the year, an impairment charge of £18,500,000 has been 
recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, comprising a reduction in 
the carrying value of goodwill of £16,183,000 and of investment in associates of £2,317,000. 
The former relates to the carrying value of goodwill arising on the Secondary Care (Ascribe)
acquisition, and reﬂects the fact that the business has not yet delivered the ﬁnancial returns 
expected when the business joined the Group in 2013. The latter is in respect of the Group’s 
minority investment in Pharmacy2U, held since 2005. This business has had a troubled year, 
including a number of fundraising rounds in which the Group has chosen not to participate. 
The Group’s interest has reduced accordingly and is now below 15%. In the circumstances, the 
Directors believe that it is appropriate to impair fully the Group’s investment in the business.
The committee discussed the assumptions underlying the related cash ﬂow projections with 
both management and KPMG and also considered the appropriateness of the discount rates 
used. Following discussion on headroom and sensitivity, the committee was satisﬁed that the 
carrying amount of goodwill, intangible assets acquired and investments, after the impairment 
charge recognised in the year, was appropriate.
Revenue recognition The audit committee considered the Group’s revenue recognition policies and concluded that 
the Group’s existing approach remained appropriate, noting that this was adequately explained 
in the revenue recognition accounting policy note and consistent with the requirements of IAS 18. 
The external auditor performed substantive testing in this area and reported its ﬁndings 
to the committee.
Research and 
Development costs
The process to capture and categorise development costs was reviewed. There were no material 
changes to this process from the prior year, with the roll-out of Microsoft Dynamics AX during 
2016 expected to further improve the quality of reporting in this area. Balances carried forward 
in respect of development costs were considered for possible impairment and the committee 
concluded that the carrying values and amortisation periods were appropriate.
Robin Taylor
Chairman of the audit committee
15 March 2016 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
46
Governance
Report of the nomination committee
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present our report 
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Roles and responsibilities
The committee is responsible for:
• ensuring that the balance of Directors 
on the Board remains appropriate as 
the Group develops to ensure that the 
business can compete effectively in 
the marketplace; 
• identifying and nominating candidates 
to ﬁll Board vacancies as and when 
they arise;
• evaluation of the balance of skills, 
knowledge, experience and diversity 
of the Board to ensure the optimum 
mix; and
• considering the succession planning 
for Directors and senior managers to 
ensure that there is a pipeline of high 
calibre candidates and that succession 
is managed smoothly.
The committee has met three times 
during the year. The committee has terms 
of reference which are regularly reviewed 
and are published on the Group’s website. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed 
by a letter of engagement and details of 
their terms and those of the Executive 
Directors are given on pages 54 and 55.
Review of activity during the year
• Following the decision of 
Andy McKeon to step down as 
Non-executive Director for personal 
reasons, the committee reviewed the 
balance of experience on the Board 
and concluded that there was 
no immediate need to recruit an 
additional Non-executive Director. 
Andy McKeon remained as a 
consultant to the Board during 
his agreed leave of absence and the 
need to replace his expertise on 
the Board was kept under regular 
review throughout the period.
• As part of the Board evaluation 
process, the committee considered in 
detail the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity of the Board 
as a whole and it was agreed that there 
was currently no requirement to recruit 
an additional Non-executive Director. 
This would be kept under review. 
• The committee considered succession 
planning for the Board and senior 
managers within the Group. This was 
also considered by the full Board. 
Coaching and mentoring was provided 
to senior individuals and during the 
course of the year opportunities were 
identiﬁed to support the broadening 
of skills sets and experience. 
• The committee considered its 
performance and terms of reference 
and concluded it continued to 
operate effectively.
The committee considered the following 
proposed appointments, having given 
regard to their ability to continue to 
contribute to the Board going forward. 
In all cases the Directors who were subject 
to election or re-election were not present 
and did not vote when proposals regarding 
their own position were discussed:
• election of Kevin Boyd as Non-executive 
Director at the AGM on 29 April 2015 in 
accordance with the Code;
• re-election of all of the other 
members of the Board at the AGM 
on the 29 April 2015 in accordance 
with the Code;
• election of Andrew McKeon as 
Non-executive Director at the AGM 
on 26 April 2016 in accordance with 
the Code; and 
• re-election of all other members of the 
Board at the AGM on the 26 April 2016 
in line with the articles of association and, 
after due consideration, recommendation 
of their re-appointment to the Board.
Mike O’Leary
Chairman of the nomination committee
15 March 2016 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
47
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Report of the remuneration committee
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to 
present the report of the remuneration 
committee for 2015. This report is split into 
three sections: ﬁrstly, my report, which 
summarises the work of the remuneration 
committee during the year and outlines 
some of the factors taken into account by 
the committee when reaching key decisions; 
secondly, the Remuneration Policy which 
is included here for ease of reference; 
and, ﬁnally, the annual report on 
remuneration. The annual report sets out 
the remuneration paid to Directors in 2015 
including bonus payments and long-term 
incentives and also includes the detail on 
how we intend to implement our 
Remuneration Policy in 2016.
As the Company is quoted on AIM, it is 
not required to comply with the UK Listing 
Authority Rules or the UK Corporate 
Governance Code; however in 2013, the 
committee did decide to adopt a number 
of the key reporting requirements from this 
guidance. The committee remains committed 
to continuing development of best practice, 
where appropriate, in Remuneration Policy. 
The committee has clearly deﬁned terms 
of reference which are reviewed annually 
by the committee. These are available on the 
website at www.emisgroupplc.com/investors.
The remuneration report will be 
presented at the Annual General Meeting on 
26 April 2016 by way of an advisory vote.
Corporate performance
As outlined in the strategic report on 
pages 1 to 33, EMIS Group had another 
strong year in 2015, delivering a 13% increase 
in revenue and a 12% rise in adjusted 
operating proﬁt, achieved both organically 
and through the recently acquired 
businesses. Overall, trading for the year 
was in line with the Board’s expectations 
and the Group increased its like-for-like 
operating margin from 23.7% to 24.4%. 
Our market leading position in UK 
Primary Care was maintained and 
the Group continued its contract win 
momentum in CCMH. The leading position 
in the independent pharmacy market was 
maintained and a major contract was 
secured which will give further market 
share growth over the next 18 months. 
However in Secondary & Specialist Care, 
the Secondary Care business was impacted 
by a slower than hoped for rate of contract 
awards. EMIS Health Specialist and Care 
delivered a strong set of results for the year.
The Group’s revenue visibility, order book 
and pipeline remained strong, with the 
Group achieving 20% growth in recurring 
revenue in the period.
Committee membership
During the year I took an agreed leave of 
absence from the Board from 2 April 2015 
and was re-appointed to the Board and as 
Chair of the remuneration committee on 
30 September 2015. During this time, our 
Senior Non-executive Director, Robin Taylor, 
assumed the role of Chair of the remuneration 
committee and I would like to thank Robin 
for his stewardship during this period. 
Remuneration for 2015
As in previous years, Executive Directors 
were eligible to receive a bonus depending 
on the level of Group adjusted proﬁt achieved. 
Performance targets were stretching and 
based on the ﬁnancial performance of the 
Group. Performance during the year, taking 
into account the impact of acquisitions 
and associated costs in the year, did not 
result in an on-target performance and 
therefore the committee concluded that, 
in line with the rules, no bonus payments 
would be made.
Further details about the variable pay 
awards are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 49 to 60.  EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
48
Governance
Report of the remuneration committee continued
Implementation of policy for 2016
Base salaries – when Chris Spencer and Peter Southby were appointed in 2013 and 2012 respectively, their overall remuneration 
package was based on advice from Kepler Associates and set against market practice and, more particularly, their experience on 
appointment. The committee agreed that a more detailed review would take place in November 2015 with a view to an increase being 
considered and any agreed change being implemented from 1 January 2016. 
Kepler Associates again benchmarked the remuneration of the CEO and CFO against roles at companies of a similar size and sector. 
Both Chris’ and Peter’s salaries were reported as lower quartile. The committee also considered individual performance, any increase 
in responsibilities and overall contribution to the Group when assessing whether an increase was merited and, if so, its size. Our key 
consideration when reviewing base salary continues to be performance and growth in the role. 
In relation to Chris Spencer, the committee considered he has clearly demonstrated considerable development in the role and also took 
into account his deep understanding of the business, its signiﬁcant growth in size since he was appointed, its increasing complexity 
and the market in which it operates. He has developed a clear vision and strategic direction for the Group and established strong 
credibility in the external market. The committee therefore considered it appropriate to increase Chris Spencer’s salary from £312,000 
to £350,000. However, Chris requested that, in light of cost reductions being taken elsewhere, the increase should be postponed until 
1 January 2017. The committee accepted his request. Chris Spencer will receive an increase of 2% in 2016. 
Peter Southby has grown considerably in his CFO role since joining the Group and has received excellent feedback from external 
advisers again during the course of the year. He continues to successfully manage the Group ﬁnance team for a larger and more 
complex business than when he joined. His role has also been extended to cover other Group functions including Legal, Human 
Resources, Health and Safety, Facilities, Purchasing and Governance. The committee considers that Peter has grown and developed 
successfully and ably performs his CFO and extended role and therefore the committee considers it appropriate to increase his 
salary from £225,000 to £250,000 in 2016. 
Major shareholders were consulted regarding the committee’s proposed changes.
Bonus payments – In future, all bonus payments will be subject to claw back. In addition, Executive Directors are required to invest 
40% of any net bonus payment in shares of the Company until the relevant minimum shareholding applicable to their role is met. 
This came into effect on 1 January 2016.
LTIP - LTIP awards continue to be subject to claw back. In addition from 1 January 2016, Executive Directors and certain other senior 
managers in the Group are subject to the requirement to use vested shares to add to their shareholding until the relevant minimum 
shareholding applicable to their role is met.
I hope that you ﬁnd the information in this report useful and I look forward to your support at the forthcoming AGM. 
Andy McKeon
Chairman of the remuneration committee
15 March 2016
The committee also considered the following issues: 
• Reviewed the AGM voting outcome for the 2014 report.
• Reviewed the overall remuneration packages (including 
pension) of the Executive Directors with the aim of 
recognising best practice, aligning with shareholder 
objectives and encouraging behaviours to maintain 
the long-term success of the business.
• The committee also approved the performance measures 
set for the bonus scheme.
• Reviewed reward structures for the Executive 
management and the wider management team.
• Reviewed and approved all awards made under the 
Company share option plan (CSOP). The committee also 
approved the performance measures set for the CSOP.
• Approved the vesting of the awards under the 2012 CSOP. 
• Approved the vesting of an award, at the ﬁrst measurement 
date, to Peter Southby granted on 2 May 2013.
• Reviewed and approved all awards made under the LTIP. 
The committee also approved the performance 
measures set for the LTIP. 
• Reviewed the CSOP and LTIP structure taking into account 
current market best practice and institutional investors’ 
current guidelines.
• Considered external market developments and best 
practice in remuneration.
• Reviewed the committee terms of reference. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
49
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Policy aims to ensure that members of the Board and Executive management are provided with appropriate 
incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their contribution to the 
success of the Group. The policy outlined on pages 49 to 55 applied from 29 April 2015.
Policy table
The policy table below summarises the key components of remuneration for Executive Directors: 
Element Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To recognise the individual’s 
skills and experience and 
provide a competitive base 
reward to attract and retain 
Executive Directors.
Base salaries are reviewed 
annually, taking into account 
the individual’s performance, 
responsibility, skills and 
experience; Group performance 
and market conditions; salary 
levels for similar roles at relevant 
comparators (including 
companies of a similar size 
and sector); and pay levels 
and salary increases across the 
wider employee population.
Any changes take effect from 
1 January each year.
Any increase will typically be 
in line with those awarded to 
the wider employee population. 
The committee has discretion 
to award higher increases in 
circumstances that it considers 
appropriate, such as a material 
change in complexity of the 
business or responsibility of 
the role. Details of salary 
changes will be disclosed in 
the annual report for the 
relevant year.
None.
Pension
To provide a market 
competitive retirement beneﬁt.
The Group makes 
contributions to the private 
pension schemes or other 
appropriate arrangements for 
the Executive Directors.
Executive Directors receive 
a contribution of up to 15% 
of salary.
None.
Share incentive plan (SIP)
Open to all UK tax resident 
employees of participating 
Group companies with at 
least one year’s service. 
Executive Directors are 
eligible to participate.
The plan is an HMRC approved 
plan that allows an employee 
to purchase shares using gross 
pay. If an employee agrees to 
purchase shares, the Company 
matches purchased shares with 
an award of matching shares 
which are subject to continued 
employment for three years. 
Dividends accrue on purchased 
shares and matching shares.
Participants can purchase 
shares up to the prevailing 
HMRC approved limit at the 
time employees are invited 
to participate (currently up 
to £1,800 per annum).
The Company currently 
offers to match purchases 
made through the plan at 
the rate of one free matching 
share for every three 
shares purchased.
None. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
50
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Policy table continued
Element Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Beneﬁts
To provide market 
competitive beneﬁts.
Beneﬁts may include, 
but are not limited to, 
a car or car allowance 
and life insurance. 
In certain circumstances, 
the committee may also 
approve the provision 
of additional allowances 
relating to the relocation 
of an Executive Director and 
other expatriate beneﬁts to 
perform his or her role.
Beneﬁts vary by role and 
individual circumstances and 
are reviewed periodically. 
Beneﬁts in respect of the year 
under review are disclosed in 
the annual report.
The committee retains 
the discretion to approve 
a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation) 
or in circumstances where 
factors outside the Group’s 
control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases 
in insurance premiums).
None.
Annual bonus
To provide an incentive to 
drive the Executive Directors to 
deliver stretching performance 
and growth.
Performance measures, 
targets and weightings are 
set by the committee at the 
start of the year. 
At the end of each year, 
the committee determines 
the extent to which targets 
have been achieved.
Bonus payments are delivered 
entirely in cash and from 
1 January 2016 are subject 
to claw back.
Executive Directors are subject 
to the requirement to invest 40% 
of any net bonus payment in 
shares of the company until 
the minimum shareholding 
level relevant to their role is 
met. This came into effect 
on 1 January 2016.
For Executive Directors, 
the maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 100% of 
base salary. 
No bonus is payable until 
target performance is 
achieved. For target 
performance, the bonus 
level is 50% of maximum.
Performance is assessed 
on an annual basis, using 
a combination of the 
Group’s main KPIs for the 
year. Measures may include 
ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial 
metrics as well as the 
achievement of personal 
objectives. The ﬁnancial 
performance measure 
currently applied is Group 
adjusted proﬁt; however, the 
committee has the 
discretion to adjust the 
performance measures and 
weightings to ensure that they 
continue to be linked to the 
delivery of Group strategy.
The range of performance 
required under each measure 
is calibrated with reference to 
the Group’s internal budgets. 
Any individual element is 
based on the strength of 
the Executive’s personal 
performance over the 
course of the year. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
51
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Policy table continued
Annual bonus continued
The committee has the 
discretion to adjust the 
formulaic bonus outcomes 
both upwards (within the 
plan limits) and downwards 
to ensure that payments 
accurately reﬂect business 
performance over the 
performance period, e.g. 
in the event of unforeseen 
circumstances outside 
of management control.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
To drive sustained long-term 
business performance, aid 
retention and align the 
interests of Executive Directors 
with shareholders.
Awards of shares or nil cost 
options vest subject to the 
achievement of pre-deﬁned 
performance conditions 
over a three-year period. 
At the start of each 
performance period, the 
committee reviews award 
levels and performance 
conditions to ensure they 
remain appropriate and 
sets performance targets 
which it considers to be 
appropriately stretching. 
Dividend payments do 
not accrue.
LTIP awards are subject 
to claw back.
Executive Directors are subject 
to the requirement to use vested 
shares to add to their beneﬁcial 
shareholding until the minimum 
shareholding level relevant 
to their role is met.
The LTIP provides for annual 
awards of performance shares 
of up to 100% of salary.
Threshold performance will 
result in 25% of maximum 
vesting, rising on a straight 
line basis to full vesting 
for maximum levels 
of performance.
Awards vest subject to 
continued employment and 
Group performance. The 
current performance 
measure is growth in EPS; 
however, the committee has 
the discretion to adjust the 
performance measures and 
weightings to ensure that they 
continue to be linked to the 
delivery of Group strategy.
Awards under the LTIP 
have a vesting (performance) 
period of three years and 
must be held for two years 
from their vesting date.
As under the annual bonus, 
the committee has the 
discretion to adjust the 
formulaic LTIP outcomes 
to ensure that payments 
accurately reﬂect business 
performance over the 
performance period, e.g. 
in the event of unforeseen 
circumstances outside 
of management control. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
52
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Notes to the policy table
Performance measurement selection
The aim of the annual bonus plan is 
to reward key Executives over and above 
base salary for the achievement of business 
objectives. The bonus criteria are selected 
annually to reﬂect the Group’s main ﬁnancial 
KPIs for the year and are designed to 
encourage continuous performance 
improvement for the Group. Group ﬁnancial 
performance targets relating to the annual 
bonus plan are set from the Group’s annual 
budget, which is reviewed and signed 
off by the Group Board prior to the start 
of each ﬁnancial year. Adjusted proﬁt 
is currently used as a key performance 
indicator for the annual bonus plan because 
it is a clear measure of the underlying 
ﬁnancial performance of the Group. 
LTIP awards currently vest based on 
EPS growth over three years. EPS has 
been selected as it is a key measure of 
long-term performance for the Group 
and is closely aligned with the Group’s 
strategic plans and with the proﬁt 
attributable to shareholders. For the 
LTIP, performance measures and targets 
are reviewed by the committee ahead 
of each grant and must be considered 
by the committee to be challenging 
but achievable. 
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP 
are reviewed regularly, based on a number 
of internal and external reference points. 
Performance targets are set to be 
stretching but achievable, with regard 
to the particular strategic priorities and 
economic environment in a given year.
Remuneration policy for other employees
The approach to annual salary reviews 
is consistent across the Group, with 
consideration given to individual 
performance, skills, experience and 
responsibility; Group performance and 
market conditions; and salary levels for 
similar roles in relevant comparators. 
Opportunities and speciﬁc performance 
conditions vary by organisational level 
with business area-speciﬁc metrics 
incorporated where appropriate. A senior 
management group of approximately 
30 individuals is eligible to participate 
in the LTIP. Performance conditions are 
consistent for all participants, while 
award sizes vary by organisational level. 
Speciﬁc cash incentives are also in place 
to motivate, reward and retain staff below 
Board level. All UK-based employees are 
eligible to participate in the Company’s 
SIP scheme on the same terms.
Shareholding guidelines
The committee continues to 
recognise the importance of Executive 
Directors aligning their interests with 
shareholders through building up a 
signiﬁcant shareholding in the Company. 
Shareholding guidelines are in place 
requiring Executive Directors to acquire 
a minimum holding, equivalent to 300% 
of base salary for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 100% of base salary for the 
Chief Financial Officer. A Director is only 
permitted to dispose of shares if it does 
not take the holding below the relevant 
minimum level or if the disposal was to 
meet a tax or other liability created by 
the vesting of a share award.
Shares granted under the LTIP must be held 
for two years from their vesting date, subject 
to any sale to meet a tax or other liability. 
Shares held during the retention period 
are also subject to a claw back provision. 
Pay scenario charts for Executive Directors
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the two current Executive Directors for 
2016 and the potential split between different elements of remuneration under three different scenarios: “Minimum”, “Target” 
and “Maximum” performance.
— Basic salary and beneﬁts
— Bonus
— Long term incentives
Chief Executive Officer – Chris Spencer
0 £000s 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200
Maximum
£395k
£634k
£1,032k
Target
Minimum
Chief Financial Officer – Peter Southby
0 200 400 600 800 1,200 1,000
Maximum
Target
Minimum
£804k
£491k
£304k
£000s EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
53
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Pay scenario charts for Executive Directors continued
Potential reward opportunities illustrated on page 52 are based on the Remuneration Policy, applied to the base salary as at 
1 January 2016. It should be noted that LTIP awards granted in a year normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and 
the projected value of LTIP amounts excludes the impact of share price movement over the vesting period. Share scheme awards 
are expected to vest for Chris Spencer and Peter Southby during 2016 in relation to two grants each under the CSOP for £10,000 as 
reported at the time. All other elements of actual pay delivered, however, will be inﬂuenced by the following factors:
Component “Minimum” “Target” “Maximum”
Fixed Base salary Latest known salary
Pension Contribution rate applied to latest known salary
Other beneﬁts Beneﬁts as provided in the single ﬁgure table on page 57
Annual bonus No bonus payable 50% 100%
LTIP No LTIP vesting 25% 100%
Approach to recruitment remuneration – Executive Directors
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the committee may make use of any or all of the existing components 
of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach Maximum value
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the individual’s 
role, responsibilities, experience and skills, relevant market data, internal relativities and 
their current basic salary. Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, 
any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of years subject to their 
development in the role.
Not applicable.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to receive a pension contribution in line with existing policy.
SIP New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Company’s HMRC approved all-employee 
share scheme, in line with the policy.
Beneﬁts New appointees will be eligible to receive beneﬁts in line with the policy.
Annual bonus The annual bonus described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the 
relevant maximum being pro-rated to reﬂect the proportion of employment over the year. 
Targets for the individual element will be tailored to the Executive.
Up to 100% 
of salary p.a.
LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP which will normally be on the 
same terms as awards made to other Executive Directors, as described in the policy table.
Up to 100% 
of salary p.a.
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the committee will take into consideration all relevant 
factors (including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that 
the pay arrangements are in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders. 
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under 
a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving 
a previous employer.
Such “buyout awards” would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited. In doing so, the committee will consider 
relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and 
the proportion of the vesting period remaining. 
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the remuneration committee will be consistent 
with the policy for external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their 
promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.  EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
54
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Approach to recruitment remuneration – Executive Directors continued
External appointments
It is the Board’s policy to allow each Executive Director to take up one non-executive position on the board of another company, 
subject to the prior approval of the Board. Any fee earned in relation to outside appointments is retained by the Executive Director. 
No such positions were taken and so no such fees were paid during the ﬁnancial year. 
Service contracts 
The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with the Group. Executive Directors’ contracts are available 
to view at the Company’s registered office. The principal terms of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are as follows:
Notice period
Executive Director Position Effective date of contract From Company From Director
Chris Spencer Chief Executive Officer 3 July 2013 Twelve months Twelve months
Peter Southby Chief Financial Officer 1 October 2012 Twelve months Twelve months
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors
The Board determines the Remuneration Policy and level of fees for the Non-executive Directors, within the limits set out in the 
articles of association. The remuneration committee recommends the Remuneration Policy and level of fees for the Chairman of the 
Board. 
The policy table below summarises the key components of remuneration for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
Element Operation Opportunity
Performance 
metrics
Fees
To reﬂect market competitive 
rates for the role, as well 
as individual performance 
and contribution.
The Chairman and Non-executive 
Directors receive a basic fee for their 
respective roles. Additional fees are 
paid to Non-executive Directors for 
additional services such as chairing 
a Board committee. 
Fees are reviewed annually with 
reference to information provided by 
remuneration surveys, the extent of the 
duties performed, time commitment, 
and the size and complexity of the 
Group. Fee levels are benchmarked 
against sector comparators and 
appropriate listed companies of 
similar size and complexity.
Fee increases are applied in line 
with the outcome of the annual 
review. Fees for the year commencing 
1 January 2016 are set out in the annual 
report on remuneration.
There is no prescribed maximum 
fee. It is expected that increases to 
Non-executive Director fee levels will 
be in line with salaried employees 
over the life of the policy. However, 
in the event that there is a material 
misalignment with the market or a 
change in the complexity, responsibility 
or time commitment required to fulﬁl a 
Non-executive Director role, the Board 
has discretion to make an appropriate 
adjustment to the fee level.
None.
Non-executive Directors' remuneration
In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-executive Director, the committee will follow the policy as set out in the table on page 53. 
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for 
additional services, such as chairing a Board committee. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
55
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Non-executive Directors’ service contracts
Letters of appointment are provided to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors. Non-executive Directors have letters of 
appointment effective for a period of three years and are subject to annual re-election at the AGM. Non-executive Directors’ letters 
of appointment are available to view at the Company’s registered office. 
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment and the unexpired period of their appointments (where appropriate after extension 
by re-election) are set out below:
Unexpired term Last
Date of ﬁrst as at Date of last re-appointment
Non-executive Director appointment 31 March 2016 appointment at AGM Notice period
Mike O’Leary 17 March 2011 11 months 17 March 2014 29 April 2015 Six months
Robin Taylor 1 March 2010 11 months 1 March 2014 29 April 2015 Six months
Kevin Boyd 9 May 2014 1 year 1 month 9 May 2014 — Six months
Andy McKeon 1 February 2013 2 years 5 months 21 September 2015 — Six months
Exit payment policy
The Company’s policy is to limit any payment made to a departing Director to contractual arrangements and to honour any 
pre-established commitments. As part of this process, the committee will take into consideration the Executive Director’s duty 
to mitigate their loss.
The table below summarises how the awards under the bonus scheme and LTIP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios 
and a change of control. Whilst the committee retains overall discretion on determining “good leaver” status, it typically deﬁnes 
a “good leaver” in circumstances such as retirement with the consent of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, 
or any other reason as the committee decides. Final treatment is subject to the committee’s discretion.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards
Annual bonus
“Good leaver” Paid at the same time as continuing employees. Eligible for an award to the extent that performance 
targets are satisﬁed and the award is pro-rated for the 
proportion of the ﬁnancial year served.
“Bad leaver” No annual bonus payable. Not applicable.
Change of control Paid immediately on the effective date of change 
of control.
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance 
targets are satisﬁed up to the change of control and the 
award is pro-rated for the proportion of the ﬁnancial 
year served to the effective date of change of control.
LTIP
“Good leaver” Continue until the normal vesting date or vest 
immediately at the discretion of the committee. 
In the event of death of a participant, the award 
would vest immediately.
Outstanding awards vest to the extent the performance 
conditions are satisﬁed and the awards are pro-rated to 
reﬂect the length of the vesting period served unless 
the Board decides otherwise. In the event of the death 
of a participant during the performance period, the 
award would vest in full.
“Bad leaver” Outstanding awards are forfeited. Not applicable.
Change of control Vest immediately on the effective date of change 
of control.
Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction 
of performance conditions as at the effective date 
of change of control, and the award is pro-rated for 
the proportion of the vesting period served to the 
effective date of change of control unless the Board 
decides otherwise. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
56
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration
The following section provides details of how the Group’s Remuneration Policy was implemented during the ﬁnancial year ending 
31 December 2015.
Remuneration committee membership in 2015
The committee met four times during the year under review. The members of the committee are:
Member Number of
Committee member throughout 2015 meetings attended
Andy McKeon
1
No 1
Robin Taylor
2
Yes 4
Mike O’Leary Yes 4
Kevin Boyd Yes 4
1 Andy McKeon was Chair of the committee from 1 January 2015 to 2 April 2015 and from 30 September 2015.
2 Robin Taylor acted as Chair of the committee from 2 April 2015 until 30 September 2015. 
During the year, the committee sought internal support from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who attended 
committee meetings by invitation from the Chairman to advise on speciﬁc questions raised by the committee and on matters 
relating to the performance and remuneration of senior managers where it was considered that their attendance would make a 
signiﬁcant contribution. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were not present for any discussions that related 
directly to their own remuneration. The Company Secretary attended each meeting as Secretary to the committee.
Independent advice
In undertaking its responsibilities, the committee seeks independent external advice as necessary. For the year under review, 
the committee continued to retain the services of Kepler Associates as the principal external advisers to the committee. When 
required, Kepler Associates provides independent advice on a wide range of remuneration matters including current market practice, 
benchmarking of Executive pay and incentive design and provides no other services to the Company. During the year 
Kepler Associates provided advice on Executive and Non-executive Director salaries. 
The committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers on a regular basis and is satisﬁed that the Kepler team provides 
independent remuneration advice to the committee and does not have any connections with the Group that may impair its independence. 
Kepler Associates is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can 
be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. A further review of advisers will be undertaken in 2016. 
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM
There was an advisory vote on the remuneration report at the AGM in 2015. The result of the vote was published on the website 
after the meeting. Of the 37,879,871 votes cast, 37,097,792 (99.62%) of the votes were for the resolution, with 140,600 (0.38%) 
against and 641,479 votes withheld. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
57
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Single total ﬁgure of remuneration for Executive Directors – audited
The table below sets out a single ﬁgure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and the prior year:
Chris Spencer Peter Southby
£’000 £’000
2015 2014 2015 2014
Base salary 312 300 225 200
Taxable beneﬁts
1
28 19 16 13
Pension
2
47 45 34 30
Annual bonus
3
—150 — 100
Share schemes
4,5
1 1 102 1
Total 388 515 377 344
1 Taxable beneﬁts consist primarily of company car and private fuel beneﬁt.
2 Pension: During the year the Executive Directors received 15% of base salary as employer contributions.
3  Annual bonus: This is the total bonus earned in respect of performance during the relevant year. Annual bonuses are received in cash. Further details of annual 
bonus awards for 2015 can be found in the report of the remuneration committee on pages 57 and 58. 
4  On 11 November 2015, Peter Southby exercised options over 27,714 ordinary shares of 1p each (“Ordinary Shares”) at a price of £7.09 per Ordinary Share under 
an existing option contract granted on 2 May 2013. 
5 The total amount shown includes the value of matching shares awarded under the SIP.
Single total ﬁgure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors – audited
The table below sets out a single ﬁgure for the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and the prior year:
Base fee
Committee 
chairmanship fees Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Mike O’Leary 80 80 — — 80 80
Robin Taylor 35 35 8 5 43 40
Andy McKeon
1
18 35 2 5 20 40
Kevin Boyd 35 23 — — 35 23
Sean Riddell
2
3 35 — — 3 35
1 Andy McKeon resigned as a Director on 2 April 2015 and was reappointed on 30 September 2015.
2 Sean Riddell resigned as a Director on 30 January 2015.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2015
Bonus
During the year ended 31 December 2015, Executive Directors were eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of salary, depending 
on the level of Group adjusted proﬁt achieved. Target performance was calibrated to deliver a bonus of 50% of maximum, with no 
payment for below threshold performance. Bonuses are paid entirely in cash and are not subject to clawback. Corporate targets set 
by the committee require Executive Directors to deliver signiﬁcant stretch performance, to achieve maximum bonus. 
Performance during the year, taking into account the impact of acquisitions and associated costs in the year, did not reach the level 
required for target performance. The remuneration committee reviewed the results and, in line with the rules, concluded that no 
bonus payments would be made for the year under review.  EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
58
Governance
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued
Bonus continued
For 2015 the targets were as follows:
• 0% of salary if the Group adjusted proﬁt was below £38.425m;
• 50% of salary if the Group adjusted proﬁt was or exceeded £38.425m; and
• If the Group adjusted proﬁt was greater than £38.425m then bonus would increase pro rata to Group adjusted proﬁt up to 
a maximum of 100% at £41.850m.
Long-term incentive awards vesting
On 11 November 2015, Peter Southby, Chief Financial Officer, exercised options over 27,714 ordinary shares of 1p each at a price 
of £7.09 per Ordinary Share under an existing option contract granted on 2 May 2013. Options were subject to TSR performance 
criteria. As a result Peter Southby subsequently acquired 27,714 Ordinary Shares at a price of £7.09 per Ordinary Share and disposed 
of 22,714 Ordinary Shares at a price of £10.75 per Ordinary Share to fund the option exercise price, tax and National Insurance 
obligations. These Ordinary Shares were acquired by JY Trustees Limited on behalf of the EMIS Group plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust. 
Scheme interests awarded in 2015
2015 long-term incentive plan 
In 2015, the following awards were granted under the long-term incentive plan:
Awards
made Market price Face value
during at date of Normal at date of
Executive Director Date of grant the year award vesting date award
Chris Spencer 28 April 2015 34,647 900.5p 28 April 2018 £312,000
Peter Southby 28 April 2015 24,986 900.5p 28 April 2018 £225,000
Performance condition for 2015 awards
EPS growth over
 performance % award 
Performance level period to vest
Below threshold Below 33.1% 0%
Base target threshold 33.1% 25%
Middle target threshold 46.3% 50%
Maximum target threshold 72.8% or higher 100%
Performance conditions – insofar as the base target threshold is exceeded the percentage of award shares vesting increases pro 
rata between the base target and the maximum target.
2015 SIP awards 
During the year under review, the Executive Directors were awarded matching shares under the SIP as a result of their own personal 
contributions in acquiring partnership shares. The value of these was less than £1,000 each. There were no performance conditions 
attached to the SIP awards. The Executive Directors participate in the SIP to the maximum extent permitted by the HMRC. 
The Company offers a one matching share for every three partnership shares purchased by employees.
Ad hoc payments 
There were no ad hoc payments to any Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Payments to past Directors
There were no payments to past Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
59
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the Group’s expenditure on shareholder distributions (including dividends) and total employee pay 
expenditure for the ﬁnancial years ending 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015.
Total employee Distributions
expenditure to shareholders
2015 £74.1m £13.3m
2014 £65.1m £11.5m
% change 14% 15%
TSR performance
26/03/10 26/03/11 26/03/12 26/03/13 26/03/14 16/03/15 14/03/16
0
350
400
450
— EMIS Group total shareholder return (since IPO)
— FTSE AIM All Share total shareholder return (rebased)
50
100
150
200
250
300
The graph above compares the value of £100 invested in EMIS Group plc shares, including re-invested dividends, with the FTSE AIM 
Index since the 26 March 2010, which is the date of admission to trading on AIM. This index was selected because it is considered to 
be the most appropriate against which the total shareholder return of the Group should be measured. 
Directors’ interests
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2015 were as follows:
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
at 31 December at 31 December
Director 2015 2014
Chris Spencer 285,369 285,369
Peter Southby 9,878 4,878
Mike O’Leary 1,000 1,000
Robin Taylor 1,800 1,800
Andy McKeon 1,626 1,626
Kevin Boyd 2,500 1,500
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2016
Base salary
The base salaries for both Executive Directors were subject to independent review in 2015. The letter from the Chairman of the 
remuneration committee on page 47 includes further detail.
Base salary from Base salary from
1 January 2015 to 1 January 2016 to Percentage
Executive Director 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 increase
Chris Spencer £312,000 £318,240 2%
Peter Southby £225,000 £250,000 11% EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
60
Governance
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2016 continued
Pension
For 2016, Executive Directors will receive a contribution of 15% of salary.
Annual bonus
The performance measure for the annual bonus for Executive Directors will be unchanged for the 2016 ﬁnancial year and will 
operate on the same basis as in 2015. The bonus outcome will be based on an adjusted proﬁt measure. Adjusted proﬁt means 
operating proﬁt as adjusted for exceptional costs, any M&A activity in the year, the effect of capitalisation and amortisation 
of development costs and the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Proposed targets have been set to be challenging relative to the 2016 business plan. As speciﬁc targets are deemed to be 
commercially sensitive they will be published retrospectively in the annual report on remuneration for 2016.
Bonus payments will continue to be delivered in cash and from 1 January 2016 are subject to the following additional conditions:
• Clawback where the remuneration committee becomes aware of any information on the basis of which it is reasonable for them 
to form the opinion that either inaccurate ﬁgures had been reported on which the bonus target had been calculated and based 
or bonus outcome calculated; or there had been misconduct; or there had been any action or omission that had resulted in 
damage to the Group’s reputation.
• The requirement to invest 40% of any net bonus payment in shares of the company until the minimum shareholding level 
relevant to the Executive Director is met. 
LTIP
For 2016, Executive Directors will be eligible to receive awards of performance shares up to 100% of salary, based on EPS growth 
over three years and vesting three years from the date of grant. Details of any awards in the 2016 ﬁnancial year will be provided 
in next year’s annual report on remuneration. 
From 1 January 2016, Executive Directors are subject to the requirement to use vested shares to add to their beneﬁcial shareholding 
until the minimum shareholding level relevant to the Executive Director is met.
SIP
Executive Directors will be able to continue to participate in the SIP on the same basis as in the 2015 ﬁnancial year.
Chairman and Non-executive Director fees
Fee levels are subject to annual review and an independent review by Kepler Associates was undertaken in 2015. Following 
consideration of the results which looked at appropriate FTSE comparators and the level of engagement of the Chairman and 
other Non-executive Directors, the Board determined that the following changes be made for 2016:
• Chairman – Increase in base fee from £80k to £85k. Committee chair fee of £5k to be paid in addition to base fee.
• Non-executive Directors – Increase in base fee from £35k to £40k plus an additional £5k committee chair fee where relevant.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
61
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
The Directors present their report and 
audited consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
This report contains certain statutory, 
regulatory and other information and 
incorporates, by reference to, certain 
disclosures included earlier in 
this document.
General information and 
principal activities
EMIS Group plc (“the Company” or 
“the parent company”) is an AIM quoted 
company. The Company is the parent of 
trading subsidiary companies (together 
“the Group”), the principal trading 
subsidiaries being Egton Medical 
Information Systems Limited (“EMIS”), 
Rx Systems Limited (“Rx Systems”), 
Ascribe Limited (“Ascribe”), Digital 
Healthcare Systems Limited (“Digital 
Healthcare”), Medical Imaging UK Limited 
(“Medical Imaging”) and MIDRSS Limited.
The Company is incorporated in England and 
Wales and domiciled in the UK. The address 
of its Registered Office is Rawdon House, 
Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY.
The principal activity of the Group is 
the design of computer software for 
healthcare professionals, mainly general 
practitioners, community pharmacists, 
secondary and specialist care providers 
and other clinicians, together with the 
hosting, provision of specialist ICT 
infrastructure and support of computer 
systems for healthcare professionals and 
other related users. Further information 
on the principal activities of the Group is 
described on pages 2 and 3.
Dividends
The Directors remain committed to 
increasing the dividend. Subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) on 26 April 2016, 
the Board proposes paying a ﬁnal 
dividend of 10.6p per ordinary share 
(2014: 9.2p) on 29 April 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 1 April 2016. This would 
make a total dividend of 21.2p per 
ordinary share for 2015 (2014: 18.4p).
Directors’ report
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company who served during 
the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: 
• Michael (Mike) O’Leary 
Chairman
• Christopher (Chris) Spencer 
Chief Executive Officer
• Peter Southby 
Chief Financial Officer
• Robin Taylor 
Senior Non-executive Director
• Kevin Boyd 
Non-executive Director
• Andrew (Andy) McKeon (Resigned 2 April 2015. 
Re-appointed 30 September 2015) 
Non-executive Director
• Sean Riddell (Resigned 30 January 2015) 
Non-executive Director
Directors are subject to annual re-election and details of 
Directors’ remuneration, service agreements and interests 
in the share capital of the Company are given in the Annual 
report on remuneration on pages 56 to 60.
Biographical details of the Directors 
are given on pages 34 and 35
P34
Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 49 to 60
P49
No Director has had any material interest in any contract 
of signiﬁcance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries 
during the year under review. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
62
Governance
Directors’ report continued
Dividends continued
A technical matter has arisen in relation 
to the ﬁnal dividends paid in respect of 
the 2012, 2013 and 2014 ﬁnancial years 
and the interim dividends paid in respect 
of the 2013, 2014 and 2015 ﬁnancial years. 
It has been brought to the Directors’ 
attention that, although the Company had 
sufficient distributable proﬁts to pay 
these dividends, the interim accounts 
showing the requisite level of 
distributable proﬁts that were prepared 
prior to such payments had inadvertently 
not been ﬁled at Companies House, as 
required by the Companies Act 2006 
(the “Act”). As a result, the dividends 
were paid in technical breach of the Act. 
However, given that the Company had 
sufficient distributable proﬁts to make the 
payment had the interim accounts been 
ﬁled at the appropriate time, the Directors 
believe that neither shareholders nor 
creditors would have been prejudiced. 
The Company nevertheless wishes 
to address the matter by way of a 
ratiﬁcation resolution to be approved 
by shareholders at the AGM. As a result 
of their interest in the subject matter, the 
Directors who are also shareholders will 
not vote on this resolution.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure 
in the year amounted to £19.6m (2014: 
£16.8m) of which £6.2m (2014: £6.5m) 
was capitalised.
Share capital
As at 15 March 2016 and 31 December 
2015, the Company had 63,311,396 
(31 December 2014: 63,311,396) ordinary 
shares of one pence each in issue. 
The shares are traded on AIM, a market 
operated by the London Stock Exchange 
plc. The rights and obligations attached 
to the shares are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association which are available 
on the Company’s website.
The Company has previously established 
an Employee Beneﬁt Trust (EBT) to hold 
shares in the Company to facilitate 
share-based emolument payments and 
the Group Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
As at 31 December 2015 the EBT held 
540,034 (2014: 636,832) ordinary shares 
of one pence each. The EBT has waived 
its right to dividends.
Details of ordinary shares under option 
in respect of the Company’s share 
schemes are shown in note 26 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
The rules of the LTIP and CSOP set out 
the consequences in the event of a 
change of control. Further information is 
given in the remuneration committee 
report on page 55.
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Articles of 
Association, in accordance with Section 
234 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
officers of the Company and its 
subsidiaries would be indemniﬁed in 
respect of proceedings which might be 
brought by a third party. No cover is 
provided for Directors and officers in 
respect of any fraudulent or dishonest 
actions. No such indemnities have been 
granted. The Company maintains 
Directors’ and officers’ liabilities insurance 
to provide appropriate cover for any legal 
action brought against its Directors.
Substantial interests in shares
As at 15 March 2016, the Company had been notiﬁed of the following substantial interests in 3% or more in its ordinary shares:
Number of % issued
shares capital 
Liontrust Investment Partners LLP 7,546,097 11.92
Standard Life Investments 6,862,186 10.84
NFU Mutual Insurance Society Ltd 3,075,203 4.86
Wasatch Advisors 3,056,217 4.83
Phillip Woodrow 2,903,251 4.59
Primestone Capital 2,900,000 4.58
Octopus Investments Nominees Ltd 2,291,659 3.62
GVQ Investment Management 2,131,085 3.37
BlackRock, Inc 1,936,815 3.06
Invesco Limited 1,898,368 3.00 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
63
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Employees
The Group’s policy is to ensure adequate 
provision for the welfare, and health and 
safety of its employees and of other 
people who may be affected by its 
activities. The Group is committed to 
ensuring there are equal opportunities for 
all employees, irrespective of age, gender, 
ethnicity, race, religion and belief, sexual 
orientation, disability, marital status and 
civil partnership. All employees are 
treated fairly and equally.
The Group encourages the involvement 
of its employees and they are made aware 
of signiﬁcant matters through regular 
updates from the Chief Executive Officer 
and divisional managing directors, roadshow 
presentations, management meetings, 
informal brieﬁngs, team meetings and the 
Company’s intranet, magazine, discussion 
forums and website. Employee involvement 
is an essential element in the development 
of the business.
The Group treats applications for 
employment from disabled persons equally 
with those of other applicants having 
regard to their ability, experience and the 
requirements of the job. Where existing 
employees become disabled, appropriate 
efforts are made to provide them with 
continuing suitable work within the Group 
and to provide retraining if necessary.
Political donations 
No political donations were made in 2015 
(2014: £nil).
Going concern
The Group’s activities and an outline of 
the developments taking place in relation 
to its products, services and marketplace 
are considered in the Strategic report on 
pages 1 to 33. The revenue, trading results 
and cash ﬂows are explained in the 
ﬁnancial review on pages 26 to 29.
Note 3 to the ﬁnancial statements sets 
out the Group’s ﬁnancial risks and the 
management of capital risks.
The Group has a term loan repayable in 
quarterly instalments of £1m until June 
2017. However, it is proﬁtable and expects 
to continue to be so. It has signiﬁcant 
cash resources, a high and continuing 
level of recurring revenue and also 
expects to continue to have high cash 
conversion for the foreseeable future.
The Directors considered the going 
concern assumption and after careful 
enquiry and review of available ﬁnancial 
information, including projections of 
proﬁtability and cash ﬂows for the two 
years to 31 December 2017, the Directors 
believe that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue to operate for the 
foreseeable future and that it is therefore 
appropriate to continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the consolidated and 
Company ﬁnancial statements.
AGM notice
The notice convening the AGM to be 
held on 26 April 2016, together with 
an explanation of the resolutions to be 
proposed at the meeting, is contained 
in a separate circular to shareholders 
and on the Company’s website at 
www.emisgroupplc.com/investors.
Auditor and statement as to disclosure 
of information to the auditor
The Directors who were in office on 
the date of approval of these ﬁnancial 
statements have conﬁrmed, as far as 
they are aware, that there is no relevant 
audit information of which the auditor 
is unaware. Each of the Directors has 
conﬁrmed that they have taken all 
reasonable steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that it has 
been communicated to the auditor.
The auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated 
its willingness to be re-appointed and, 
in accordance with Section 489 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a resolution that 
they be re-appointed will be proposed 
at the AGM.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate 
governance can be found in the corporate 
governance report on pages 36 to 42 
of this annual report and accounts. 
The corporate governance report forms 
part of this Directors’ report and is 
incorporated into it by cross-reference.
By order of the Board
Caroline Farbridge
Company Secretary
15 March 2016 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
64
Governance
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the annual report, Strategic 
report and the Directors’ report and the 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare Group and parent company 
ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial 
year. As required by the AIM Rules of the 
London Stock Exchange they are required 
to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the parent company 
ﬁnancial statements on the same basis. 
Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the ﬁnancial statements 
unless they are satisﬁed that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and parent company and 
of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In 
preparing each of the Group and parent 
company ﬁnancial statements, the 
Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained 
in the ﬁnancial statements; and 
• prepare the ﬁnancial statements 
on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the parent company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁnancial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its 
ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of ﬁnancial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
In respect of the Annual report, Strategic report, Directors’ report and the ﬁnancial statements EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
65
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of EMIS Group plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of EMIS Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 66 to 97. 
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, 
and express an opinion on, the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended; 
• the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the strategic report and the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Johnathan Pass (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants  
1 Sovereign Square 
Sovereign Street 
Leeds LS1 4DA
15 March 2016 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
66
Financial statements
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 5 155,898 137,639
Costs:
Changes in inventories (344) 119
Cost of goods and services (12,611) (12,901)
Staff costs 9 (67,465) (58,571)
Other operating expenses
1
(45,873) (21,799)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (4,665) (4,005)
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 (13,510) (11,361)
Adjusted operating proﬁt 36,553 32,639
Development costs capitalised 9, 14 6,183 6,523
Amortisation of intangible assets
2
14 (12,806) (10,914)
Impairment of goodwill 13 (16,183) —
Impairment of investment 17 (2,317) —
Release of contingent acquisition consideration 31 — 873
Operating proﬁt 6 11,430 29,121
Finance income 7 28 10
Finance costs 8 (477) (553)
Share of result of associate 17 (388) (55)
Share of result of joint venture 17 339 17
Proﬁt before taxation 10,932 28,540
Income tax expense 10 (5,558) (5,719)
Proﬁt for the year 5,374 22,821
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss
Currency translation differences (111) (86)
Other comprehensive income (111) (86)
Total comprehensive income for the year 5,263 22,735
Attributable to:
– equity holders of the parent 4,432 22,058
– non-controlling interest in subsidiary company 831 677
Total comprehensive income for the year 5,263 22,735
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent Pence Pence
Basic 11 7.2 35.3
Diluted 11 7.2 35.2
1  Including contract asset depreciation of £3,175,000 (2014: £3,761,000), goodwill impairment of £16,183,000 (2014: £nil), investment impairment of £2,317,000 
(2014: £nil) and release of contingent acquisition consideration of £nil (2014: £873,000).
2 Excluding amortisation of computer software used internally of £704,000 (2014: £447,000).
The notes on pages 70 to 97 are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
67
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 54,388 68,577 — —
Other intangible assets 14 66,995 70,820 1,801 784
Property, plant and equipment 15 22,032 24,313 — —
Investments in subsidiaries 16 — — 70,380 82,370
Investment in joint venture and associate 17 131 2,705 — —
143,546 166,415 72,181 83,154
Current assets
Inventories 18 1,206 1,550 — —
Trade and other receivables 19 33,893 28,732 3,506 4,273
Cash and cash equivalents 30 4,701 6,939 — —
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies — — 44,960 50,118
39,800 37,221 48,466 54,391
Total assets 183,346 203,636 120,647 137,545
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (17,777) (20,782) (1,049) (357)
Current tax liabilities (3,183) (1,246) — (163)
Bank loans 22, 30 (5,402) (12,902) (5,402) (12,902)
Bank overdraft 22, 30 (6,457) — (7,756) (5,202)
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies — — (28,678) (48,852)
Contingent acquisition consideration (3,000) (2,750) (3,000) (2,750)
Deferred income (28,000) (29,985) — —
(63,819) (67,665) (45,885) (70,226)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 22, 30 (1,951) (5,854) (1,951) (5,854)
Deferred tax liability 24 (10,530) (12,709) — —
Contingent acquisition consideration — (2,500) — (2,500)
(12,481) (21,063) (1,951) (8,354)
Total liabilities (76,300) (88,728) (47,836) (78,580)
NET ASSETS 107,046 114,908 72,811 58,965
EQUITY
Ordinary share capital 25 633 633 633 633
Share premium 25 51,045 51,045 51,045 51,045
Own shares held in trust (2,929) (3,718) — —
Retained earnings 52,848 60,109 18,914 5,068
Other reserve 2,000 2,111 2,219 2,219
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 103,597 110,180 72,811 58,965
Non-controlling interests 3,449 4,728 — —
TOTAL EQUITY 107,046 114,908 72,811 58,965
The notes on pages 70 to 97 are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 66 to 97 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 15 March 2016 
and are signed on its behalf by:
Chris Spencer  Peter Southby
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Group and parent company balance sheets
as at 31 December 2015 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
68
Financial statements
Group and parent company statements of cash ﬂows
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash generated from operations 29 42,711 44,856 (996) (1,001)
Finance costs (450) (455) (443) (456)
Finance income 28 10 — —
Tax paid (6,896) (5,247) 197 580
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 35,393 39,164 (1,242) (877)
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6,145) (6,873) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 644 291 — —
Development costs capitalised (6,183) (6,523) — —
Purchase of software (1,730) (1,765) (1,017) (784)
(Decrease)/increase in loan from subsidiary company — — (14,332) 6,638
Dividends received — — 42,890 15,000
Business combinations (5,231) (10,250) (5,715) (9,000)
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (18,645) (25,120) 21,826 11,854
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Decrease/(increase) in loan to Employee Beneﬁt Trust — — 784 (1,829)
Transactions in own shares held in trust 589 (1,480) — —
Bank loan repayments (11,500) (7,000) (11,500) (7,000)
Bank loans drawn down — 8,000 — 8,000
Non-controlling interest dividend paid (2,110) — — —
Dividends paid (12,422) (10,792) (12,422) (10,792)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (25,443) (11,272) (23,138) (11,621)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (8,695) 2,772 (2,554) (644)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6,939 4,167 (5,202) (4,558)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 30 (1,756) 6,939 (7,756) (5,202)
Group cash and cash equivalents of £1,756,000 comprise cash of £4,701,000 and a bank overdraft of £6,457,000.
The notes on pages 70 to 97 are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
69
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Group and parent company statements of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Non-
Share Share Own shares Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium held in trust earnings reserve interest equity
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 633 51,045 (2,325) 48,522 2,197 4,051 104,123
Proﬁt for the year — — — 22,144 — 677 22,821
Transactions with owners 
Share acquisitions less sales — — (1,393) (87) — — (1,480)
Share-based payments ——— 270—— 270
Deferred tax in relation to share-based payments — — — 52 — — 52
Dividends paid (note 12) — — — (10,792) — — (10,792)
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences ———— (86) — (86)
At 31 December 2014 633 51,045 (3,718) 60,109 2,111 4,728 114,908
Proﬁt for the year — — — 4,543 — 831 5,374
Transactions with owners 
Share acquisitions less sales — — 789 (200) — — 589
Share-based payments — — — 684 — — 684
Deferred tax in relation to share-based payments — — — 134 — — 134
Dividends paid (note 12) — — — (12,422) — (2,110) (14,532)
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences ———— (111) — (111)
At 31 December 2015 633 51,045 (2,929) 52,848 2,000 3,449 107,046
Share Share Retained Other Total
capital premium earnings reserve equity
Company
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 633 51,045 466 2,219 54,363
Proﬁt for the year — — 15,211 — 15,211
Transactions with owners
Share acquisitions less sales — — (87) — (87)
Share-based payments — — 270 — 270
Dividends paid (note 12) — — (10,792) — (10,792)
At 31 December 2014 633 51,045 5,068 2,219 58,965
Proﬁt for the year — — 25,784 — 25,784
Transactions with owners
Share acquisitions less sales — — (200) — (200)
Share-based payments — — 684 — 684
Dividends paid (note 12) — — (12,422) — (12,422)
At 31 December 2015 633 51,045 18,914 2,219 72,811
The notes on pages 70 to 97 are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
70
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been applied consistently to all periods presented.
1.1 Basis of preparation
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For the Group statement of comprehensive income, in addition to the results presented in accordance with IFRS, the Board has also 
disclosed information on what it regards as the underlying performance of the business. This presentation reﬂects the information 
which the Board uses to determine performance when making operating and strategic decisions for the business.
The Group is proﬁtable and it is anticipated that this will continue. There is a high and continuing level of recurring revenue and high 
cash conversion is anticipated for the foreseeable future. The Group’s existing signiﬁcant cash resources provide additional comfort 
that it will continue to be able to meet its bank term loan obligations of £1m per quarter.
After careful enquiry and review of available ﬁnancial information, including projections of proﬁtability and cash ﬂows, the Directors 
believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the consolidated and Company ﬁnancial statements.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and of revenues and expenses. It also requires management 
to exercise its judgement in the application of accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions and estimates are signiﬁcant to the Company or Group ﬁnancial statements are disclosed in note 2.
The ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling, which is also the functional currency of the parent company. The ﬁnancial 
statements are presented in round thousands.
1.2 Parent company statement of comprehensive income
As permitted by Section 408 Companies Act 2006, the parent company has not presented its own statement of comprehensive 
income. The proﬁt of the parent company for the year was £25,784,000 (2014: £15,211,000).
1.3 Changes in accounting policy and disclosure
a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments for the ﬁrst time. Unless otherwise stated, they have not had 
a material impact on the ﬁnancial statements:
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle.
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2011-2013 Cycle.
b) Adopted IFRS not yet applied 
The following Adopted IFRSs have been issued but have not been applied by the Group in these ﬁnancial statements. Their adoption 
is not expected to have a material effect on the ﬁnancial statements unless otherwise indicated:
• Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clariﬁcation of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IAS 27: Equity method in separate ﬁnancial statements (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016). EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
71
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
1.3 Changes in accounting policy and disclosure continued
b) Adopted IFRS not yet applied continued
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Annual improvement cycles 2012-2014 (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure initiative (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2016).
• Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure initiative (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2017).
• Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2017).
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2018). This standard will determine a new framework for 
the measurement of ﬁnancial instruments. The Group is currently considering the impact of this standard.
• IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2018). This standard may affect the 
accounting for certain contracts and will impose greater disclosure requirements on all companies. The Group is currently 
considering the impact of this standard.
• IFRS 16 Leases (mandatory for year ending 31 December 2019). The standard fundamentally changes the accounting for leases 
by lessees. It eliminates the current IAS 17 dual accounting model, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet ﬁnance leases 
and off-balance sheet operating leases and, instead, introduces a single, on-balance sheet accounting model that is similar 
to current ﬁnance lease accounting. The Group is currently considering the impact of this standard.
1.4 Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate those of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December 2015. 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities that the Company has power over, exposure or rights to variable returns and an ability to use its power to 
affect those returns. The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity 
interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identiﬁable assets acquired and 
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition 
date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of 
the separable identiﬁable net assets acquired and liabilities incurred or assumed at the acquisition date is recorded as purchased 
goodwill. Provision is made for any impairment. Accounting policies previously applied by acquired subsidiaries are changed as 
necessary to comply with accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated 
on consolidation. 
In the parent company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost and are tested for impairment when there 
is objective evidence of impairment. Any such impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the period they occur. 
The EMIS Group plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust is treated as a separate legal entity within the Group consolidation. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
72
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
1.4 Basis of consolidation continued
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but not control or joint control, 
through participation in ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions. 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake economic activities that are subject 
to “joint control”, which means that the strategic ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions relating to the relevant activities require 
the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are recognised in the Group ﬁnancial statements using the equity method of 
accounting and initially carried in the balance sheet at cost. The carrying value of investments (including any goodwill) is tested 
for impairment when there is objective evidence of impairment and is stated net of any impairment loss. The Group’s share of 
post-acquisition proﬁts or losses is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income and its share of post-acquisition 
movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. Unrealised gains and losses on Group transactions with the associates are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.
1.5 Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. 
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating and 
geographical segments, has been identiﬁed as the parent company Board of Directors. 
1.6 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the right to the consideration received or receivable for goods sold and services provided 
in the normal course of business during the year. Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount can be reliably measured and when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts 
will ﬂow to the entity and when speciﬁc criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities, as described below:
• Revenue from licences, maintenance & software support and other support services is recognised on a straight line basis over 
the period of supply. Licence fees that form part of long-term software installation contracts (principally within the Secondary 
& Specialist Care segment) are spread over the implementation phase of these contracts (in line with the period over which the 
service is provided) according to the hours worked on the implementation, to best represent the period over which the vendor 
obligations are satisﬁed. Secondary & Specialist Care service contract revenues are recognised as delivered over the period 
of supply.
• Revenue from hosting services, principally under the General Practitioner Systems of Choice (GPSoC) framework, is recognised 
as follows:
–  Provision of infrastructure and hardware – over the period that the service is provided, in line with the anticipated life of the 
related assets as capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
– Other services are recognised over the period of supply or when delivered as appropriate. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
73
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
1.6 Revenue recognition continued
• Revenue from hardware sales is recognised when ownership passes.
• Revenue from training, consultancy and system implementations is recognised when delivery to a customer has occurred 
with no signiﬁcant vendor obligations remaining and where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable. 
In instances where a signiﬁcant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has been satisﬁed. 
For long-term software installation contracts (principally within the Secondary & Specialist Care segment), revenue is recognised 
according to the stage of completion.
Invoices raised in advance of the provision of services to customers are recorded on the balance sheet as deferred income, 
within current liabilities.
Where Group recognition criteria have been met but no invoice to the customer has been raised at the reporting date, 
revenue is recognised and included as an accrued income, within trade and other receivables.
1.7 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary compared with the fair value at the date of acquisition 
of the identiﬁable net assets acquired. Goodwill does not have a ﬁnite life and is not subject to amortisation. It is reviewed annually 
for impairment and whenever there is an indication that there may be impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are 
expected to beneﬁt from the business combination and which represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill 
is monitored for internal management purposes.
(b) Computer software developed for external sale
Expenditure on software development is capitalised as an intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, 
‘Intangible Assets’, requiring it to be probable that the expenditure will generate future economic beneﬁts and can be measured 
reliably. To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of completing 
the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale. 
The costs incurred in the development stage for substantially new or enhanced products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria 
and considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those criteria. These costs are generally incurred in developing the 
detailed product design, software conﬁguration and interfaces, in the coding of software, in its integration with hardware, and 
in its testing.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental improvements in existing products, remedial work and other maintenance 
activity does not qualify for recognition as an intangible asset.
Where a product is technically feasible, production and sales are intended, a market exists, and sufficient resources are 
available to complete the project, development costs (only direct employee costs) are capitalised and subsequently amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, reﬂecting the pattern of the expected future economic beneﬁts. Where these 
conditions are not met, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The estimated useful 
life for development expenditure is between four and eight years, based on the anticipated conditions in the market from which 
economic beneﬁts are expected to be derived for each unique software product.
Development expenditure is capitalised in accordance with the criteria of IAS 38, and for this reason is not regarded as a realised loss.
(c) Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value. Other intangible assets are initially 
recognised at cost. Intangible assets are subsequently stated at this value less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
74
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
1.7 Intangible assets continued
(c) Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life 
of the asset, as shown below:
Computer software used internally     4–6 years
Computer software acquired on business combinations 4–8 years
Customer relationships      10–15 years
1.8 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment acquired with subsidiary companies are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition. Other 
additions are recognised at purchase cost. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land 
to write assets down to their residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at the following annual rates:
Freehold property      2%
Leasehold property     Life of lease
Computer equipment     25%–33% 
Fixtures, ﬁttings and equipment    25%
Motor vehicles      20%
1.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each year end, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset, or its cash-generating unit, exceeds the asset’s 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised as an expense. 
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inﬂows, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
1.10 Taxation
The taxation expense charged in the Group statement of comprehensive income represents the sum of the current tax expense 
and the deferred tax expense.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from accounting proﬁt as reported in the 
Group statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group liability for current tax is measured using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities 
in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction which affects neither the taxable proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
75
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
1.10 Taxation continued
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is 
settled based upon tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited in the Group statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, 
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities 
and the deferred tax relates to income tax levied by the same tax authorities on either: 
• the same taxable entity; or
• different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise and settle them 
simultaneously in each future period when the signiﬁcant deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realised or settled.
1.11 Leasing
Operating lease annual rentals are charged in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term 
of each lease.
1.12 Share-based payments 
The Group operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees. The cost of equity-settled share-based payments 
is measured at fair value at the date of grant, excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The cost is recognised 
in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with the corresponding amount 
credited to equity, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. The estimate of the level of vesting is 
reviewed annually and the charge is adjusted accordingly in respect of non-market based vesting conditions. The fair values are 
measured using the Black Scholes and Monte Carlo models.
1.13 Retirement beneﬁt costs 
The costs charged in the ﬁnancial statements represent contributions payable by the Group during the period into publicly or 
privately administered deﬁned contribution pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no 
further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. Differences between contributions payable in the period 
and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
1.14 Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date 
are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
to the Group’s presentational currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses 
of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are taken directly 
to the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation 
reserve is reclassiﬁed to the statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
1.15 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is based upon estimated selling price less 
further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
76
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
1.16 Own shares held in trust
The shares in the Company held by The EMIS Group plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust are treated as treasury shares, stated at weighted 
average cost and presented as a reduction of shareholders’ equity (see note 25). Gains and losses on transactions in the Company’s 
own shares are taken directly to equity. 
1.17 Financial Instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
(a) Financial assets
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold and services provided in the ordinary course of business. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when the carrying value 
of the receivable exceeds the present value of the future cash ﬂows discounted using the original effective interest rate.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recorded at cost in the Company balance sheet. They are tested 
for impairment when there is objective evidence of impairment. Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement 
in the period they occur.
Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and at bank, and bank overdrafts. 
There are no bank deposits with maturity dates of more than one month.
(b) Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classiﬁed as current liabilities if payment is due within one year. Trade payables are recognised 
initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, where this is different 
to the initial recognition value.
Bank borrowings
Bank loans are recorded initially at their fair value, net of issue costs. Issue costs are charged to the Group statement 
of comprehensive income over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount. Such instruments 
are subsequently carried at their amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received.
1.18 Dividends 
Interim dividends are recognised as distributions in the accounts when paid. Final dividends are recognised in the accounts 
in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Accounting estimates and judgements are made and continually evaluated based on past experience together with expectations 
relating to future events that are believed to be reasonable at the present time. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making 
these estimates and judgements, actual outcomes could be different. The critical estimates, assumptions and judgements made 
in arriving at the amounts recognised in the Group ﬁnancial statements that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are as follows: EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
77
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued
Carrying amount of goodwill, intangible assets acquired, and investments
The carrying amounts of goodwill, intangible assets acquired, and investments are reviewed for impairment at least annually and 
are assessed against the net present value of projected cash ﬂows for each cash-generating unit (CGU). Cash ﬂows are discounted 
using an adjusted weighted average cost of capital for each CGU. Judgements are made in calculating the value in use, and ongoing 
appropriateness, of the CGUs.
Revenue recognition
The key area of judgement in respect of recognising revenue is the timing of recognition, speciﬁcally in relation to deferral 
of revenues that are invoiced and paid in advance of services being provided. 
Development costs 
The key areas of judgement are in determining whether the expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation and the useful life 
over which this expenditure is amortised. Expenditure is only capitalised if it meets the criteria set out in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’, 
details are set out in note 1.7.(b). Useful lives are based on management estimates of the period over which assets are expected 
to generate revenue. These estimates are reviewed periodically for continued appropriateness. Changes to estimates can result 
in variations in carrying values and amounts charged to the Group statement of comprehensive income from period to period.
3. Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to ﬁnancial risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and price risk. The Group 
manages these risks through an effective risk management programme that seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on 
the Group’s performance.
Exposure to ﬁnancial risks is monitored by the ﬁnance team under policies approved by the Board. An assessment of the risks is 
provided to the Board at regular intervals and is discussed to ensure that the risk mitigation procedures are compliant with Group 
policy and that any new risks are appropriately managed.
Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables, which are stated net of allowances for any estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. However, this risk is mitigated by payment being received in advance for a signiﬁcant proportion 
of goods and services provided.
There is some concentration of risk, as the Group trades extensively with various parties within the National Health Service. 
However, the Group has longstanding relationships with its large number of end users and in addition to the normal credit 
management processes, the nature of these relationships assist management in controlling its credit risk.
Credit risk also arises on cash and cash equivalents placed with the Group’s banks. The Group monitors the ﬁnancial standing 
of any institution with which it deposits cash.
Liquidity risk
Management controls and monitors the Group’s cash ﬂow on a regular basis, including forecasting future cash ﬂows, to ensure 
that it has sufficient ﬁnancial resources to meet the obligations of the Group as they fall due. 
A detailed analysis of Group debt together with the maturity proﬁle is disclosed in notes 22 and 23.
Interest rate risk
The Company has exposure to interest rate risk in relation to its bank debt amounting of £7.4m and bank overdraft of £6.5m. 
Details of the interest rates and repayment terms are disclosed in note 22. The Group’s cash generation is sufficient to enable 
it to pay down the bank debt rapidly in the event of any signiﬁcant adverse movement in interest rates.
The Group’s current assets include cash and cash equivalents at the year end amounting to £4.7m, on which interest received 
is subject to ﬂuctuations in market rates. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
78
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
3. Financial risk management continued
3.1 Financial risk factors continued
Price risk
As a signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s revenues are secured under framework agreements or other long-term contracts, it has only 
limited exposure to price risk other than at the point of renegotiation of these frameworks or contracts. Where these negotiations are 
material, the Group, including the Board, is fully engaged with the process in order to secure the best possible outcome.
3.2 Capital risk management 
The Group deﬁnes the capital that it manages as the Group’s total equity, including non-controlling interests.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
• to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to investors 
and beneﬁts for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structure to reduce the cost of capital;
• to provide an adequate return to shareholders based on the level of risk undertaken;
• to have ﬁnancial resources available to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future beneﬁts and returns 
to shareholders and other stakeholders; and
• to maintain ﬁnancial resources sufficient to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group is proﬁtable and has high cash conversion and a low level of indebtedness. As a result, capital risk is not signiﬁcant for 
the Group and measurement of capital management is not a tool currently used in the internal management reporting procedures 
of the Group.
The Group’s reserves include:
Own shares held in trust – an Employee Beneﬁt Trust holds shares in the Company to facilitate share-based emolument payments 
and the Group’s Share Incentive Plan.
Other reserve – comprises a translation reserve of foreign exchange differences from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements 
of overseas operations and other reserves related to merger reliefs taken under UK law.
4. Operating segments
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ provides for segmental information disclosure on the basis of information reported internally to the 
chief operating decision-maker for decision-making purposes. The Group considers that this role is performed by the main Board.
The Group has three operating segments, all involved with the supply and support of connected healthcare software and services:
(a) Primary & Community Care;
(b) Community Pharmacy; and
(c) Secondary & Specialist Care.
Each operating segment is assessed by the Board based on a measure of adjusted operating proﬁt. This measurement basis 
excludes exceptional items, the effect of capitalisation and amortisation of development costs, and the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets as the Board considers this to provide the best measure of underlying performance. Group operating expenses, 
ﬁnance income and costs, cash and cash equivalents and bank loans and overdrafts are not allocated to segments, as Group and 
ﬁnancing activities are not segment-speciﬁc. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
79
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
4. Operating segments continued
Segmental information
2015 2014
Primary & Secondary & Primary & Secondary &
Community Community Specialist Community Community Specialist
Care Pharmacy Care Total Care Pharmacy Care Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segmental result
Revenue 93,860 20,013 42,025 155,898 89,708 18,386 29,545 137,639
Segmental operating proﬁt 
as reported internally 29,603 4,248 4,182 38,033 26,450 3,853 3,430 33,733
Development costs capitalised 3,031 1,017 2,135 6,183 3,978 784 1,761 6,523
Amortisation of development costs (5,396) — (901) (6,297) (4,248) — (397) (4,645)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (923) (577) (5,009) (6,509) (1,110) (736) (4,423) (6,269)
Segmental operating proﬁt 26,315 4,688 407 31,410 25,070 3,901 371 29,342
Group operating expenses   (1,480)   (1,094)
Impairment of goodwill   (16,183)    —
Impairment of investment   (2,317)    —
Release of contingent acquisition consideration   —   873
Operating proﬁt 11,430 29,121
Net ﬁnance costs (449) (543)
Share of result of associate (388) (55)
Share of result of joint venture 339 17
Proﬁt before taxation 10,932 28,540
Segmental assets and liabilities
Segmental assets as reported internally 36,036 4,469 16,254 56,759 38,046 4,145 12,249 54,440
Goodwill and other intangible assets 49,307 11,223 60,853 121,383 43,800 10,798 84,799 139,397
 85,343 15,692 77,107 178,142 81,846 14,943 97,048 193,837
Group assets 372 155
Investment in joint venture and associates 131 2,705
Group cash and cash equivalents 4,701 6,939
Total assets 183,346 203,636
Segmental liabilities as reported internally (30,739) (7,476) (20,011) (58,226) (38,101) (6,872) (19,230) (64,203)
Group liabilities (4,264) (5,769)
Group bank loans and overdraft (13,810) (18,756)
Total liabilities (76,300) (88,728)
Other segmental information
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 3,409 180 2,556 6,145 5,353 334 1,186 6,873
Depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment 6,749 137 954 7,840 7,165 168 433 7,766
Purchase of computer software used 
internally 1,730 — — 1,730 1,765 — — 1,765
Amortisation of computer software used 
internally 687 17 — 704 430 17 — 447 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
80
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
4. Operating segments continued
Segmental information continued
Revenue excludes intra-Group transactions on normal commercial terms from the Primary & Community Care segment to the 
Community Pharmacy segment totalling £3,750,000 (2014: £3,692,000), from the Primary & Community Care segment to the 
Secondary & Specialist Care segment totalling £883,000 (2014: £456,000), and from the Secondary & Specialist Care segment 
to the Primary & Community Care segment totalling £33,000 (2014: £69,000).
Revenue of £112,786,000 (2014: £98,939,000) is derived from the NHS and related bodies.
Revenue of £6,942,000 (2014: £5,421,000) is derived from customers outside the United Kingdom. Non-current assets held outside 
the UK total £235,000 (2014: £21,000).
5. Revenue
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Licences 50,300 43,850
Maintenance and software support 37,887 33,438
Other support services 30,611 21,568
Training, consultancy and implementation 16,128 16,918
Hosting 13,075 13,968
Hardware 7,897 7,897
155,898 137,639
6. Operating proﬁt
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
The following have been included in arriving at operating proﬁt:
Research and development expenditure 19,561 16,750
Development expenditure capitalised
– software for external sale (6,183) (6,523)
– software used internally (472) —
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
– depreciation of owned assets 7,840 7,766
Amortisation of intangible assets
– computer software used internally 704 447
– computer software developed for external sale 6,297 4,645
– arising on business combinations 6,509 6,269
Impairment of goodwill (note 13) 16,183 —
Impairment of investment (note 16) 2,317 —
Operating lease rentals
– land and buildings 1,241 644
– plant, equipment, and motor vehicles 783 31
The total research and development cost shown above of £19,561,000 (2014: £16,750,000) consists of the direct salary and national 
insurance costs of relevant staff. Software development costs amounting to £6,655,000 (2014: £6,523,000) have been capitalised 
in accordance with the criteria set out in IAS 38. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
81
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
6. Operating proﬁt continued
Total fees payable by the Group during the year to KPMG LLP in respect of the audit and other services provided were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Audit of these ﬁnancial statements 25 25
Amounts payable to the Company’s auditor and associated companies in respect of:
– Audit of the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 115 109
– Tax compliance services 46 42
– Other tax advisory services 34 48
– Forensic advisory 75 —
– All other services 21 18
316 242
7. Finance income
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Bank interest 28 10
28 10
8. Finance costs
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Bank loan interest 380 455
Amortisation of bank loan issue costs 97 98
477 553
9. Employees
The average monthly number of people (including Directors) employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
2015 2014
Number Number
– management and administration 180 134
– software support and development 913 878
– sales, maintenance and training 493 504
– others 277 95
1,863 1,611 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
82
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
9. Employees continued
Staff costs for above people:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
– wages and salaries 63,977 57,105
– social security costs 6,620 5,833
– pension costs – deﬁned contribution plans 2,402 1,828
– share incentive plan (note 26) 437 58
– share option expense (note 26) 684 270
74,120 65,094
Dealt with as follows:
– charged in Group statement of comprehensive income 67,465 58,571
– capitalised in the development of software for external sale 6,183 6,523
– capitalised in respect of computer software used internally 472 —
74,120 65,094
10. Income tax expense
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Income tax:
– current year tax charge 7,943 6,002
– adjustment in respect of prior years — (225)
Total current tax 7,943 5,777
Deferred tax:
– current year (2,385) (58)
Total deferred tax (2,385) (58)
Total tax charge in Group statement of comprehensive income 5,558 5,719
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
Proﬁt before taxation 10,932 28,540
Taxation at the average UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 2,214 6,136
Tax effects of:
– expenses not allowable in determining taxable proﬁt 3,724 61
– income not taxable in determining taxable proﬁt — (188)
– adjustment in respect of prior years — (225)
– other permanent items 2 (73)
– joint venture/associate reported net of tax — 8
– deferred tax rate change (382) —
Tax charge for the year 5,558 5,719
The main rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 21% to 20% on 1 April 2015 and will reduce to 19% from 1 April 2017, and to 18% 
from 1 April 2020. The impact of this on the deferred tax balances of the Group has been included in the current year tax charge. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
83
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
11. Earnings per share (EPS)
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following earnings and numbers of shares:
2015 2014
Earnings £’000 £’000
Basic earnings attributable to equity holders 4,543 22,144
Impairment of goodwill 16,183 —
Impairment of investment 2,317 —
Release of contingent acquisition consideration — (873)
Development costs capitalised (6,183) (6,523)
Amortisation of development costs and acquired intangible assets 12,806 10,914
Tax and non-controlling interest effect of above items (1,266) (870)
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders 28,400 24,792
2015 2014
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares ’000 ’000
Total shares in issue 63,311 63,311
Shares held by Employee Beneﬁt Trust (576) (557)
For basic EPS calculations 62,735 62,754
Effect of potentially dilutive share options 230 187
For diluted EPS calculations 62,965 62,941
2015 2014
Earnings per share Pence Pence
Basic 7.2 35.3
Adjusted 45.3 39.5
Basic diluted 7.2 35.2
Adjusted diluted 45.1 39.4
12. Dividends
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Final dividend for the year to 31 December 2013 of 8.0p — 5,030
Interim dividend for the year to 31 December 2014 of 9.2p — 5,762
Final dividend for the year to 31 December 2014 of 9.2p 5,771 —
Interim dividend for the year to 31 December 2015 of 10.6p 6,651 —
12,422 10,792
A ﬁnal dividend for the year to 31 December 2015 of 10.6p amounting to approximately £6,655,000 will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016. If approved, this dividend will be paid on 29 April 2016 to shareholders on the register 
on 1 April 2016. The dividend is not accounted for as a liability in these ﬁnancial statements and will be accounted for as an 
appropriation of distributable reserves in the year to 31 December 2016.  EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
84
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
13. Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) as follows:
Primary &
Community Community Secondary Specialist Total
Care Pharmacy Care Care Group
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 15,853 6,756 34,185 2,470 59,264
Acquisition of businesses — — 3,205 6,108 9,313
At 31 December 2014 15,853 6,756 37,390 8,578 68,577
Acquisition of businesses (note 31) 1,967 — — — 1,967
Reallocation of goodwill 3,473 — (3,473) — —
Measurement period adjustment — — — 27 27
At 31 December 2015 21,293 6,756 33,917 8,605 70,571
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 ———— —
Impairment of goodwill — — (16,183) — (16,183)
At 31 December 2015 — — (16,183) — (16,183)
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 21,293 6,756 17,734 8,605 54,388
At 31 December 2014 15,853 6,756 37,390 8,578 68,577
At 1 January 2014 15,853 6,756 34,185 2,470 59,264
Impairment tests for goodwill
Each allocation is tested annually for impairment and, to conﬁrm whether an impairment of the goodwill is necessary, management 
has compared the carrying value to the value in use.
The value in use for each allocation of the existing goodwill has been calculated using internal Group budgets for the year ending  
31 December 2016 to forecast pre-tax cash ﬂows from each CGU (with the key budget assumptions being in relation to revenue 
growth). These cash ﬂows have then been extrapolated for a further four years assuming average annual growth rates of 3.5% for 
all CGUs (2014: 3.5%) until 31 December 2020 and then 1% for all CGUs in perpetuity (2014: 1%). The pre-tax cash ﬂows have been 
discounted back to 31 December 2015 using a discount rate of 9.1% in relation to Primary & Community Care (2014: 9.1%), and 10.1% 
for all other CGUs (2014: 10.1%). 
As a result of this exercise a £16,183,000 impairment of goodwill within the Secondary Care CGU has been recognised, reﬂecting 
the fact that the business has not yet delivered the ﬁnancial returns expected when it joined the Group in 2013. The recoverable 
amount of the Secondary Care CGU assessed under the value in use method is £48,757,000. The exercise has conﬁrmed that there 
has been no impairment in any other CGU. 
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions which indicated that, with the exception of the Secondary Care 
CGU, no reasonably possible change to key assumptions would cause an impairment. An impairment would not be recognised 
outside of the Secondary Care CGU if annual growth rates, and growth into perpetuity were reduced to zero, or if discount rates 
were increased to 18%. 
A 1% increase in the Secondary Care CGU discount rate would reduce the value in use by £4,891,000, and a 1% reduction in both 
the annual growth rate and the perpetuity growth rate would reduce the value in use by £4,376,000.
Management has determined the discount rates for each CGU by considering the speciﬁc risks relating to the relevant segment. 
Growth rates beyond the budget period are determined based on a prudent assessment of long term growth rates.
Reallocation of goodwill
During the year there has been a reallocation of goodwill from the Secondary Care CGU to the Primary & Community Care CGU 
reﬂecting the transfer of the ePEX mental health solution between these CGUs. Goodwill of £3,473,000 attributable to the ePEX 
solution has been transferred. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
85
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
14. Other intangible assets
Computer
Computer Computer software
software software acquired on
used developed for business Customer
internally external sale combinations relationships Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 1,045 22,137 34,124 29,517 86,823
Additions 1,765 6,523 — — 8,288
Acquisition of businesses — — 1,093 5,596 6,689
At 31 December 2014 2,810 28,660 35,217 35,113 101,800
Additions 1,730 6,183 — — 7,913
Acquisition of businesses (note 31) — — 844 928 1,772
At 31 December 2015 4,540 34,843 36,061 36,041 111,485
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 218 2,655 9,258 7,488 19,619
Charged in year 447 4,645 3,744 2,525 11,361
At 31 December 2014 665 7,300 13,002 10,013 30,980
Charged in year 704 6,297 3,469 3,040 13,510
At 31 December 2015 1,369 13,597 16,471 13,053 44,490
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 3,171 21,246 19,590 22,988 66,995
At 31 December 2014 2,145 21,360 22,215 25,100 70,820
At 1 January 2014 827 19,482 24,866 22,029 67,204
The accounting policy for intangible assets is set out in note 1.7. The remaining average amortisation period for software developed 
for external sale is three years (2014: four years). At 31 December 2015 software acquired on business combinations had a 
remaining amortisation period of six years for both Ascribe and Digital Healthcare, and four years for Indigo 4 Systems (part of 
the Secondary Care CGU). The amortisation period for software acquired during the year with PinBellCom Group Limited (part 
of the Primary & Community Care CGU) is ﬁve years. Customer relationships have a remaining amortisation period of eight years 
(2014: nine years) for Primary & Community Care, ﬁve years (2014: six years) for Community Pharmacy, eight years for both Ascribe 
and Digital Healthcare, and nine years for both Indigo 4 Systems and Medical Imaging. The amortisation period for customer 
relationships acquired during the year with PinBellCom Group Limited is ten years.
Company intangible assets comprise computer software developed for external sale with a cost of £1,801,000 (2014: £784,000, 
2013: £nil), and accumulated amortisation of £nil (2014: £nil, 2013: £nil). No amortisation has been charged to date as the asset 
is not yet ready for use.
Reallocation of other intangible assets
During the year there has been a reallocation of computer software acquired on business combinations and customer relationships 
from the Secondary Care CGU to the Primary & Community Care CGU reﬂecting the transfer of the ePEX mental health solution 
between these CGUs. Computer software acquired on business combinations with a cost of £2,165,000 and a net book value 
of £1,545,000 and customer relationships with a cost of £908,000 and a net book value of £700,000 attributable to the ePEX 
solution have been transferred. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
86
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
15. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures.
Land and Computer ﬁttings and Motor
buildings equipment equipment vehicles Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 8,536 26,924 2,447 5,088 42,995
Additions 1,140 3,980 650 1,103 6,873
Acquisition of businesses 22 136 455 146 759
Disposals — (3) — (1,043) (1,046)
At 31 December 2014 9,698 31,037 3,552 5,294 49,581
Additions 1,715 2,916 1,376 138 6,145
Acquisition of businesses (note 31) — 11 — — 11
Disposals (186) (111) (27) (1,893) (2,217)
Exchange differences — 3 — — 3
At 31 December 2015 11,227 33,856 4,901 3,539 53,523
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 775 14,497 1,127 1,986 18,385
Charged in year 299 5,860 405 1,202 7,766
On disposals — — — (883) (883)
At 31 December 2014 1,074 20,357 1,532 2,305 25,268
Charged in year 266 5,998 517 1,059 7,840
On disposals (116) (16) (8) (1,477) (1,617)
At 31 December 2015 1,224 26,339 2,041 1,887 31,491
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 10,003 7,517 2,860 1,652 22,032
At 31 December 2014 8,624 10,680 2,020 2,989 24,313
At 1 January 2014 7,761 12,427 1,320 3,102 24,610
Included within property, plant and equipment are contract assets allocated to the data centre hosting services contract (see note 
1.6 for further details) with an original cost of £18,795,000 (2014: £18,317,000) and accumulated depreciation of £16,826,000 
(2014: £13,651,000). Depreciation of £3,175,000 (2014: £3,761,000) has been included in other operating expenses in the year. 
The net book value of these assets amounts to £1,969,000 (2014: £4,666,000). 
16. Investments in subsidiaries
Company £’000
As at 1 January 2014 70,370
Acquisition of businesses 12,000
As at 31 December 2014 82,370
Acquisition of businesses (note 31) 3,464
Investment in subsidiary undertaking 1
Capital contribution 1,748
Impairment (17,203)
As at 31 December 2015 70,380
On 10 August 2015 EMIS Health India Private Limited was incorporated. 90% of the share capital was acquired by the Company at a 
cost of £1,000, with the remaining share capital acquired by Egton Medical Information Systems Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
87
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
16. Investments in subsidiaries continued
During the year the Company received a dividend in kind from Ascribe Group Limited in relation to the intangible assets associated 
with the ePEX mental health solution, with a fair value of £1,748,000. Following this, the Company made a capital contribution to 
Egton Medical Information Systems Limited with a fair value of £1,748,000, reﬂecting the transfer of the ePEX solution, this has resulted 
in an increase in the cost of investment in Egton Medical information Systems Limited of £1,748,000.
The Company’s investment in Ascribe Group Limited was impaired by £1,748,000 following the transactions described above. A further 
impairment of £15,455,000 was also taken in the Company in relation to the investment in Ascribe Group Limited, resulting in a total 
impairment in the year of £17,203,000 writing down the cost of investment to £nil, following a review of future cash ﬂows against the 
carrying value of the investment. 
The undertakings whose results or ﬁnancial position are consolidated within the Group ﬁnancial statements at 31 December 2015 
are as follows:
% of issued
Country of ordinary
incorporation shares held
21C.IT Limited^ England 100
Arkive Computing Limiited^ England 100
ASC Computer Software (NZ) Limited New Zealand 100
ASC Computer Software Limited (Malaysia)^ Malaysia 100
ASC Computer Software PTY Limited Australia 100
Ascribe Group Limited England 100*
Ascribe Holdings Limited England 100
Ascribe Limited England 100
Ascribe Limited (Kenya) Kenya 100
Barwick Systems Limited^ England 100
CBD-E Limited England 100
Digital Healthcare Inc. USA 100
Digital Healthcare Limited England 100*
Egton Medical Information Systems Limited England 100*
EMIS Health India Private limited India 100*
EMIS Professional Publishing Limited^ England 100
Exeter Systems Limited^ England 100
Exeter Systems User Group Limited^ England 100
Footman Walker Associates Limited^ England 100
HE Information Systems Limited^ England 100
Healthcare Gateway Limited England 50
Indigo 4 Systems Limited England 100
Medical Imaging UK Limited England 100*
MIDRSS Limited Republic of Ireland 100*
Orion Imaging Limited England 100
Park Systems Limited^ England 100
Pathway Trust Limited^ England 100
Pharmacy 2U Limited England 17.8
PinBellCom Group Limited England 100
PinBellCom Limited England 100
Protechnic Computers Limited^ England 100
Protechnic Exeter Limited^ England 100
Rx Systems Limited England 78.9*
Scorpio Information Systems Limited^ England 100
Scroll Bidco Limited England 100
* Held directly by EMIS Group plc.
^ Dormant.
The above subsidiary undertakings are engaged in providing software and support services to the healthcare market, with the exception 
of Ascribe Group Limited, Scroll Bidco Limited, Ascribe Holdings Limited and PinBellCom Group Limited which are all holding companies.
Subsequent to the year-end there was a reduction in the % of issued ordinary shares held in Pharmacy 2U Limited to 14.8%. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
88
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
17. Investment in joint venture and associate
Associate
2015 2014
Group £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2,705 2,760
Share of result for year (388) (55)
Impairment (2,317) —
At 31 December — 2,705
The results above relate to Pharmacy 2U Limited (P2U), an unlisted company incorporated in the UK. Following a fundraising round 
in which the Group did not participate, the Group’s ownership and voting interest at 31 December 2015 was 17.8% (2014: 20%). 
The principal activity of P2U is the operation of an internet mail order pharmacy.
Following a difficult trading year for P2U, the carrying value of the investment has been tested for impairment in line with the 
Group’s accounting policies. As a result of this exercise a full impairment of the investment was recognised.
Aggregate amounts relating to P2U are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Revenues 18,118 17,286
Loss before taxation (2,293) (612)
Loss after taxation (2,111) (598)
Attributable to EMIS Group plc (395) (120)
Attributable to P2U’s other shareholders (1,716) (478)
Non-current assets 5,369 3,246
Current assets 2,445 3,760
Current liabilities (4,661) (3,604)
Non-current liabilities (463) (569)
Net assets 2,690 2,833
Attributable to EMIS Group plc 478 566
Attributable to P2U’s other shareholders 2,212 2,267
Group’s interest in net assets at beginning of year 566 686
Total comprehensive income attributable to the Group (395) (120)
Gain on dilution of shareholding 307 —
Group’s interest in net assets of investee at end of year 478 566
Adjustment in respect of prior years 72 65
Goodwill 2,074 2,074
Gain on dilution of shareholding not recognised (307) —
Impairment of investment (2,317) —
Carrying amount of interest in investee at end of year — 2,705
Adjustments in respect of prior years relate to the use of estimates in the calculation of the associate’s results arising from 
the differing year ends of the Group and P2U. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
89
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
17. Investment in joint venture and associate continued
Associate continued
During the year a gain on dilution of £307,000 arose from the reduction in the Group’s ownership. However, following the decision 
to fully impair the investment in P2U, the gain has not been recognised within the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
Joint venture
Healthcare Gateway Limited (HGL) is a joint venture formed with In Practice Systems Limited. Its purpose is to enable the sharing 
of patient data via a medical interoperability gateway.
The Group has a 50% interest in the ordinary share capital of HGL, acquired on formation for £1. The venture has to date been 
funded by loans from each joint venture party and at 31 December 2015 the Group was owed £155,000 (2014: £181,000).
Aggregate amounts relating to HGL are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Revenues 1,648 822
Proﬁt before taxation 678 42
Proﬁt after taxation 532 33
Current assets 1,512 571
Current liabilities (1,406) (995)
Net assets/(liabilities) 106 (424)
Group’s interest in net assets of investee at beginning of year (208) (225)
Share of total comprehensive income 339 17
Group’s interest in net assets of investee at end of year 131 (208)
In the prior year, the Group’s interest in net assets of the investee was offset against amounts owing from the investee in the Group 
balance sheet.
18. Inventories
2015 2014
Group £’000 £’000
Finished goods 1,206 1,550
19. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 15,385 13,389 — —
Prepayments and accrued income 18,508 15,343 369 151
Loan to Employee Beneﬁt Trust — — 3,137 4,122
Income tax — — — —
33,893 28,732 3,506 4,273
The loan to the Employee Beneﬁt Trust is non-interest bearing and is repayable on demand. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
90
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
20. Credit quality of ﬁnancial assets
The amounts of the maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date are as follows:
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 15,385 13,389 — —
Cash at bank 4,701 6,939 — —
20,086 20,328 — —
No collateral security is held.
Trade and other receivables
Reporting date balances fall within the following categories:
Group
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
UK governmental health bodies 7,124 5,670
Community pharmacies and associated wholesalers 3,933 2,956
Other third party receivables 4,328 4,763
15,385 13,389
Trade and other receivables are mainly due one month following the date of the invoice. At the reporting date the aged analysis 
of trade and other receivables is as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
December 10,482 7,865
November 2,263 1,952
October and earlier 2,640 3,572
15,385 13,389
The Group carries a provision for impairment of trade receivables of £348,000 (2014: £392,000).
Cash at bank
The Group’s cash is held with a number of different banks. The Moody’s long-term credit ratings of those banks and the respective 
balances held are as follows:
Group
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
A1 44 198
A2 1,024 628
A3 658 1,093
Aa2 475 502
Aa3 232 100
Baa1 411 798
Baa2 — 1,091
Baa3 71 —
Ba1 — 84
Caa2 1,786 2,445
4,701 6,939 EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
91
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
21. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables 5,081 7,496 562 22
Accrued expenses 7,084 7,273 487 335
Other tax and social security 5,612 6,013 — —
17,777 20,782 1,049 357
22. Borrowings
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current
Unsecured bank loans 1,951 5,854 1,951 5,854
1,951 5,854 1,951 5,854
Current
Bank overdraft 6,457 — 7,756 5,202
Unsecured bank loans 5,402 12,902 5,402 12,902
11,859 12,902 13,158 18,104
Bank loans comprise £6,000,000 of term loan, £1,500,000 drawn down under a revolving credit facility and £145,000 of unamortised 
arrangement fees. All bank loans bear an interest rate of 1.50% above LIBOR.
The term loan is repayable by equal quarterly instalments of £1,000,000, with a ﬁnal maturity date of 30 June 2017. The revolving 
credit facility and overdraft facility are committed until 30 June 2017. At 31 December 2015, £4,500,000 of the revolving credit 
facility was undrawn, and there was £3,543,000 of unused overdraft.
The ﬁnancial covenants in place for these facilities are: EBITA interest cover; net debt to adjusted EBITDA senior leverage; and cash 
ﬂow to senior debt cash ﬂow cover. All covenants were comfortably met during the year and are projected to be so in the coming year.
The fair value of current and non-current borrowings approximates to their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not signiﬁcant.
23. Liquidity risk
The following are the contractual maturities of the Group’s borrowings, including estimated interest payments:
Carrying Contractual Less than
amount cash ﬂow 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2015
Trade and other payables due within one year (17,777) (17,777) (17,777) — —
External borrowings (7,353) (7,610) (5,594) (2,016) —
Contingent acquisition consideration (3,000) (3,000) (3,000) — —
Bank overdraft (6,457) (6,457) (6,457) — —
(34,587) (34,844) (32,828) (2,016) —
At 31 December 2014
Trade and other payables due within one year (20,782) (20,782) (20,782) — —
External borrowings (18,756) (19,304) (13,194) (4,094) (2,016)
Contingent acquisition consideration (5,250) (5,250) (2,750) (2,500) —
(44,788) (45,336) (36,726) (6,594) (2,016)
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value, with fair values measured using level three inputs. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
92
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
24. Deferred tax
Property, Other
plant and Intangible temporary
equipment assets differences Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2014 (74) (13,123) 1,716 (11,481)
Credited to statement of comprehensive income 596 878 (1,416) 58
Credited to equity —— 52 52
Acquisition of businesses — (1,338) — (1,338)
At 31 December 2014 522 (13,583) 352 (12,709)
Credited to statement of comprehensive income 504 1,867 14 2,385
Credited to equity —— 134 134
Acquisition of businesses — (338) — (338)
Exchange differences —— (2) (2)
At 31 December 2015 1,026 (12,054) 498 (10,530)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for ﬁnancial reporting purposes:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities (12,509) (14,072)
Deferred tax assets 1,979 1,363
(10,530) (12,709)
25. Share capital and share premium
Share
premium
£’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each
Company and Group Number £’000
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 63,311,396 633 51,045
All issued shares are fully paid. At 31 December 2015 the EMIS Group plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust held 540,034 shares in the 
Company (2014: 636,832 shares).
During the year the Employee Beneﬁt Trust purchased 80,548 shares, representing 0.1% of the issued share capital of the Company, 
in relation to the exercise of employee share options.
During the year the Employee Beneﬁt Trust disposed of 177,346 shares, representing 0.3% of the issued share capital of the 
Company, for total consideration of £1,656,000.
The maximum number of shares held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust during the year was 636,832, representing 1.0% of the issued 
share capital of the Company. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
93
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
26. Share-based payments
At 31 December 2015 outstanding awards to subscribe for ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company, granted in accordance 
with the rules of the EMIS Group share option schemes and the EMIS Group LTIP, were as follows:
At At At
1 January 1 January 31 December
Date of grant 2014 Granted Lapsed Exercised 2015 Granted Lapsed Exercised 2015
2011 Share Option Plan
11 October 2011 62,436 — (11,352) (28,380) 22,704 — — (16,082) 6,622
1 October 2012 39,669 — (5,843) — 33,826 — (2,460) (21,406) 9,960
2 May 2013 5,476 — (1,369) — 4,107 — — — 4,107
18 October 2013 99,060 — (9,906) — 89,154 — (13,335) (444) 75,375
15 October 2014 — 54,918 (1,356) — 53,562 — (3,478) (56) 50,028
28 April 2015 ————— 47,437 (1,423) — 46,014
206,641 54,918 (29,826) (28,380)203,353 47,437 (20,696) (37,988) 192,106
Weighted average exercise price 649p 737p 645p 528p 690p 901p 705p 690p 741p
Unapproved Option Scheme
11 October 2011 12,298 — (8,514) (3,784) ———— —
1 October 2012 59,500 — (7,000) — 52,500 — — (45,264) 7,236
18 October 2013 138,000 — (17,000) — 121,000 — — — 121,000
209,798 —(32,514)(3,784)173,500 — —(45,264) 128,236
Weighted average exercise price 693p — 656p 528p 703p — — 812p 665p
EMIS Group LTIP
29 June 2012 400,000 — (400,000) ————— —
2 May 2013 50,000 ——— 50,000—— (27,714) 22,286
16 January 2014 — 49,019 — — 49,019 — — — 49,019
1 May 2014 — 314,350 (21,950) — 292,400 — (22,714) — 269,686
28 April 2015 —  —  — — — 266,554 (16,380) — 250,174
450,000 363,369 (421,950) — 391,419 266,554 (39,094) (27,714) 591,165
Weighted average exercise price 565p nil 519p — 91p nil nil 710p 27p
The number of vested options which had not been exercised at 31 December 2015 was 23,818 (2014: 22,704). The weighted-average 
share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in 2015 was £9.18 (2014: £8.05).
The parent company operates share option schemes (the HMRC approved EMIS Group plc 2011 Share Option Plan and the EMIS 
Group plc Unapproved Option Scheme) and an LTIP scheme. Tranches of options have been granted at market value to senior 
members of management under the 2011 Share Option Plan, the Unapproved Option Scheme and the 2012 and 2013 LTIP schemes, 
and at nil cost under the 2014 and 2015 LTIP schemes. Performance conditions apply to the 2014 and 2015 awards under the 2011 
Share Option Plan, the 2012 and 2013 awards under the Unapproved Option Scheme and the EMIS Group LTIP.
Options are conditional on the employee completing three years’ service, other than in certain limited circumstances. The Group 
has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options for cash.
The key assumptions used in the valuations are shown below. The fair values of options with performance conditions have been 
determined using the Monte Carlo Model. The fair values of options without performance conditions have been determined using 
the Black Scholes Model. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
94
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
26. Share-based payments continued
2011 Share Option Plan
Grant date 11 October 2011 1 October 2012 2 May 2013 18 October 2013 15 October 2014 28 April 2015
Exercise period October 2014 –
October 2016
October 2015 –
October 2017
May 2016 –
May 2018
October 2016 –
October 2018
October 2017 –
October 2019
May 2018 –
May 2019
Share price 
at grant date
528p 812p 730p 656p 737p 901p
Exercise price 528p 812p 730p 656p 737p 901p
Expected 
volatility
36% 30% 35% 35% 35% 26%
Expected life 
(years)
3333 3 3
Risk-free rate 2.75% 1.00% 1.40% 1.40% 2.37% 2.37%
Expected 
dividend yield
2.35% 1.64% 2.20% 2.20% 2.33% 2.03%
Fair value 
per option
109p 153p 157p 141p 164p 152p
 
 Unapproved Option Scheme
Grant date 11 October 2011 1 October 2012 18 October 2013
Exercise period October 2014 –
October 2016
June 2015 –
July 2016
July 2016 –
 October 2018
Share price at grant date 528p 812p 656p
Exercise price 528p 812p 656p
Expected volatility 36% 30% 35%
Expected life (years) 3 3 3
Risk-free rate 2.75% 1.00% 1.40%
Expected dividend yield 2.35% 1.64% 2.20%
Fair value per option 109p 75p 89p
 LTIP
Grant date 29 June 2012 2 May 2013 16 January 2014 1 May 2014 28 April 2015
Exercise period July 2015 –
July 2017
July 2015 –
July 2017
January 2017 May 2017 May 2018
Share price at grant date 547p 710p 630p 635p 908p
Exercise price 547p 710p 0p 0p 0p
Expected volatility 30% 30% 35% 35% 26%
Expected life (years) 4 3 3 3 3
Risk-free rate 1.00% 1.00% 2.37% 2.37% 2.37%
Expected dividend yield 2.30% 1.90% 2.5% 2.5% 2.03%
Fair value per option 85p 177p 584p 589p 854p
The expected volatility assumption is based on statistical analysis of the historical volatility of the Company’s share price.
The Company also operates an HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan, which is open to all UK employees with at least one year’s 
service. Those joining contribute a maximum of £1,800 a year, or 10% of salary, whichever is lower, which is used to acquire shares 
in the Company at market price from the EMIS Group plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust, which holds shares in the Company to satisfy 
Share Incentive Plan and other employee share scheme requirements.
For every three shares acquired by an employee the Company adds one free “matching” share. The matching shares, together with 
any free shares allocated to members under the scheme during the year, had a value of £437,000 (2014: £58,000). EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
95
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
27. Operating lease commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015 2014
Group £’000 £’000
Land and buildings
– due within one year 1,584 599
– due between one and ﬁve years 4,296 732
– due after ﬁve years 3,618 732
Plant, machinery and motor vehicles
– due within one year 767 36
– due between one and ﬁve years 1,488 61
– due after ﬁve years — 8
11,753 1,436
28. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2015 the Group had capital commitments in respect of computer equipment amounting to £1,732,000 (2014: £102,000). 
29. Cash generated from operations
Group Company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation 10,932 28,540 (19,214) 70
Finance income (28) (10) — (838)
Finance costs 477 553 541 553
Share of result of associate 388 55 — —
Share of result of joint venture (339) (17) — —
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 11,430 29,121 (18,673) (215)
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Amortisation of intangible assets 13,510 11,361 — —
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7,840 7,766 — —
Impairment of goodwill 16,183 — — —
Impairment of investment 2,317 — 17,203 —
Release of contingent acquisition consideration — (873) — (873)
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (44) (128) — —
Share-based payments 684 270 — 37
Operating cash ﬂow before changes in working capital 51,920 47,517 (1,470) (1,051)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventory 344 (119) — —
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (3,945) (6,912) (218) (135)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (3,246) 2,360 692 185
(Decrease)/increase in deferred income (2,362) 2,010 — —
Cash generated from operations 42,711 44,856 (996) (1,001) EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
96
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
30. Change in net debt
Finance
2014 Cash ﬂow costs 2015
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 6,939 (2,238) — 4,701
Bank overdraft —(6,457) — (6,457)
Bank loans due within one year (12,902) 7,500 — (5,402)
Bank loans due after one year (5,854) 4,000 (97) (1,951)
Net debt (11,817) 2,805 (97) (9,109)
31. Business combinations
On 13 July 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of PinBellCom Group Limited, a leading supplier of administration and 
compliance software to both the primary and the secondary care markets. The acquisition is in line with the Group’s strategy of 
providing connected healthcare IT for patients and those involved in their care.
The provisional fair values of the net assets acquired, consideration paid and goodwill arising on the transaction are shown in the 
table below:
Group £’000
Goodwill 1,967
Intangible assets acquired:
– computer software 844
– customer relationships 928
Property, plant and equipment 11
Trade and other receivables 260
Cash and cash equivalents 484
Trade and other payables (315)
Deferred income (377)
Deferred tax (338)
Total net assets 3,464
Consideration:
Cash consideration 3,464
Total consideration 3,464
Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired (484)
Net cash cost of acquisition paid in year 2,980
Goodwill relates principally to the experienced staff within the business.
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities represent the best estimate of the fair values at the date of acquisition. As permitted 
by IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’, these provisional amounts can be amended for a period of up to 12 months following 
acquisition if subsequent information becomes available which changes the estimates of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Since acquisition, the contribution of the acquired business to Group revenue and Group adjusted operating proﬁt has been 
£650,000 and £276,000 respectively. Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2015, the revenue and adjusted operating proﬁt 
for the year would have been £1,312,000 and £513,000 respectively.
In relation to the acquisition, costs of £40,000 have been expensed in the statement of comprehensive income.
During the year the accounting for the acquisition of the Medical Imaging business (acquired 22 December 2014) was ﬁnalised. 
This resulted in a reduction of £27,000 in the fair value of the net assets acquired, with a corresponding increase to goodwill.
In 2014 £873,000 of excess contingent consideration provision was released in relation to the acquisition of Ascribe Group Limited. EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
97
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
32. Pension commitments
Pension contributions of £2,402,000 (2014: £1,828,000) represent contributions paid on behalf of employees by the Group 
to various deﬁned contribution schemes.
33. Related party transactions
Key management compensation
Key management includes Executive and Non-executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Board. The compensation 
paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Salaries and other short-term employee beneﬁts 3,095 3,364
Post retirement beneﬁts 243 206
3,338 3,570
2015 2014
Directors’ emoluments £’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments 758 962
Pension costs – deﬁned contribution plans 81 75
839 1,037
Retirement beneﬁts are accruing to two (2014: two) Directors under deﬁned contribution personal pension schemes.
2015 2014
Highest paid Director £’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments 340 469
Pension costs – deﬁned contribution plans 47 45
387 514
Other related party transactions
2015 2014
Transactions between the Group and: £’000 £’000
Associate – Pharmacy 2U Limited 
Sales of goods and services in year 67 34
Joint venture – Healthcare Gateway Limited
Sales of goods and services in year 598 467
Amounts owed by related party at year end 155 181
Key management personnel
Sale of motor vehicles at market value 13 9
Transactions between Company and subsidiaries
The Company enters into transactions with its subsidiary undertakings in respect of internal funding and the provision of certain 
services which are procured by the Company. Such services are recharged based on the utilisation by the subsidiary undertaking. 
The amounts outstanding from subsidiary undertakings to the Company at 31 December 2015 totalled £44,960,000 (2014: £50,118,000). 
Amounts owed by the Company at 31 December 2015 totalled £28,678,000 (2014: £48,852,000).
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have entered into cross guarantees over bank loans and overdrafts to the 
Company. The total value of such borrowings at 31 December 2015 was £15,109,000 (2014: £23,958,000). EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
98
Internet
The Group operates a website which can be found at 
www.emisgroupplc.com/investors. This site is regularly updated 
to provide information about the Group. In particular, the share 
price and all of the Group’s press releases and announcements 
can be found on the site. The annual report and accounts 
will be published on www.emisgroupplc.com/investors. 
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility 
of the Directors. The auditor does not consider these matters.
Registrar
Any enquiries concerning your shareholding should be 
addressed to the Company’s registrar. The registrar should 
be notiﬁed promptly of any change in a shareholder’s address 
or other details: Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 
Beckenham Road, Beckenham BR3 4TU, tel: 0871 664 0300, 
lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday–Friday. The registrar’s 
website is www.capitashareportal.com. This will give you access 
to your personal shareholding by means of your investor code 
which is printed on your share certiﬁcate or statement of 
holding. A user ID and password will be sent to you once 
you have registered on the site. 
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about 
the Company. Details of any share dealing facilities that the 
Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or 
on our website. More detailed information can be found at 
www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
You can ﬁnd out more information about investment scams, how 
to protect yourself and report any suspicious telephone calls to 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) by visiting their website 
(www.fca.org.uk) or contacting them on 0800 111 6768.
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may ﬁnd it more convenient to make 
arrangements to have dividends paid directly into their bank 
account. The advantages of this are that the dividend is credited 
to a shareholder’s bank account on the payment date, there is 
no need to present cheques for payment and there is no risk of 
cheques being lost in the post. To set up a dividend mandate or to 
change an existing mandate, please contact Capita Asset Services, 
our registrar, whose contact details appear on this page.
Share dealing services
The sale or purchase of shares must be done through a 
stockbroker or share dealing service provider. The London Stock 
Exchange provides a “Locate a broker” facility on its website 
which gives details of a number of companies offering share 
dealing services. For more information, please visit the private 
investors section at www.londonstockexchange.com. Please 
note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking 
to encourage shareholders to either buy or to sell shares. 
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are 
recommended to seek ﬁnancial advice from an independent 
ﬁnancial adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000.
Share price information
The latest information on the share price is available at 
www.emisgroupplc.com/investors.
Shareholder information EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
99
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Directors and advisers
Directors
Executive
Chris Spencer – Chief Executive Officer 
Peter Southby – Chief Financial Officer
Non-executive
Mike O’Leary – Chairman 
Robin Taylor – Senior Non-executive Director
Kevin Boyd – Non-executive Director
Andy McKeon – Non-executive Director 
(resigned on 2 April 2015, re-appointed on 30 September 2015)
Company Secretary
Caroline Farbridge
Company number
06553923 (England and Wales)
Registered Office
Rawdon House 
Green Lane 
Yeadon 
Leeds LS19 7BY
Auditor
KPMG LLP
1 Sovereign Square 
Sovereign Street 
Leeds LS1 4DA
Nominated adviser and broker
Numis Securities Limited 
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London EC4M 7LT
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham BR3 4TU
Financial PR
MHP Communications
60 Great Portland Street 
London W1W 7RT
Legal advisers to the Company
Pinsent Masons LLP
1 Park Row 
Leeds LS1 5AB
Schoﬁeld Sweeney LLP
Church Bank 
Bradford 
BD1 4DY EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
100
Five year Group ﬁnancial summary
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 155,898 137,639 105,542 86,333 73,238
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
36,553 32,639 26,065 22,820 20,769
Proﬁt before tax 10,932 28,540 24,635 24,059 21,435
Earnings per share – basic 7.2p 35.3p 32.6p 32.5p 25.4p
Earnings per share – adjusted
1
45.3p 39.5p 34.0p 30.8p 27.7p
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders 13,306 11,533 10,056 8,237 7,248
Dividends per ordinary share 21.2p 18.4p 16.0p 14.2p 12.4p
Total equity 107,046 114,908 104,123 64,065 54,092
Cash generated from operations
2
36,528 38,333 32,627 27,402 27,083
Net (debt)/cash (9,109) (11,817) (13,491) 7,711 8,026
Average number of employees 1,863 1,611 1,356 1,116 898
1  Excludes impairment charges, release of contingent acquisition consideration, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs and amortisation of acquired 
intangibles. EPS calculations also adjust for the related tax and non-controlling interest impact.
2 Stated after deduction of capitalised development costs.  
Design Portfolio is committed to planting 
trees for every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees for Cities. EMIS Group plc
Registered Office 
Rawdon House 
Green Lane 
Yeadon 
Leeds LS19 7BY
Tel: 0113 380 3000 
www.emisgroupplc.com EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
