 Contents
Strategic Report
Essentra at a Glance 2 
What We Do 4
Chief Executive’s Review  6
Strategy and Progress 10
Financial Review  13
Operational Review  15
Regional Review 28
Management of Principal Risks 30
Corporate Responsibility 36
Directors’ Report
Group Management Committee 42
Board of Directors 44
Chairman of the Board’s Letter 46
Corporate Governance Framework 47
Corporate Governance Report 48
Audit Committee Chairman’s Letter 55
Report of the Audit Committee  56 
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Letter 60
Remuneration Policy Report 62
Annual Report on Remuneration 67
Other Statutory Information 79
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 83
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement 84
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 85
Consolidated Balance Sheet 86
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 87
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 88
Accounting Policies 89
Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates 96
Notes 97
Essentra plc Company Balance Sheet 128
Essentra plc Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity 129
Accounting Policies 130
Notes 132
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the Members of Essentra plc Only 138
Advisers and Investor Information 143
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
1 Health & Personal  
Care Packaging
A leading global provider of packaging 
and authentication solutions to a 
diversified blue-chip customer base in 
the pharmaceutical, health & personal 
care, consumer and specialist packaging 
sectors. The business focuses on delivering 
value-adding innovation, quality and 
service through the provision of a wide 
range of printed products and solutions, 
including cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, 
labels and authentication technologies.
 2015 highlights
 > Growth led by healthcare and 
consumer packaging, boosted by 
tobacco labels
 > Successful development of innovative 
new packaging and authentication 
solutions
 > Rapid integration of Clondalkin 
Specialist Packaging Division, to 
support targeted US$24m cost 
synergy savings
 > Agreement to acquire the 
pharmaceutical assets of Kamsri 
Printing & Packaging Pvt. Ltd. in India
 > Investment in second, state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facility in Newport, 
UK, to support future revenue growth 
opportunities and operating effiencies
Revenue 
2015: £268.6m 2014: £244.0m +10.1%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £60.3m 2014: £56.9m +6.0%
Further details 
Page 15
Revenue 
2015: £394.4m 2014: £169.3m +133.0%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £52.2m 2014: £30.8m +69.5%
Further details 
Page 18
Distribution 
The Components business is a global 
market-leading manufacturer and 
distributor of plastic injection moulded, 
vinyl dip moulded and metal items. 
Operating units in 29 countries serve a 
very broad industrial base of customers 
with a rapid supply of products for a 
variety of applications in industries such 
as equipment manufacturing, automotive, 
fabrication, electronics and construction.
The Speciality Tapes business has  
expertise in coating multiple adhesive 
systems in numerous technologies. With 
close to 3,000 adhesive products available 
for same-day shipping, Essentra’s products 
can meet all high-performance needs, 
from foam, magnetic, fingerlift and acrylic 
high bond tapes to hook and loop and 
non-skid foam.
The Security business has access  
to a wide portfolio of products and 
services, including printers, software and 
consumables from leading manufacturers.
2015 highlights
 > Growth led by Components in Europe 
and Asia
 > Further extension of product range 
in springs and magnets
 > Benefit from geographical expansion 
and site openings
 > Incremental revenue opportunities 
in custom injection moulding
 > Acquisition of Specialty Plastics 
in Australia
 > Rapid integration of Abric Seals in 
Malaysia and Kelvindale in Australia
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
2
STRATEGIC REPORT | ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE
ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE Filter  
Products
The only global independent cigarette 
filter supplier. The nine worldwide locations, 
including a dedicated Technology Centre 
supported by three regional development 
facilities, provide a flexible infrastructure 
strategically positioned to serve the 
tobacco industry. The business supplies  
a wide range of value-adding high-quality 
innovative filters, packaging solutions to 
the roll your own segment, fully-functional 
and packaged smokeless products and 
analytical laboratory services for ingredient 
measurement to the industry.
 2015 highlights
 > Growth driven by successful new 
products and additional services 
 > Continued increase in revenue from 
innovative special filters and ongoing 
intellectual property development
 > Growth in Scientific Services, boosted 
by additional e-cigarette testing 
capability and UK government 
contract win
 > Further production and quality 
efficiencies from investment in 
high-speed, flexible combining 
equipment
 > Reconfiguration of site footprint, 
to better serve customers and drive 
further opportunities and efficiencies
1
 Excluding intangible amortisation and 
exceptional operating items
Revenue 
2015: £302.6m 2014: £291.5m +3.8%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £55.4m 2014: £39.0m +42.1%
Further details 
Page 21
Revenue 
2015: £135.5m 2014: £162.1m -16.4%
 
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £19.8m 2014: £29.8m -33.6%
 
Further details 
Page 24
Specialist  
Technologies
A leading provider of specialised solutions 
to an international customer base in a 
diverse range of industries, including oil 
and gas, construction, point of sale, health 
& personal care and consumer goods.
Essentra Porous Technologies is a leading 
developer and manufacturer of innovative 
custom fluid-handling components used 
in a variety of end-markets, engineered 
from a portfolio of technologies that 
includes bonded and non-woven fibre, 
polyurethane foam and porous plastics.
The Pipe Protection Technologies business 
specialises in the manufacture of 
high-performance innovative products 
from commodity resins to engineering-
grade thermoplastics and polymer 
alloys for use in a range of industries.
One of Europe’s most advanced suppliers 
of co-extrusion and tri-extrusion to all 
branches of industry, Essentra Extrusion 
is a leading custom profile extruder 
located in the Netherlands, which offers 
a complete design and production service.
2015 highlights
 > Significant impact on Pipe Protection 
Technologies, owing to challenges in 
the oil & gas sector
 > Strong growth in Extrusion, driven 
by new business wins and more 
encouraging market conditions
 > Increase in Porous Technologies led 
by healthcare, and supported by 
speciality wipes and household
 > Continued investment in technological 
improvements and geographical 
expansion
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
3
STRATEGIC REPORT | ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE Our business model
Essentra operates at a Company, 
a Strategic Business Unit (“SBU”)  
and a regional level. The Company  
is responsible for managing the  
overall portfolio of business activities, 
to create sustainable long-term  
value for shareholders. Essentra  
has established processes and  
practices in place to ensure effective 
and efficient management across 
all of the categories which the 
Company serves.
We have a clear model for managing 
our portfolio of business activities
Strategic framework
Essentra’s business and financial objectives 
are defined in its Drive for 2020 strategy, 
which calls for balanced, profitable organic 
growth complemented by value-creating 
acquisitions. Each of the businesses is 
responsible for contributing to Essentra’s 
overall strategic priorities, to ensure the 
Company’s ongoing success and, hence, 
the creation of sustainable long-term 
shareholder value.
 
Risk management
Effective management of risk and 
opportunity is essential to the protection 
of Essentra’s reputation and the 
achievement of sustainable shareholder 
value. The Board of Directors is responsible 
for determining the risk attitude of the 
Company and for communicating to  
the organisation what constitutes 
acceptable risk-taking. The Board, 
supported by the Audit Committee,  
also oversees the management process  
for the identification, assessment and 
mitigation of risk across Essentra. 
Clear portfolio management
Talent management
Essentra’s employees are a vital resource 
in the pursuit of operational excellence 
and the provision of quality products 
and service. The skills and experience of 
Essentra’s employees drive the innovation 
which enables the Company to provide 
added value to its customers, enhance 
supply chain logistics with its suppliers 
and reduce the environmental impact 
of its operations. The Company regularly 
reviews its organisational structure to 
ensure that the business has the necessary 
personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
Legal requirements and compliance
Essentra is committed to ensuring that 
all of its activities are conducted in 
accordance with all applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements and the highest 
standards of ethical business conduct. The 
Company’s Code of Business Ethics policy 
aims to guide stakeholders, including 
employees, on the elements that drive the 
conduct of Essentra businesses. The way 
in which Essentra does business reflects 
its commitment to profitable growth, 
sustainable development and integrity, 
and the Company’s policies continue to 
promote fair and ethical dealings with 
customers and competitors as a matter 
of law and conscience.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
4
WHAT WE DO
STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO Leverage our scale
We have a well-invested and flexible 
international sourcing, supply chain  
and production infrastructure. This  
enables businesses across the Company 
the opportunity to use our existing 
infrastructure and management to 
 exploit new opportunities efficiently  
and cost-effectively. Our international 
distribution network ensures the delivery  
of cost-competitive and high-quality 
products in response to customers’ 
requirements. High levels of service and 
broad geographic reach are an important 
competitive differentiator.
Operate efficiently
We have a comprehensive international 
production and distribution footprint, 
which can be flexed to respond to 
customers’ needs, whether they be 
product, service, cost or supply chain 
driven. Supported by sophisticated IT 
systems, we are focused on being a 
low-cost producer, to secure revenue 
growth at attractive margins. Continuous 
improvement programmes, with tight cost 
control and productivity gains, serve to 
reduce conversion costs.
Shared business priorities
Invest in new product innovation
The continued successful launch and 
commercialisation of new products 
and services is a key driver of our future 
growth. Investment in research and 
development functions, supported by 
the identification of additional product 
sourcing opportunities to deliver product 
innovation and range development, 
provides the platform to further enhance 
our competitive positions. Robust quality 
systems maintained to internationally 
accredited standards assist the fulfilment 
of customers’ demands.
Benefit from our experienced 
management team and talent base
We have a highly experienced and 
well-regarded management team  
and employee base. Their detailed  
insight into customer needs and market 
trends allows us to respond proactively  
to changing priorities and to drive 
performance. Technical expertise is  
reflected in production and supply chain 
efficiencies and product innovation.
Develop long-term  
customer relationships
We develop and maintain a close 
relationship with a wide portfolio of 
blue-chip customers, who are successful 
leaders in their respective markets. The 
high standards of service and supply 
demanded by such customers help to 
drive continuous improvement across 
the Company. Our manufacturing and 
distribution expertise adds value in 
response to customer demands, and 
our innovative capabilities drive the joint 
development of new products and services 
with key strategic partners.
Delivering value
Building on our leading international 
market positions
We have secured leading international 
positions in many of our served markets 
in each of our four SBUs. With our 
investment in international infrastructure, 
technology, innovation and people, the 
strength of our businesses within their 
respective markets enables us to deliver 
balanced, profitable growth.
Clear portfolio management
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
5
WHAT WE DO In 2015, the first year of Drive for 2020,  
we delivered our strategic objectives; in 
addition, we exceeded £1bn of revenue 
for the first time in the Company’s history. 
This is notwithstanding the significant 
negative impact on our Pipe Protection 
Technologies (“PPT”) business of 
a sustained low oil price and the 
consequent impact on drilling activity. 
Continued delivery of balanced, 
profitable growth
In FY 2015, like-for-like revenue growth 
excluding PPT was 4.6%, and was 
supported by continued innovation, 
new business wins and investment in 
both existing and new geographical 
markets. However, with a c. 65% decline 
in PPT, total Group revenue increased 
to £1,098.1m, with like-for-like growth 
of 0.7%.
FY 2015 adjusted operating profit was 
ahead 20.3% (at constant exchange) to 
£171.5m. Excluding the significantly dilutive 
impact of the acquisition of Clondalkin 
Specialist Packaging Division (“SPD”), the 
adjusted operating margin was up 10bps 
(at both actual and constant exchange) 
at 16.6%: ex-PPT, the uplift was higher, 
at 80bps (+70bps at constant exchange). 
With only a modest increase in our 
financing costs resulting from higher net 
debt post the Clondalkin SPD transaction, 
and a further 210bps improvement in the 
tax rate, adjusted earnings per share (at 
constant exchange) increased by 12.6%.
During the year, we continued to invest in 
future revenue growth opportunities, with 
FY 2015 net capital expenditure of £54.8m. 
However, notwithstanding this spend, our 
cash generation remained good and our 
financial ratios strong, with net debt to 
EBITDA of 1.8x and interest cover of 17 .7x 
as at 31 December. Underpinned by this 
cash flow generation, we again confirmed 
our commitment to paying a progressive 
dividend, with a recommended 13.1% 
increase in the FY 2015 payout to 20.7p  
per share.
Consistent with our strategic objectives,  
we successfully completed a number  
of value-adding transactions which 
complemented the organic performance  
of the Company during the year. In 
Distribution, in February we announced 
that we had purchased Specialty Plastics, 
a leading Australian distributor of an 
extensive range of protective plastic 
products for a wide variety of attractive 
growth end-markets, including hydraulics, 
fabrication, construction and mining.
Separately, in Health & Personal Care 
Packaging, in January we completed  
the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD,  
a leading global provider of a broad  
suite of speciality secondary packaging 
solutions for the pharmaceutical, health 
and personal care industries. Valued at 
approximately US$455m, Clondalkin  
SPD is by far the largest transaction  
we have undertaken to date and we  
have made significant progress with  
the integration of the business this year. 
Indeed, at the HY 2015 results stage,  
we increased the target for potential 
synergy savings by 50% to at least 
US$24m on an annualised basis from  
2016, underscoring our confidence in 
rapidly enhancing Clondalkin SPD’s 
operating margin towards the Company 
average. Then, in October, we announced 
that we had signed an agreement to 
acquire the pharmaceutical packaging 
assets of Kamsri Printing & Packaging  
Pvt. Ltd. (“Kamsri”). Based in Bangalore, 
Kamsri is a leading manufacturer of 
premium packaging solutions for the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors  
in India and provides Essentra with an 
entry point into this attractive market, 
thereby reinforcing our global capabilities 
and enhancing the opportunities for our 
customers. As anticipated, the acquisition 
completed shortly after the year-end.
In 2015, we also continued our investment  
in our site footprint, as well as identified 
further opportunities for rationalisation  
and efficiency savings through adopting  
a more Company-wide approach to 
our manufacturing and distribution 
capabilities: as a result, 14 facilities 
were closed during the year. 
Our new, 23,000ft
2
 purpose-built 
distribution centre in Leduc, Canada  
is strategically located in Alberta and 
accommodates both our PPT and 
Components businesses, thereby 
consolidating our previous activities on  
the west coast. Meanwhile, we officially 
opened a 4,500m
2
 Components 
distribution centre in Paris, France to  
help support growth in this commercially 
significant market: already serving 12,000 
active customers from a range of c. 18,500 
essential components, this new facility 
– which consolidates our sales and 
distribution activities at a single site –  
will help to ensure that we provide our 
customers with an even better delivery  
and service proposition, and that we are 
optimally placed to meet their exacting 
product requirements. And in Sydney, 
Australia, our c. A$3m investment in a 
dedicated manufacturing and distribution 
facility entails a 400% increase in stock 
locations to leverage our global supply 
chain, with products from the new site 
serving customers in 16 countries across 
Europe, Asia, Australasia and the US.
Further to a comprehensive review  
of our global site footprint in Filter  
Products, we took the decision to close  
our Jarrow, UK manufacturing facility  
and to transfer the filter manufacturing, 
product development and innovation 
activities to Szigetszentmiklós, Hungary. 
Indeed, as an innovator and complete 
solutions provider to the tobacco industry,  
it is essential that Essentra continues to 
identify evolving market trends and 
respond to them in a way that enables  
us to continue to add value to our 
customers. In Europe, these trends  
reflect the continued shift in consumer 
demand from mature western countries  
to the more dynamic, developing markets 
in eastern Europe. Over the past ten years, 
cigarette sales volume in western Europe 
has declined by almost 30%, with the 
tobacco companies supplied by Essentra 
responding to this trend by relocating their 
own manufacturing footprint to central 
and eastern Europe. Indeed, only a tiny 
percentage of the filter production at  
our Jarrow facility was destined for the 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW domestic UK market. As such, and by 
aligning with the strategies and footprint  
of our customers in the most efficient 
way possible, the transfer of activities 
to Hungary will help to underpin our 
long-term position as the leading global 
independent supplier of filter products and 
related services to the tobacco industry.
Additionally, we took the opportunity  
of consolidating certain of our smaller  
sites in the UK into larger, better-equipped 
existing facilities. As a result, we 
transferred our Speciality Tapes activities 
to our packaging site in Nottingham and 
our Security operations to our European 
distribution hub in Kidlington; further  
to this relocation, the facilities in 
Bridlington and Banbury were closed. 
Drive for 2020 in action
In last year’s Annual Report – which 
followed almost immediately after  
the completion of our acquisition of 
Clondalkin SPD – we commented that  
the diversification of Essentra’s business 
activities into health and personal care 
packaging since 2013 represented the sort 
of bold thinking entailed by our Drive for 
2020 strategy which is required to deliver 
the next phase of the Company’s growth. 
And while the integration of Clondalkin  
SPD is still in hand – and there are naturally 
things we can continue to improve upon  
in our “core” business as well – nonetheless, 
the evolution of our Health & Personal Care 
Packaging SBU during 2015 provides some 
compelling examples of our Drive for 2020 
strategic objectives in action and, 
accordingly, our relentless drive to deliver 
long-term value to our shareholders.
Having completed the transaction on 30 
January 2015, we welcomed our Clondalkin 
SPD colleagues through an extensive day 
one on-site communication programme, 
co-ordinated across 24 sites in six countries 
in Europe and North America. Thereafter, 
and benefiting from our own experience 
in 2013, we rapidly rebranded the acquired 
business to Essentra within 60 days –  
from signage and workwear to office 
consumables and IT platforms – with 
formal customer and legal entity  
change taking place three months later. 
Accordingly, with the transaction taking 
Essentra from a leading European player 
to the global number two in specialist 
health and personal care secondary 
packaging, we made a good start in terms 
of integrating our activities and leveraging 
our combined scale and skills under a 
single Essentra brand.
 
Given the responsibility of the SBUs  
to identify market trends and drive 
product innovation and range 
development, during the year we further 
enhanced our go-to-market efforts 
by category and, thus, increased our 
relevance and market penetration. 
Underpinning this was the agreement and 
communication of a strategic plan in 
Health & Personal Care Packaging across 
all geographic regions, behind a common 
set of objectives and criteria, and based on 
detailed industry insight. The commercial 
teams were provided with newly-created, 
Essentra-branded product sample kits 
and literature, highlighting the breadth 
of solutions that the Group can provide 
to meet the exacting requirements of 
multi-national customers in these sectors 
– from regulatory-compliant product 
leaflets to authentication and tamper-
evident brand protection technologies. 
These efforts have been particularly 
important in the personal care and beauty 
space, in which the Clondalkin SPD 
acquisition significantly increased our 
exposure and where customers are not 
only focused on the practical attributes – 
but also the aesthetic qualities – of the 
components which form an intrinsic part 
of their overall brand proposition to 
consumers. In response to this demand, 
we have flexed the look and feel of our 
offering and communication, to better 
reinforce Essentra’s capabilities in the field 
of prestige packaging components – from 
flared and embossed folding cartons to 
sophisticated printing capabilities. 
Over the last couple of years, we have 
communicated our efforts to operate in 
a more co-ordinated fashion across the 
Essentra Group and how our rebranding 
has facilitated this objective. During 
the year, we further built upon these 
foundations, and the adoption of our 
matrix organisational structure has 
demonstrated the opportunities which 
are still available to Essentra in terms 
of realising our Drive for 2020 strategic 
objectives – notwithstanding the 
improvement we delivered over  
the course of Vision 2015.
However, it is the operational aspect that 
has represented the heaviest lifting, and 
we are pleased with the progress in 2015 
– both in terms of creating an efficient 
manufacturing footprint and the delivery 
of synergy savings. Indeed, having acquired 
24 sites, we have either closed (or are in 
the process of closing) nine in the US, UK, 
Ireland and the Netherlands – with a view 
to either consolidating them into the 
Essentra footprint or other Clondalkin 
SPD facilities. A notable case in point is 
in Newport where, having already opened 
a state-of-the-art labels and foils site in 
2014, our additional multi-million pound 
investment in an adjacent facility will 
receive the business of four smaller, 
capacity-constrained sites and will 
transform this combined location into a 
genuine centre of excellence, not only for 
our customers but also for our employees. 
Indeed, having held a recruitment Open 
Day in September for in excess of 100 
roles which will be created as a result 
of our expansion, we were very pleased 
that some 250 people visited us to find 
out more about the exciting career 
opportunities which Essentra is looking 
to provide at this new site. We were 
equally encouraged by the feedback we 
received from those who already work  
in the printing and packaging industry,  
in terms of the calibre of our location  
and the working environment we can 
provide there. Accordingly, through 
creating centres of manufacturing 
excellence, we firmly believe that this  
will ensure that Essentra is optimally 
positioned to provide a market-leading 
product range and superior service level  
to our customers from a site footprint 
based on future growth opportunities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Evolving our organisational  
structure for even greater focus
2015 represented the first full year 
of the implementation of our matrix 
organisational structure, with the grouping 
of our activities into the three geographic 
regions of Europe, Americas and Asia 
supplementing our SBUs. And while there 
are naturally aspects we can improve upon 
to ensure more seamless interaction across 
the Company, we are already seeing 
tangible benefits. For example, in Europe, 
further to operational challenges arising 
from winning more orders than we could 
profitably fulfil, we have developed and 
implemented best practice processes 
and procedures for the onboarding of 
new health and personal care packaging 
business which have been adopted 
throughout the Group. Meanwhile, in the 
Americas, we successfully leveraged the 
Essentra offering and technologies with a 
key writing instrument customer to exploit 
category selling opportunities, securing 
business not only in our traditional 
reservoir and nib offering, but also with 
speciality wipes and extruded plastic. 
Finally, in Asia, the regional structure 
facilitated the very rapid integration of 
the major operating subsidiaries of Abric 
Berhad (“Abric Seals”) into the Essentra 
footprint and product range, such that 
the acquired business was fully rebranded 
and integrated within the space of 
four months. 
Having had the opportunity of reviewing 
the structure in action – and also taking 
into account the impact of the acquisition 
of Clondalkin SPD – the Board and the 
Group Management Committee (“GMC”) 
have taken the decision to further evolve 
the SBUs, to provide even greater focus 
to the organisation. As a result, with effect 
from 1 January 2016, we are operating with 
three: Health & Personal Care Packaging, 
Component Solutions and Filtration 
Products. In respect of the former, this 
will now see our pharmaceutical, health 
& personal care and consumer goods 
packaging activities grouped with 
Speciality Tapes, which shares many 
common features in terms of 
manufacturing process and footprint – 
not least since the afore mentioned 
relocation of manufacturing to 
Nottingham. Component Solutions will 
comprise Components, PPT, Extrusion and 
Security – each of which serves customers 
in light and heavy industry – while our 
Filter Products and Porous Technologies 
businesses will combine to form the 
Filtration Products SBU, as they share 
many common raw material and 
production processes.
Talent
At all levels, our employees are a vital 
resource in the Company’s pursuit  
of operational excellence and the  
provision of quality products and  
services to our customers.
Indeed, as an international organisation,  
it is important that we attract an 
appropriate level of local talent and 
enhance mobility through increasing 
cross-divisional moves. In this respect,  
we made further progress during the year, 
both in terms of developing our existing 
employees as well as adding to our talent 
base from outside the Company and 
through recent acquisitions.
At Board level, and consistent  
with the Company’s comprehensive 
succession planning, Stefan Schellinger 
was appointed to the position of Group 
Finance Director. Having joined Essentra 
in 2013 as Corporate Development 
Director, Stefan combines excellent 
financial and leadership skills with an 
outstanding track record of strategic  
and corporate development. Stefan’s 
appointment to the role followed the 
resignation of Matthew Gregory who, 
following a successful twelve-year career  
with Essentra, left to pursue an 
opportunity outside the Company.
Having introduced assessment-based 
Leadership Development Centres (“LDC”) 
in 2014, a total of 89 colleagues across all 
geographical regions have now attended, 
with three management development 
programmes covering coaching, 
influencing skills and performance 
management being launched at the  
end of the year in response to the LDC 
findings. In addition, a set of behavioural 
competencies was finalised, clearly 
articulating what is expected of our  
people at all levels of the organisation, 
which will be used to drive performance 
management further in 2016. 
The Essentra Graduate Development 
Programme enjoyed further success in 
2015. The two-year graduate programme 
has provided a talent pipeline for a 
number of years and, in 2015, 19 people 
joined the scheme, which continues to 
expand its international reach. The 2015 
intake will join the 21 graduates recruited 
in 2014, and will have the opportunity to 
develop their management skills through 
bespoke training which takes place around 
Essentra’s sites, giving graduates exposure 
to the business while carrying out an 
operational role from day one. Separately, 
in December, the 2013 graduate intake 
completed their programme, with a 
number of successful presentations hosted 
in Kidlington. Representatives from senior 
management were invited to watch the 
graduate teams drawn from across 
functions and geographies present 
on projects focusing on “Global Key 
Account Management” and “How to 
Improve Stakeholder Perceptions for 
Revenue Generation” .
The Board and the GMC are committed 
to ensuring that Essentra is a great place 
to work and that we continue to improve 
as an organisation. Having undertaken 
our second Group-wide employee 
engagement survey in December 2014, 
action plans responding to the feedback 
were developed and implemented during 
the course of 2015. For example, in the 
Americas region, employee communication 
and recognition initiatives have been 
improved at Erie, Richmond and 
Greensboro in the US, and in Brazil. 
Meanwhile, in Asia, there has been a focus 
on employee training and development, 
including aspects such as new product 
awareness in Korea, job enrichment at 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
8
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW the Filter Products joint venture site in 
India and supervisory skills in Thailand. 
Finally, in Europe, there has been a focus 
on improved communications and 
performance development reviews across 
a number of sites including Cervia and 
Piacenza in Italy, as well as in Finland 
and Sweden. 
These action plans will continue to be 
monitored and reviewed, and we intend 
to launch our third engagement survey 
during the course of 2016. 
Further to the appointment of a new 
Chief Information Officer to the Group 
Leadership Team last year, in 2015 we 
made further progress in terms of 
addressing the growing Information 
Technology risks which all companies face 
in the cyber security domain. In addition, 
and consistent with our Drive for 2020 
objective of Integration, we deployed a 
standard set of policies and controls across 
the Group behind a harmonised central IT 
platform – Standard Desktop, an industry-
leading, best-in-class solution – which has 
also provided us with enhanced, more 
seamless global collaboration capabilities. 
Continuing to build on our track record 
in health and safety
Essentra’s overriding concern in the 
workplace continues to be the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees  
and those who visit the Company’s 
locations, as well as those who carry 
out work on our behalf.
In 2015, the regional leadership 
structure continued to help drive further 
improvements in the HSE standards which 
the Company has already achieved. 
Indeed, the Group-wide HSE management 
system and Stop, Think, Evaluate, Proceed 
(“STEP”) shop floor programme which was 
rolled out in 2014 has already resulted in an 
improvement in performance and better 
engagement and reporting of HSE issues. 
As a result, such initiatives, which focus 
on risk identification – as opposed to mere 
accident reporting – have led to a further 
reduction in our lost-time accident rate. 
Reinforcing the importance of HSE to the 
Company, we are expanding the annual 
Safety, Health, Environment & Quality 
Awards programme, the objective of which 
is to recognise employees and facilities that 
have achieved – or are progressing towards 
– world-class levels of HSE performance, 
including the development, sustainment 
and continuous improvement of a positive 
and supportive culture. Going forward, 
there will be five award categories: 
Certificate of Operational Safety 
Performance; Health & Safety Best 
Practice Project and Improvement Award; 
Environmental & Social Responsibility 
Award; Quality Best Practice & 
Improvement Award; and Safety, Health, 
Environment & Quality Champion Award.
As Essentra continues to increase in size – 
both organically and via acquisition –  
and the global legislative backdrop for HSE 
continues to change apace, the Board and 
the GMC are convinced that our regional 
structure will allow the Company to make 
continuous improvement, to benefit from 
local expertise and to share best practice 
around the organisation in this critical area.
Reinforcing our responsibilities
Essentra is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
responsibility, to ensure that the way in 
which we manage our activities reflects 
the expectations of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As a member of both the 
FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust,  
we recognise that our interaction with 
the environment and local communities 
is a critical component of the international 
reputation and quality of Essentra’s 
businesses, as well as a cornerstone of 
developing a responsible, progressive  
and winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities 
hold the ISO 14001 environmental 
accreditation and, with the exception 
of recently acquired sites (which, as 
per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 
months to reach the required standard), 
they have also achieved the Occupational 
Health & Safety Management Systems 
OHSAS 18001. In addition, eleven sites 
gained ISO 50001 during the year. 
Attaining the ISO 50001 energy 
management standard at all our 
manufacturing facilities is a key objective 
and, consistent with our target, we are 
on track to meet the more stringent 
conditions required to gain a single 
Group-wide certificate by the end of 2016.
Essentra is committed to efficiency  
in all aspects of our organisation, and we 
have further reduced the environmental 
impact of our business in other aspects, 
with our “War on Waste” initiative 
continuing to deliver better utilisation – 
and reuse – of raw materials across 
the Company.
Summary 
Essentra made a solid start to our Drive  
for 2020 strategy notwithstanding the 
challenging environment in the oil &  
gas industry. We also made encouraging 
progress with the integration of the 
Clondalkin SPD, over and above which 
acquisition rationalisation we consolidated 
a further five facilities across the Group, to 
better leverage our footprint and generate 
further opportunities for efficiency savings. 
In delivering these results, I would  
like to acknowledge the efforts of all our 
employees, and to thank them for their 
commitment and dedication to Essentra’s 
continued growth and development.
Outlook
In an environment where economic  
growth is by no means well established  
or uniform – not least in the oil & gas 
sector – we are nonetheless confident 
of delivering balanced profitable growth 
in 2016, due to our international footprint 
and diverse range of products and 
end-markets.
COLIN DAY 
Chief Executive
19 February 2016
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Our vision
To build a leading global provider of 
essential components and solutions.
Our objective
To create sustainable long-term value  
for our shareholders.
Our strategic priorities
 > Integration: Operate a global, 
integrated Essentra Group generating 
synergy across all regions, functions 
and business activities
 > Relevance: Increase relevance to 
customers and market penetration
 > Active management: Actively manage 
and upgrade the Group portfolio
 > Excellence: Drive  
operational excellence
 > High performance: Build a high-
performing, diverse and global  
talent base
Our financial priorities
 > Deliver balanced, profitable growth  
in both our existing and future 
opportunity markets and technologies
 > Re-invest in the business for  
future growth
 > Focus on strong translation of profit 
into cash
 > Return cash to shareholders in the 
form of a progressive dividend
Our responsibilities
 > Manage our activities to reflect  
the high expectations of all  
our stakeholders
 > Establish safe operational  
procedures, and manage our impact 
on the environment
 > Attract and develop motivated  
and highly skilled employees
 > Conduct our business to the highest 
ethical standards
How we will achieve it
Integration
As Essentra becomes larger, it is 
imperative that we continue to evolve 
in order to maximise the opportunities 
available to the overall Group so as to 
outperform our underlying markets on 
a consistent basis. The implementation 
of our category-focused model and Key 
Account Management under a single 
Essentra brand, together with sharing 
facilities and back office functions (such 
as Human Resources, Finance and IT), 
allow us to leverage our size, scale, 
infrastructure and talent to better 
exploit available growth opportunities. 
Relevance
To drive future revenue growth, we 
continually seek to increase our relevance 
to customers and the penetration of our 
targeted end-markets. In order to add 
value, we aim to leverage the collective 
capabilities of the Company in terms  
of our intellectual property, business  
know-how and commercial footprint, 
and accordingly invest in innovation and 
technical and / or process capabilities. 
Range expansion and moving into 
adjacent technologies also provide us 
with growth opportunities.
 
Active management
Essentra’s aim is to build a market-leading 
portfolio of strongly performing essential 
components businesses focused on 
attractive existing and adjacent end-
markets by leveraging our key capabilities. 
Not only does this entail complementing 
our balanced, profitable organic growth 
with value-adding acquisitions, it also 
involves improving or exiting businesses 
which do not meet our criteria for 
strategic and / or financial attractiveness.
Excellence
Continued investment in fewer, bigger 
and better facilities, combined with 
footprint rationalisation and co-location 
of our business activities, allows us 
to better support revenue growth 
opportunities as well as realise 
efficiency savings.
High performance
At all levels, our employees are a vital 
resource in the Company’s pursuit of 
operational excellence and the provision 
of quality products and service to our 
customers. As an international organisation, 
it is critical that we operate a world-class 
global talent management process and 
create a high-performance culture. 
Accordingly, we seek to attract, retain and 
develop an appropriate level of local talent 
and enhance mobility through increasing 
cross-business moves.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
10
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
STRATEGIC REPORT | STRATEGY AND PROGRESS Strategic 
objectives
Progress in 2015 Priorities in 2016
Integration > Rapidly rebranded Clondalkin SPD and other acquisitions to Essentra 
 > Deployed standard policies and controls behind a harmonised central 
IT platform
 > Complete integration of Clondalkin 
SPD and deliver targeted US$24m 
cost synergy savings
Relevance > Converted manufacturing know-how and intellectual property into 
commercial success across SBUs
 > Exploited cross-selling opportunities through category-focused 
go-to-market
 > Continued range expansion and improved marketing effectiveness
 > Further successful exploitation 
of innovation and manufacturing 
capabilities in new technologies, 
products and services across 
the Company
Active 
management
 > Completed the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD and announced an 
agreement to acquire the pharmaceutical packaging assets of 
Kamsri in Health & Personal Care Packaging
 > Acquired Specialty Plastics in Distribution
 > Successful integration of 2015 
acquisitions
 > Identify further opportunities  
across SBUs
Excellence > Significant integration of facilities, particularly in Health & Personal 
Care Packaging
 > Leveraged site footprint more efficiently
 > Increased consolidation of business activities at individual site level
 > Continued investment in upgrading / adding machinery and 
equipment, and capacity
 > Continued investment to support 
revenue growth opportunities
 > Drive revenue growth from  
a more focused go-to-market  
effort by category
 > Further leverage of collective 
capabilities across regions
High 
performance
 > Increased participation in Leadership Development Centres
 > Launched three new management development programmes
 > Finalised behavioural competencies model, to help drive 
performance management
 > Extended geographic reach of the Graduate Development 
Programme
 > Developed and implemented action plans in response  
to 2014 employee engagement survey
 > Continue to grow and develop  
talent across Essentra 
 > Increase intra-Company moves  
to enhance mobility
 > Attract appropriate level of talent  
for a global business
 > Continue to widen the geographic 
reach of the Leadership Development 
Centres and Graduate Development 
Programme
 > Undertake third Group-wide 
employee engagement survey
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
11
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS What we measure Why we measure it How did we do?
Revenue growth
1
 
% growth in like-for-like revenue
Measures the ability of the Company 
to grow sales by operating in selected 
geographies and categories, and offering 
differentiated, cost-competitive products 
and services
1 
Revenue growth (%)
(2014: 9%)
Operating margin
2
 
Operating profit
2
 as a % of revenue
Measures the profitability of the Company
15.6
Operating margin (%)
(2014: 16.5%)
Earnings per share
2
 
% change in earnings per share
2
Measures the benefits generated for 
shareholders from the Company’s 
overall performance
47.6 
Earnings per share (p)
(2014: 42.3p)
Net working capital ratio
3
 
Defined as inventories plus trade and other 
receivables less trade and other payables, 
adjusted to exclude deferred consideration 
receivable / payable, interest accruals / 
capital payables and other normalising 
items, as a % of revenue
Measures the ability of the Company to 
finance its expansion and release cash 
from working capital
12.5
Net working capital ratio (%)
(2014: 11.5%)
Cash conversion
Operating cash flow as  
a % of operating profit
Measures how the Company converts  
its profit into cash
57
Cash conversion (%)
(2014: 75%)
Dividend per share
% change in dividend per share
Measures the amount of cash 
per share which the Company 
returns to shareholders
20.7
Dividend per share (p)
(2014: 18.3p)
Total shareholder return 
Total annual increase in value based  
on the increase in share price and 
the dividend paid to shareholders
Measures the Company’s ability to  
generate long-term value
15.5
Total shareholder return (%)
(2014: -13.1%)
1
 At constant exchange rates, excluding acquisitions and disposals
2
 At constant exchange rates, excluding the impact of intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items
3
 At constant exchange rates
 Performance measures 
for the Executive Annual Bonus Plan
 Performance measures  
for the Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan
From a financial perspective, Drive for 
2020 calls for balanced, profitable organic 
growth: a top-down model with an 
emphasis on strong performance across 
the board, rather than placing undue 
reliance on one particular metric to drive 
Essentra’s results. The Company seeks to 
complement this balanced, profitable 
organic growth with value-adding 
acquisitions across its SBUs.
The delivery of Essentra’s strategic 
priorities is underpinned by focusing on key 
performance indicators which measure 
the Company’s progress in the delivery  
of shareholder value.
A number of these indicators have  
also been used as principal elements in 
assessing the short-term and long-term 
performance of the operating businesses.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
12
STRATEGIC REPORT | STRATEGY AND PROGRESS Basis of preparation
The financial information is prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union and IFRS as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board, 
and with the accounting policies set out 
on pages 89 to 95.
Foreign exchange rates
Movements in exchange rates relative to 
sterling affect actual results as reported. 
The constant exchange rate basis adjusts 
the comparative to exclude such 
movements, to show the underlying 
performance of the Company. For the 
principal exchange rates for Essentra for 
the year ended 31 December 2015 (“FY 
2015”), see the table below. Re-translating 
at FY 2015 average exchange rates 
decreases the prior year revenue and 
increases adjusted operating profit by 
£2.9m and £0.1m respectively.
Principal 
exchange rates US$:£ €:£
Average
FY 2015 1.53 1.37
FY 2014 1.65 1.24
Closing
FY 2015 1.47 1.36
FY 2014 1.56 1.28
Like-for-like basis
The term “like-for-like” describes the 
performance of the business on a 
comparable basis, excluding the impact  
of acquisitions, disposals and foreign 
exchange. The FY 2015 results are adjusted 
for Clondalkin Specialist Packaging 
Division (“Clondalkin SPD”, acquired on  
30 January 2015), excluding certain 
non-material activities of a distribution 
nature which have been fully integrated 
and managed therein. The impact of the 
major operating subsidiaries of Abric 
Berhad (“Abric Seals”, acquired on 
16 December 2014) is not excluded from 
the like-for-like results from 1 March 2015 
(Europe and US) and 1 April 2015 (Asia), 
as it is no longer separately identifiable 
having been fully integrated into the 
Components business. The impact of 
Specialty Plastics (acquired on 27 February 
2015) is not excluded from the like-for-like 
results, as it is not separately identifiable 
having been fully integrated into the 
Components business upon completion 
of the acquisition.
Adjusted basis
The term “adjusted” excludes the impact 
of intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items, less any associated tax 
relief. In FY 2015, intangible amortisation 
was £31.7m (2014: £17 .5m), and there was 
an exceptional pre-tax charge of £39.1m 
(2014: £16.2m) mainly relating to 
integration costs and fees arising from 
the afore mentioned acquisitions and 
other site footprint consolidation. 
Trading performance
Full year revenue increased +26.9% (+27 .3% 
at constant exchange) to £1,098.1m, with 
like-for-like growth of 0.7%. Excluding Pipe 
Protection Technologies (“PPT”), like-for-
like growth was 4.6% and was supported 
by investment in both existing and new 
geographical markets, continued product 
innovation and new business wins. 
On an adjusted basis, operating profit 
was ahead 20.4% (+20.3% at constant 
exchange) to £171.5m. Excluding 
Clondalkin SPD, the adjusted operating 
margin was up 10bps (at both constant 
and actual exchange) at 16.6%: ex-PPT, 
the uplift was higher, at 80bps (+70bps 
at constant exchange). The integration 
of Clondalkin SPD proceeded well, with 
the rationalisation of nine sites already 
either closed or under consultation, 
and encouraging progress made on 
procurement savings. Operating profit as 
reported was £100.7m, -7 .4% lower than 
last year (-7 .8% at constant exchange).
Net finance expense
Net finance expense was higher at £10.3m 
(2014: £9.1m). The net interest charge on 
net debt increased to £9.4m (2014: £8.6m), 
the amortisation of bank facility fees was 
slightly lower at £0.7m (2014: £1.1m) and 
there was a IAS 19 pension finance charge 
of £0.2m (2014: credit of £0.6m).
Tax
The effective tax rate on profit before 
exceptional items and tax was 22.8% 
(2014: 24.9%). A significant driver of the 
movement was a reduction in the Group’s 
weighted average applicable tax rate from 
changes in the underlying geographical 
balance of profits and corporate tax rates 
in those territories. 
Net income
Adjusted net income was up 24.3% 
(+23.4% at constant exchange) to £124.4m. 
On a reported basis, net income of £68.7m 
decreased 4.3% (-5.6% at constant 
exchange). Fully diluted adjusted earnings 
per share of 47 .0p was up 14.4% (13.6% 
ahead at constant exchange). 
Dividends
The Board of Directors recommends a final 
dividend of 14.4p per share (2014: 12.6p), 
an increase of 14.3%. This takes the FY 2015 
dividend to 20.7p per share (+13.1% versus 
FY 2014).
Net working capital
Net working capital is defined as 
“inventories plus trade and other receivables 
less trade and other payables, adjusted to 
exclude deferred consideration receivable / 
payable, interest accruals / capital payables 
and other normalising items.”
Net working capital of £137 .2m was £35.8m 
higher than the 31 December 2014 level of 
£101.4m as a result of acquisitions and 
growth. The net working capital / revenue 
ratio increased to 12.5% (2014: 11.5%).
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
13
FINANCIAL REVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW Cash flow
Operating cash flow was lower, at £98.6m 
(2014: £107 .0m). This included an outflow 
of net working capital for the year of 
£52.8m (2014: £25.4m) and gross capital 
expenditure of £58.6m (2014: £38.1m), with 
net capital expenditure at £54.8m (2014: 
£33.1m). Net capital expenditure equated 
to 172% (2014: 122%) of the depreciation 
charge for the year of £31.9m (2014: £27 .2m) .
Net interest paid was £9.4m (2014: £8.5m) 
and tax payments decreased by £4.8m to 
£15.7m (2014: £20.5m). The outflow in 
respect of pension obligations was 
higher at £5.1m (2014: £2.5m). 
Free cash flow of £68.4m compared to 
£75.5m in FY 2014.
Free cash flow reconciliation (£m)
Adjusted operating profit 171.5
Non-cash / other items 34.7
Net working capital (52.8)
Net capital expenditure (54.8)
Adjusted operating cash flow 98.6
Tax paid (15.7)
Net interest paid (9.4)
Pension contributions (5.1)
Free cash flow 68.4
Net debt
Net debt at the end of the period was 
£373.9m, an increase of £311.8m from  
1 January 2015, with cash flow generation 
offset by the acquisition of Clondalkin 
SPD and higher dividends.
The Company’s financial ratios remain 
strong. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA 
as at 31 December 2015 was 1.8x 
(31 December 2014: 0.4x) and interest 
cover was 17 .7x (31 December 2014: 15.5x).
Balance sheet
As at the end of 2015, the Company had 
shareholders’ funds of £609.5m (2014: 
£592.8m), an increase of 2.8%. Net debt 
was £373.9m (2014: £62.1m) and total 
capital employed in the business was 
£989.1m (2014: £659.9m).
This finances non-current assets of 
£1,009.7m (2014: £671.9m), of which 
£288.8m (2014: £230.5m) is tangible fixed 
assets, the remainder being intangible 
assets, deferred tax assets, retirement 
benefit assets and long-term receivables.
The Company has net working capital of 
£137 .2m (2014: £101.4m), current provisions 
of £8.0m (2014: £4.2m) and long-term 
liabilities other than borrowings of £120.5m 
(2014: £83.4m). The return on average 
invested capital (including intangibles) 
was 13.0% (2014: 17 .3%), owing to 
acquisitions during the year.
Pensions
As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s 
IAS 19 pension liability was £0.8m (2014: 
£1.7m) and the associated deferred tax 
asset was £1.9m (2014: £2.9m). The pension 
asset has been calculated after updating 
asset values and certain assumptions as 
at 31 December 2015.
Treasury policy and controls
Essentra has a centralised treasury 
function to control external borrowing 
and manage exchange risk. Treasury 
policies are approved by the Board and 
cover the nature of the exposure to be 
hedged, the types of financial investments 
that may be employed and the criteria 
for investing and borrowing cash. The 
Company uses derivatives only to manage 
foreign currency and interest rate risk 
arising from underlying business activities. 
No transactions of a speculative nature 
are undertaken.
Treasury activities are subject to 
independent reviews by the Group 
Assurance department. Underlying policy 
assumptions and activities are reviewed 
by the Treasury Committee.
Controls over exposure changes and 
transaction authenticity are in place, 
and dealings are restricted to those 
banks with the relevant combination of 
geographical presence and suitable credit 
rating. Essentra monitors the credit ratings 
of its counterparties and credit exposure 
to each counterparty.
Foreign exchange risk 
The majority of Essentra’s net assets 
are in currencies other than sterling. 
The Company’s normal policy is to limit 
the translation exposure and the 
resulting impact on shareholders’ funds 
by borrowing in those currencies in which 
the Company has significant net assets. 
As at 31 December 2015, Essentra’s US 
dollar-denominated assets were 
approximately 78% hedged by its US 
dollar-denominated borrowings, and 
its euro-denominated assets were 
approximately 58% hedged by its 
euro-denominated borrowings.
The majority of Essentra’s transactions are 
carried out in the functional currencies of 
its operations, and so transaction exposure 
is limited. However, where they do occur, 
the Company’s policy is to hedge the 
exposures as soon as they are committed 
using forward foreign exchange contracts.
STEFAN SCHELLINGER
Group Finance Director
19 February 2016
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
14
STRATEGIC REPORT | FINANCIAL REVIEW Distribution 
A leading global manufacturer and 
distributor of a comprehensive range 
of components, used in diverse 
industrial applications and end-
markets.
Revenue
2015: £268.6m 2014: £244.0m +10.1%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £60.3m 2014: £56.9m +6.0%
Operating margin
1
 
2015: 22.4% 2014: 23.3% -90bps
Revenue per employee 
2015: £122.0k 2014: £148.7k -18.0%
Revenue by destination
(%)
Europe & Africa 50.9
Americas 39.4
Asia including Middle East 9.7
Revenue by end-market
(%)
Electronics 30.9
Fabrication machinery 23.4
Automotive 11.4
Paper, board & point of sale 10.5
Document & identity solutions 5.6
Other 18.2
Who we are and what we do
The Components business is a global 
market leading manufacturer and 
distributor of plastic injection moulded, 
vinyl dip moulded and metal items. 
Operating units in 29 countries serve a 
very broad industrial base of customers 
with a rapid supply of products for a 
variety of applications in industries such 
as equipment manufacturing, automotive, 
fabrication, electronics and construction.
The Speciality Tapes business is a leading 
manufacturer and distributor of adhesive-
coated products for a wide range of 
industries and applications, in particular 
the point of sale and white goods sectors.
The Security business is a European leading 
provider of ID card printers, systems and 
accessories to direct and trade customers, 
providing the broadest product offering 
and most competitive value.
How we do it
The objective of our Components business 
is to leverage its extensive customer base, 
product range and distribution capability, 
using our efficient sourcing and 
manufacturing operations and integrated 
IT platform, to respond to the demands 
of our diverse customer base. Our tool 
library, product development skills and 
manufacturing experience, combined with 
our inventory and logistics infrastructure, 
are unique assets. We have sophisticated 
business-to-business, multi-channel 
marketing expertise, and support this 
with our knowledgeable sales resource 
and comprehensive product catalogues, 
which are available in many languages 
and online.
We target organic growth through 
increasing the range of products and 
effective marketing, expanding our 
customer base and entering new 
geographic markets. We also see 
opportunities to grow through acquisition, 
where it can move our business into 
complementary product categories or 
end-markets, or further our geographic 
distribution capability.
The Speciality Tapes business has 
expertise in coating multiple adhesive 
systems in numerous technologies. With 
close to 3,000 adhesive products available 
for same-day shipping, Essentra’s products 
can meet all high-performance needs, 
from foam, magnetic, finger lift and 
acrylic high bond tapes to hook and loop 
and non-skid foam.
The Security business has access to a 
wide portfolio of products and services, 
including printers, software and 
consumables from leading manufacturers. 
Our systems produce durable, high-
quality, credit card-style photo ID cards, 
which are compatible with the majority of 
security systems, and which can be 
specified to incorporate magstripes, 
barcodes, contactless chips or smart 
cards. To complement our ID card systems, 
the Security business also offers a range 
of manual and electronic visitor 
management systems, as well as an 
extensive range of ID accessories such 
as badge holders, clips and lanyards.
How we performed in 2015
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 10.1% (11.4% at constant 
exchange) to £268.6m. On a like-for-like 
basis, growth was 10.0% and was driven 
by new business wins, the roll-out of 
distribution sites and range expansion.
In Components, the result reflected 
continued improvement in the trading 
environment in much of Continental 
Europe during the year, with an improved 
second-half performance in the UK as 
anticipated. The Asia region delivered 
strong, broad-based growth and continued 
to benefit from the opening of a regional 
distribution centre in Singapore in 2014, 
with our cable management and 
movement control products serving 
the electronics industry in south east Asia 
performing particularly well. Trading in the 
Americas was more challenging, although 
an underlying improvement in execution 
in the second half helped to mitigate a 
weakening market environment, notably 
in the oil & gas, agricultural and 
construction segments. 
1
 Before intangible amortisation and 
exceptional operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
15
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | DISTRIBUTION
OPERATIONAL REVIEW Complementing our core standard 
components business, we made 
encouraging progress in expanding our 
custom injection moulding activities 
during the year, with incremental revenue 
opportunities generated in a number 
of end-markets – in particular in the 
automotive sector.
New catalogues were launched in  
all three geographic regions, with the 
European and Asian versions featuring 
some 7 ,000 new products predominantly 
in springs and magnets. Our hardware 
range performed particularly strongly, 
benefiting from our investment in 
dedicated specialist sales resources and 
larger project wins in the transport and 
cabinet manufacturing sectors. Further 
to the rapid rebranding of Abric Seals to 
Essentra, approximately 300 security seals 
were additionally included in the core 
catalogues and – with greater focus on 
targeted end-markets – there have been 
some encouraging early business wins, 
notably in the airlines sector.
The successful site roll-out programme 
continued in 2015 with market entry into 
South Korea and Dubai – in both cases 
co-locating with existing Essentra facilities. 
To support the expansion, dedicated local 
websites and catalogues were introduced 
in each of these markets: in the former, 
c. 7 ,000 cable management samples are 
now available for same-day delivery 
to customers in our targeted electronics 
sector, while the latter’s product offer is 
particularly focused on pipe and flange 
components.
The result in Speciality Tapes was 
supported by an increase in the print 
finishing and industrial categories. 
Finger Lift tape continued to perform 
well, benefiting from the installation of 
high-speed aqueous coating equipment 
at the Chicago, US site which has 
broadened the range of adhesives and 
performance characteristics of the 
product offering: in conjunction with the 
business’ hot melt capability, this advance 
has helped to generate further commercial 
opportunities. Custom gaskets and sealing 
solutions also increased, with investment 
in die-cutting equipment helping to boost 
further business wins with a major 
multi-national white goods customer. 
From a geographical perspective, the 
result reflected a continued good 
performance from the Express footprint 
in North America. 
Adjusted operating profit grew 6.0% (6.8% 
at constant exchange) to £60.3m (at both 
constant and actual exchange) equating 
to a 90bps decline in the margin to 22.4%, 
largely due to the short-term dilutive 
impact of acquisitions. In addition, further 
benefits from the consolidation of the 
Components’ site footprint, together with 
raw material and operating efficiency 
savings were offset by increased marketing 
spend in the first half of the year.
Complemented by value-adding M&A
On 20 February, we announced that we 
had completed the acquisition of 
Specialty Plastics. Based in Perth, 
Australia, Specialty Plastics is a leading 
distributor of an extensive range of 
protective plastic products for a wide 
variety of attractive growth end-markets. 
Having fully integrated Specialty Plastics 
with our existing business in Sydney and 
introduced some 13,000 products onto 
the combined “.au” website, we are even 
better-positioned to serve both domestic 
and export customers with a rapid supply 
of essential components, in particular in 
the construction, specialist transport 
and oil & gas industries.
Improving operational excellence  
and efficiency
During the year, we opened two new, 
purpose-built facilities in Leduc, Canada 
and in Sydney. In the case of the former, 
Essentra Components’ customers can 
now select from nearly six million essential 
parts from our well-known general 
protection, cable management and 
MRO ranges, which are available in stock 
for rapid shipment: they can also benefit 
from free samples and CAD drawings. 
Meanwhile, the latter – which produced 
over 17 million parts and shipped more 
than 18,000 product lines in 2015 alone – 
secures domestic manufacturing 
capability and provides us with a strong 
foundation for ambitious growth in a 
targeted market, being supported by 
the afore mentioned Specialty Plastics 
transaction in western Australia and the 
expansion of our warehousing capabilities 
in our Asian regional hub of Singapore. 
Accordingly, both the investments 
underscore our ongoing commitment 
to providing our customers with even 
greater product choice and availability, 
combined with the best possible delivery 
and service proposition.
Reinforcing our manufacturing capability 
in 2015, we invested in the latest in plastic 
injection moulding equipment at our 
European hub in Kidlington to further 
enhance our production cycle time: we 
also installed a mezzanine level featuring 
spiral conveyors, which have allowed us 
to improve our “pick and pack” efficiency. 
In addition, we have taken the opportunity 
to automate certain manufacturing 
processes at the acquired security seals 
sites in Malaysia and Thailand, which 
has resulted in both productivity and 
labour savings. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
16
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | DISTRIBUTION 2016 key initiatives
 > Exploit new business opportunities  
in the automotive and white goods 
segments, for both standard and 
custom components
 > Improve Components performance 
in the Americas
 > Further leverage hardware capabilities 
with telecoms and power distribution 
customers
 > Continue to improve inventory 
management, to deliver additional 
net working capital savings
 > Leverage geographic capabilities  
into new markets to exploit growth 
opportunities, particularly in point  
of sale and retail categories
 > Extend Key Account Management  
in household and white goods sectors, 
to globalise success with multi-
national customers
 > Increase focus on key Industrial 
segments, such as electrical 
components and HVAC
Market trends
Given their very wide application, the 
global market for industrial components 
is large, fragmented and ill-defined for 
both suppliers and customers. However, 
management estimates the value of 
the available market for low-cost direct 
material components at c. £4.5bn pa.
Manufacturing GDP growth rate
With low-cost direct material components 
being used in a very broad spectrum of 
industrial end-markets, those countries 
with a higher manufacturing GDP growth 
rate are particularly attractive.
Increased use of standard components
There is an increasing move to small, 
specialised manufacturing businesses, 
which assemble their parts and equipment 
from a range of standard components. 
This approach provides them with 
flexibility, and the ability to move quickly 
to provide their own customers with 
the service they require.
Just-in-time delivery
As customers are required to deliver their 
own products “just-in-time”, so their 
demand for critical components from their 
suppliers is increasingly on the same basis.
Increasing labour costs
Standardised manufacturing processes 
and components typically require less 
labour, thereby helping customers reduce 
their cost base. There is also a trend 
among larger customers to design in 
“higher technology” markets such as the 
US, UK, Germany, Japan and Singapore, 
and then to manufacture in lower labour 
cost regions (eg, eastern Europe, China 
and India), which benefits components 
suppliers with global reach.
Industry specification
As end-markets become more 
sophisticated and demanding, so the 
requirement for higher-quality components 
increases. Over and above this more 
general trend, certain customers are 
increasingly facing regulatory guidelines 
in terms of the specification of the 
components they use.
Weight reduction
Increasing focus on fuel efficiency in the 
automotive industry is resulting in weight 
reduction targets and a trend of replacing 
metal components with plastic.
Growing functionality
Increased product sophistication, 
particularly in the automotive and white 
goods sectors, is resulting in growing 
demand for cable management solutions.
Key new product opportunities
 > Continue range expansion, to provide 
customers with the broadest selection 
of components
 > Develop new sectors for existing 
customer base, such as hardware
 > Globalise successful local products 
through established supply chain
 > Enter new and adjacent product 
markets, such as Point of Sale
 > Launch products which are compliant 
with new industry standards
What we measure
NUMBER OF ACTIVE CUSTOMERS
Why we measure it
Reflects marketing effectiveness and 
measures the potential population for 
further growth opportunities
How we have done
13.7% decrease in active customer accounts 
on the prior twelve months, reflecting 
continued consolidation of customer 
accounts due to the migration to a single 
Essentra brand
NET PROMOTER SCORE
Why we measure it
Reflects our customers’ overall satisfaction 
with our products and service, as well as 
loyalty to our brand
How we have done
A score of 30 compares to 29 in 2014
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet 
delivery demands
How we have done
88.3% compares to 85.4% in 2014
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
17
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | DISTRIBUTION Health & Personal 
Care Packaging
A leading global provider of specialist 
packaging and authentication 
solutions to a diversified blue-chip 
customer base.
Revenue 
2015: £394.4m 2014: £169.3m +133.0%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £52.2m 2014: £30.8m  +69.5%
Operating margin
1
 
2015: 13.2% 2014: 18.2% -500bps
Revenue per employee 
2015: £110.2k 2014: £128.1k -14.0%
Revenue by destination
(%)
Europe & Africa 62.3
Americas 34.1
Asia including Middle East 3.6
Revenue by end-market
(%)
Healthcare 72.7
Food & beverage 13.1
Tobacco 9.3
Paper, board & point of sale 3.5
Other 1.4
Who we are and what we do
A leading global provider of packaging 
and authentication solutions to a 
diversified blue-chip customer base in 
the pharmaceutical, health & personal 
care, consumer and specialist packaging 
sectors. The business focuses on delivering 
value-adding innovation, quality and 
service through the provision of a wide 
range of printed products and solutions, 
including cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, 
labels and authentication technologies.
Our product portfolio is led by our 
pharmaceutical, health and personal 
care offerings, positioned under the single 
Essentra brand throughout Europe and 
the Americas – and rapidly expanding in 
Asia. Our cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, 
labels and brand protection technologies 
can combine to provide a multi-functional 
product choice for our customers. 
Accordingly, our range of solutions helps 
to ensure that the consumer does not 
get frustrated by opening packs, and 
receives products that have been 
protected in transit, have not been 
tampered with and can be confirmed 
as genuine.
Supported by an in-house design studio, 
R&D and multi-million pound print 
facilities, Essentra is positioned to 
deliver the very best in quality, service 
and reliability through its worldwide 
manufacturing and sales structure.
How we do it
Our objective is to use our business 
development philosophy and resource 
to identify innovation opportunities 
and translate these into novel, workable 
solutions. We seek to leverage our  
well-invested, international footprint 
to provide market-leading quality and 
service on a global basis, and to add 
value to both customers and consumers.
Operating from manufacturing sites across 
Europe, the Americas and Asia, Essentra is 
a leading global supplier of a broad suite of 
innovative specialist secondary packaging 
and authentication solutions to meet  
the rapidly changing requirements of the 
pharmaceutical and health & personal care 
markets. Working in effective partnership 
with customers and strategic suppliers, 
Essentra is committed to quality, flexibility 
and creativity, and is well placed to meet 
the exacting needs of an international 
customer base.
In consumer packaging, Essentra is 
recognised as the leading manufacturer 
and supplier of pressure-sensitive tear tape, 
and a growing provider of other solutions 
such as cartons, labels, closures, seals, bags, 
sacks and commercial print. Essentra’s 
range not only provides functional 
advantages for packaged consumer goods, 
such as easy opening or resealability, but 
can also be used as a medium for carrying 
branding and communication messages or 
brand protection features, including overt, 
covert and forensic technologies.
How we performed in 2015
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 133.0% (140.6% at 
constant exchange) to £394.4m. Adjusting 
for the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD with 
effect from 30 January 2015, like-for-like 
growth was 2.3%; having been broadly flat 
at the half year stage, this FY 2015 outturn 
reflected an acceleration in the like-for-like 
performance in the second half, to 4.6%.
A strong result in the underlying health 
and personal care packaging business 
was boosted by new business wins, 
combined with the ongoing roll-out of 
the Company’s Key Account Management 
strategy to its global customer base. 
This was partially offset by tobacco tear 
tape, where market conditions remain 
challenging owing to the ongoing trend 
of removing value-added features.
2015 was another positive year for 
packaging innovation and the further 
commercialisation of recently launched 
products. In the healthcare sector, we 
introduced serialised cartons to help 
1
 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional 
operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
18
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING customers ensure they are well placed 
to meet the rapidly evolving legislative 
requirements in respect of tracking, 
tracing and authenticating their products 
throughout the supply chain. In addition, 
to provide further layers of protection 
in the fight against counterfeit 
pharmaceutical and healthcare products, 
we continued to leverage our brand 
protection capabilities through the launch 
of fibre-tear labels, which cause irreversible 
damage to a product carton upon 
removal, allowing consumers to easily 
identify if packaging has been interfered 
with and, thus, providing a crucial 
tamper-evidence function. 
In consumer packaging, our AquaSense™ 
label, launched in 2014 and being the  
first example of Essentra’s Active Label 
Technology (which controls humidity  
and reduces product waste due to goods 
drying out), was further commercialised; 
we also achieved very good success with 
our broader range of “freshness” labels, 
particularly in the tobacco sector for both 
cigarettes and roll your own products. 
Adjusted operating profit increased 69.5% 
(70.9% at constant exchange) to £52.2m. 
The 500bps decline (-540bps at constant 
exchange) in the margin was largely due 
to the significantly dilutive initial impact  
of the Clondalkin SPD business (being less 
than 10% on acquisition), together with 
the mix effect of the decline in value-
added tear tape in the tobacco category.
Complemented by value-creating M&A
Having successfully completed the 
Clondalkin SPD transaction for US$455m 
in January, action was taken to rapidly 
integrate the acquired activities into 
Essentra’s underlying business. As such,  
at the HY 2015 results stage, we increased 
our cost synergy target by 50% versus 
our ingoing expectation to US$24m, and  
we are on track to deliver these on an 
annualised basis from 2016. In addition, 
during the acquisition process, certain  
lines of business were identified which  
were not consistent with Essentra’s  
return and profitability metrics and  
value-creation objectives; in this respect, 
progress is already being made to address 
such less attractive activities to underpin the 
margin expansion already entailed by the 
synergy target. Accordingly, the integration 
of Clondalkin SPD to date is in line with 
expectations, with the operating margin 
up by over 250bps and returns progressing 
towards the Company’s previously 
communicated acquisition objectives.
In healthcare, the resulting expansion in 
our footprint – combined with the breadth 
of range and capabilities which we can 
collectively offer – has already elevated the 
dialogue which we are able to have with 
multi-national customers and expanded 
the potential commercial opportunities. 
At the same time, our increased scale 
catalysed a review of our tendering and 
onboarding processes, such that our 
revised procedures now better reflect the 
requirements of a global leading player 
with a more complex operational footprint. 
Meanwhile, in beauty and personal care 
– where Clondalkin SPD materially 
expanded our market presence – we are 
already seeing the benefits of a more 
comprehensive product offering and a 
reinvigorated go-to-market campaign 
behind a single Essentra brand which 
has been duly positioned to reflect the 
aesthetic demands of this sector, over 
and above the practical requirements of 
packaging. This is particularly resonant 
given our combined expertise in 
sophisticated printing capabilities and 
tactile labels and cartons. As such, while 
revenue opportunities are typically slower 
to realise in health and personal care 
packaging than in other end-markets in 
which we operate – not least owing to 
regulatory considerations and customer 
quality standards – we have made a 
positive start since completion. Meanwhile, 
in consumer packaging, we have won 
some exciting new business which has 
arguably benefited from the expanded 
Essentra Group capabilities, not least a 
sizeable contract with a well-known 
foodservice brand. 
Subsequently, on 16 October, we  
announced that we had signed an 
agreement to acquire the pharmaceutical 
packaging assets of Kamsri. Based in 
Bangalore, Kamsri is a leading manufacturer 
of premium packaging solutions for the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare end-
markets in India. Indeed, with a highly 
complementary product range, Kamsri 
provides Essentra with an entry point into 
these attractive industries in India, thereby 
reinforcing our global packaging capabilities 
and enhancing the opportunities for our 
customers. As anticipated, the acquisition 
completed shortly after year-end, with the 
assets already being transferred to our 
dedicated pharmaceutical-capable 
manufacturing facility, also in Bangalore.
Improving operational excellence  
and efficiency
During the year, we continued to invest 
in equipment and our site footprint, 
both to underpin future revenue growth 
opportunities as well as to generate 
further operational efficiencies. To support 
the afore mentioned launch of serialised 
cartons, we installed additional equipment 
and technology which enable us to operate 
to the required degree of complexity entailed 
in printing unique data, as well as capturing 
the huge volume of resulting information in 
an appropriately robust manner to ensure 
regulatory compliance. We also added to our 
digital capability, to allow us to print smaller 
runs in a more cost-effective and expeditious 
manner; with the new printer able to 
accommodate sophisticated tactile finishes 
and varnish effects, we are now even better 
placed to provide our customers with a rapid 
and flexible service. In addition, we invested 
in six further carton and leaflet presses, 
which have not only increased our capacity 
but also improved both manufacturing 
efficiency and product quality.
Key to the delivery of the targeted synergy 
savings from the Clondalkin SPD acquisition 
is the consolidation of our combined site 
footprint. Further to the completion of the 
transaction, we closed the Portland and 
Evansville facilities in the US and transferred 
the activities to Moorestown and Charlotte 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
19
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING respectively. Meanwhile, in Ireland, the 
activities at Swiftbrook and Cherry Orchard 
were folded into Essentra’s existing Dublin 
healthcare site, while the consumer 
packaging operations at Denekamp in 
the Netherlands are in the process of 
being absorbed by the Leeuwarden site. 
However, it is the UK which has presented 
the greatest operational complexity, 
where we have shut – or are in the process 
of shutting – four sites. The business 
from these facilities has been / is being 
transitioned to a new, state-of-the-art 
operation in Newport, adjacent to our 
existing site which was officially opened 
at the end of 2014. The investment in this 
second location will entail a six-fold increase 
in our existing footprint and see Newport 
become a centre of excellence for labels 
and foil production, with additional 
capability for cartons manufacturing. 
Consistent with our Group target, eleven 
Clondalkin SPD sites gained accreditation 
to ISO 50001 during the year .
2016 key initiatives
 > Grow market share and build global 
Key Account Management, to increase 
customer relevance
 > Continue to address less attractive 
acquired activities, to support balanced, 
profitable growth objective
 > Deliver creativity in market-led product 
development and leverage in-house 
design expertise
 > Scale production in North America, 
particularly in beauty, blister foils and 
tamper-evident solutions
 > Expand offering in India, further to the 
acquisition of Kamsri
 > Launch global Quality Management 
System, to ensure alignment of 
standards around the world
Market trends
Management estimates the value of the 
global market addressable for specialist 
secondary health and personal care 
packaging and pressure sensitive tear tapes 
at c. £10bn, growing at a low to mid 
single-digit level depending on the 
end-markets served.
Increasing consumer communication
Packaging is increasingly used to 
communicate brand messages, and to 
engage with consumers via promotions  
or competitions.
Functionality and convenience  
of packaging
There is a growing demand for packaging 
which not only offers optimum product 
protection, but is also easy for consumers 
to access without frustration.
Brand and identity protection  
and verification
Brand owners have a continued need to 
protect their assets from counterfeiters, 
while public and private organisations 
require secure identification of individuals.
Legislation
Increasing regulatory requirements, such as 
the European Falsified Medicines Directive, 
are driving demand for tamper-evident 
packaging, while the more standardised 
pack requirements of the EU Tobacco 
Products Directive potentially limit the 
scope for innovative solutions.
Sustainability and waste reduction
There is a growing need for packaging to 
be resealable so as to maintain freshness 
and reduce waste, as well as to have a 
lower environmental impact.
Provision of total solutions
Customers are increasingly seeking a 
partner which can deliver a complete 
offering – from design to end-supply – 
as well as individual products capable 
of providing multiple pack benefits.
Key new product opportunities
 > Investment in technology, to develop 
novel, value-added packaging and 
brand protection solutions
 > Functional packaging benefits, such as 
opening, closing and tamper evidence
 > Eco-friendly packaging solutions, such 
as closing and resealing
 > Creative and secure design solutions to 
provide enhanced communication and 
authentication opportunities
What we measure
INNOVATION – PERCENTAGE OF SALES 
DERIVED FROM RECENTLY DEVELOPED 
PRODUCTS
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the success of new products 
and technologies
How we have done
8.3% of revenue generated from products 
launched in the last three years, reflecting 
the impact of the acquisition of 
Clondalkin SPD
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems 
and service delivery
How we have done
92.9% compares to 94.4% in 2014, 
reflecting the impact of the acquisition 
of Clondalkin SPD
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION – CUSTOMER 
COMPLAINTS
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems 
and performance delivery
How we have done
65.0% increase in complaints from 2014, 
reflecting the impact of the acquisition 
of Clondalkin SPD
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
20
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING Filter Products
The only global independent provider 
of filters and related solutions to the 
tobacco industry.
Revenue 
2015: £302.6m 2014: £291.5m +3.8%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £55.4m 2014: £39.0m +42.1%
Operating margin
1
 
2015: 18.3% 2014: 13.4% +490bps
Revenue per employee 
2015: £175.6k 2014: £168.3k +4.3%
Revenue by destination
(%)
Europe & Africa 39.7
Asia including Middle East 39.0
Americas 21.3
Sales volume by type
(%)
Monoacetate 43.5
Other special 38.0
Carbon 13.0
Flavour 5.5
Who we are and what we do
Our Filter Products business unit is the only 
global independent supplier of filters. Not 
only do we manufacture standard filters, 
but as the leading supplier of special filters 
we also provide innovative solutions that 
meet the consumer-driven demands of 
the tobacco industry against a backdrop 
of ongoing legislative changes. In addition, 
our offering extends to nicotine delivery 
solutions, where we have a number of 
fully-functional and packaged e-cigarette 
products, which draw upon the broad 
range of solutions which the entire 
Essentra Group can deliver.
We also increasingly provide adjacent 
services to the tobacco industry. Our 
Scientific Services facility located in the UK 
was one of the first independent, externally 
accredited laboratories for the testing of 
cigarettes, cigarette filters, smokeless 
devices (including e-cigarettes) and low 
ignition propensity (“LIP”) for cigarette 
papers, and has over 20 years’ experience 
of providing analytical services to state 
monopolies, and both independent and 
multi-national customers. Additionally, 
we offer a full bespoke range for the 
design, packing and packaging of filters for 
roll your own brands, providing an efficient 
and cost-effective solution to delivering 
retail-ready products to the market.
The Filter Products business unit supplies 
over 700 product specifications to c. 300 
customers, including all the multi-national 
tobacco companies. We have eight 
manufacturing facilities in seven countries, 
supported by a dedicated research facility 
and three regional development centres.
How we do it
Innovation is at the heart of our 
business, and our objective is to 
develop value-creating partnerships with 
our customers. We seek to leverage our 
long-standing experience, expertise and 
insight to provide brand differentiation 
and identity solutions, as well as excellence 
in both manufacturing and service. 
Our recognised ability to provide new 
value-added products and services is 
key to the future growth of our business, 
as market dynamics in the tobacco 
industry continue to evolve.
Research in filters is carried out at a 
dedicated Technology Centre, supported 
by three regional development facilities. 
Together, they work closely with 
customers to understand their specific 
needs, and strive to deliver innovative 
solutions which will give their brands 
differentiation and relevance, at a pace 
appropriate to local market conditions 
and legislative requirements. Our 
offering is further enhanced by our 
ability to complement our customers’ 
own strengths and assets in a variety 
of tolling, or outsourced management, 
relationship arrangements, as well as 
our growing adjacent services activities.
We continuously upgrade our technology 
and footprint, to ensure we exceed our 
customers’ expectations and remain at 
the forefront of market trends. Our flexible 
global manufacturing capability allows 
us to respond rapidly to market changes 
and customer demand for surge volumes, 
while a consistent focus on high standards 
of quality, cost control and production 
efficiency act as further sources of 
competitive advantage. 
1
 Before intangible amortisation  
and exceptional operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
21
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS How we performed in 2015
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
Revenue increased 3.8% (3.0% at constant 
exchange) to £302.6m. Underlying volumes 
were ahead of the prior year, with a 
particularly good result in both special and 
non-standard diameter filters (eg, Slims).
In FY 2015, Asia accounted for 61% volumes 
(FY 2014: 60%) . While China and India were 
both more challenging (owing to short-term 
inventory destocking and substantial tax 
increases respectively), our Indonesian and 
Dubai JV businesses delivered particularly 
strong underlying growth. In addition, our 
Thai facility supported the successful 
commercialisation of a bespoke innovative 
special filter under a long-term agreement 
with a multi-national customer, although 
this did not fully compensate for the 
impact of a sizeable contract in Europe 
which is starting to mature. 
Building on our track record of successful 
innovation, a number of new products 
and development initiatives were 
launched during the year. Among these 
was the Super Slim Corinthian, a filter 
which provides a distinctive flute 
definition to give a unique consumer 
experience and – as a multi-segment 
filter – can be combined with carbon, 
flavour, coloured acetate tow or a 
recess, to offer numerous possibilities 
for visualisation and brand differentiation. 
We also supported our customers with 
bespoke solutions tailored to their specific 
needs; these included innovative tube 
and dual- / triple-segment filters (certain 
of which incorporating flavour capsules), 
more environmentally friendly roll your 
own products – combining our Ochre filter 
tip with our unique, degradable plugwrap 
material – and the introduction of 
demi- and micro-slim filters to further 
leverage our know-how in the fast-growing 
“non-standard diameter” segment. As 
a result, joint development activity 
increased 8% versus FY 2014.
Our Scientific Services unit continued 
to perform well, further building on its 
extensive experience and expanded range 
of accredited testing methods. During the 
year, a new facility dedicated exclusively 
to the testing of e-cigarettes was added 
to the existing analytical laboratory 
services, to ensure the delivery of 
high-quality analysis which remains at the 
forefront of industry trends and regulatory 
requirements in this growing segment. 
In addition, we won new business for 
the testing of ignition propensity, and 
successfully renewed our three-year 
contract with the UK government for 
the testing of all cigarette brands.
Adjusted operating profit rose 42.1% 
(43.2% at constant exchange) to £55.4m, 
equating to a 490bps improvement 
(+510bps at constant exchange) in the 
margin to 18.3%. This uplift was driven by 
a further improvement in productivity and 
efficiency initiatives, together with a full 
year benefit of savings from the closure 
of our site in Italy in 2014. The margin was 
further boosted by a favourable product 
mix and raw material procurement 
savings, although the certainty of 
maintaining either or both of these 
positive factors cannot be assured.
Improving operational excellence  
and efficiency
In order to ensure that we continue 
to deliver value, we are committed to 
maintaining a flexible and competitive 
geographic footprint. With our customers 
continuing to shift their production from 
western to eastern Europe and Asia, 
we took the decision to transfer our filter 
manufacturing, product development 
and innovation activities based in Jarrow, 
UK to our facility in Hungary, and as a 
consequence we closed the Bedesway  
site at the end of the year.
In 2015, we also continued our investment 
in modern, high-speed combining 
equipment to underpin our objective 
of improving capability and capacity – 
notably in our Hungarian and Thai facilities 
– to ensure we remain optimally positioned 
to meet the exacting requirements of our 
international customer base.
2016 key initiatives
 > Continue to align geographic footprint 
with market shift in production volume
 > Further increase innovation in special 
filters to capture growing demand, 
particularly in Asia and the Middle East
 > Improve value proposition in more 
competitive mature markets
 > Maintain focus on delivering further 
quality and productivity improvements
 > Leverage further benefits from 
investment in high-speed, more  
flexible equipment
Market trends
The global tobacco market is valued at  
c. US$810bn, with broadly flat cigarette 
retail volume growth.
Regulation
The tobacco industry is heavily regulated 
around the world on health grounds, with 
significant restrictions on the way in which 
products can be marketed to consumers. 
Legislation continues to evolve, both 
in respect of traditional cigarettes and 
innovations such as e-cigarettes, as well 
as surrounding the testing and packaging 
requirements for these products.
Illicit trade
Counterfeiting of tobacco products is 
a significant and increasing challenge 
for the industry, undermining brand value, 
presenting a risk to consumers from low 
quality goods and reducing tax revenues. 
The illicit trade accounts for approximately 
11% of duty-paid cigarette volumes and 
is estimated to be growing at c. 9% pa – 
well ahead of the overall industry.
“Beyond tobacco” products
The market for products beyond traditional 
cigarettes continues to evolve rapidly. There 
is increased interest in other nicotine delivery 
mechanisms which offer “heat not burn” , 
in particular in e-cigarettes which are 
reportedly delivering rapid growth (albeit 
from a low base) and which are forecast 
to continue doing so.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
22
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS East versus west
Accounting for over 70% of total world 
cigarette volume, the growth markets of 
Asia dominate the global tobacco industry 
and are forecast to continue to increase.
Consumer engagement
As per capita income rises – particularly in 
eastern markets – so lifestyles change and 
new segments are created, with different 
consumer expectations and aspirations 
from the products which they purchase. 
As such, there is an increasing demand 
for new products to reflect these changes.
Consumer need
Consumers are increasingly concerned 
with environmental matters, such as 
sustainability and pollution, and the 
impact of products which they purchase. 
Such needs are often unspoken but 
create challenges for the industry to 
supply products which address such 
considerations.
Cost and price
As the price of cigarettes has continued 
to increase, growth opportunities have 
been created for other industry segments 
including roll your own and Other Tobacco 
Products, such as chewing tobacco.
Key new product opportunities
 > Lifestyle solutions (eg, Slims / Super 
Slims, low / ultra-low tar, “eco” ranges)
 > Brand-specific requirements, such  
as recessed filters
 > Enhanced user experience, such  
as capsules, flavoured thread and 
activated carbon
 > Full bespoke service for roll your  
own brands
 > Provision of scientific services
 > Adjacent sectors, such as e-cigarettes 
and “heat not burn” products 
What we measure
CONVERSION COSTS AS A PERCENTAGE 
OF REVENUE
Why we measure it
Continued focus delivers financial 
performance
How we have done
21.1%, a 510bps improvement from 26.2% 
in 2014
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet  
delivery demands
How we have done
92.9% compares to 92.4% in 2014
QUALITY COMPLAINTS PER  
BILLION RODS
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient  
use of material
How we have done
4.9 complaints per billion rods, an  
increase from 3.8 in 2014
WASTE
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient  
use of material
How we have done
6.8%, a slight increase from 6.7% in 2014
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
23
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Specialist 
Technologies
A leading provider of specialised 
solutions to an international customer 
base in a wide range of end-markets.
Revenue 
2015: £135.5m 2014: £162.1m -16.4%
Operating profit
1
 
2015: £19.8m 2014: £29.8m  -33.6%
Operating margin
1
 
2015: 14.6% 2014: 18.4% -380bps
Revenue per employee 
2015: £148.7k 2014: £158.6k -6.2%
Revenue by destination
(%)
Americas 50.1
Europe & Africa 34.4
Asia including Middle East 15.5
Revenue by end-market
(%)
Writing instruments 20.3
Healthcare 18.2
Clean room 14.8
Oil & gas 12.7
Construction 7.9
Household 7.4
Printer systems 5.7
Other 13.0
Who we are and what we do
Our Specialist Technologies business unit is 
a leading provider of specialised solutions 
to an international customer base in a 
wide range of end-markets, including oil 
& gas, construction, point of sale, health 
& personal care and consumer goods.
Essentra Porous Technologies is a leading 
developer and manufacturer of custom 
fluid-handling components, engineered 
from a portfolio of technologies that 
includes bonded and non-woven fibre, 
polyurethane foam and porous plastics. 
Representing innovations used in 
healthcare, consumer and industrial 
applications, its enabling components 
are found in a wide range of products 
from medical diagnostics tests to 
advanced wound care pads, inkjet printer 
cartridges, writing instruments, clean 
room wipes and air fresheners.
The Pipe Protection Technologies (“PPT”) 
business specialises in the manufacture 
of high-performance innovative products 
from commodity resins to engineering-
grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys 
for use in a range of end-markets. 
Locations in four countries, combined 
with a wide distributor network, serve 
customers around the world.
Essentra Extrusion is a leading custom 
profile extruder located in the Netherlands, 
which offers a complete design and 
production service. One of the first 
companies to extrude plastics in 1956, 
Essentra is now one of Europe’s most 
advanced suppliers of co-extrusion and 
tri-extrusion to all branches of industry.
How we do it
In Porous Technologies, our objective 
is to leverage our technical expertise in 
collaboration with our customers, to 
provide them with innovative, high-quality, 
reliable, quick-to-market solutions to their 
respective fluid- and vapour-handling 
challenges. Our R&D teams focus on 
each of our three material technologies 
and constantly develop new intellectual 
property regarding materials, processes 
and applications, with a view to 
providing new and existing customers 
with unique solutions.
As a global leading supplier to the oil & gas 
sectors, our PPT business provides the 
broadest range of custom thread and pipe 
protection products for a complete range 
of OCTG tubulars, line pipe and drilling pipe 
applications. Our objective is to leverage our 
state-of-the-art manufacturing footprint 
headquartered in Houston, US, to meet 
global demand while ensuring adherence 
to the latest industry regulations.
Offering a full range of value-added 
design and production services, Essentra 
Extrusion is well placed to provide 
purpose-developed products based on 
unique specifications. Our objective is to 
leverage our extensive in-house capabilities 
– including a laboratory, R&D department 
and tooling expertise – to partner with 
customers from the earliest stages of new 
product development and provide them 
with a compelling value proposition, no 
matter how complex the finished product.
How we performed in 2015
Revenue decreased 16.4% (-18.0% at 
constant exchange) to £135.5m, driven 
predominantly by the impact of weakness 
in the oil & gas industry on the PPT 
business. Excluding PPT, revenue was 
ahead 2.4% (1.7% at constant exchange) 
to £118.4m.
In Porous Technologies, the result was 
supported by new contract awards, the 
commercialisation of recent product 
innovation and geographic expansion. 
The increase in healthcare benefited from 
further developments in advanced wound 
care, as well as strong growth in cosmetic 
foam and products using porous plastics. 
Further distribution channel and range 
expansion, and line extensions boosted 
speciality wipes, while household benefited 
from further development and scaling 
up of both reed and porous plastic  
1
 Before intangible amortisation  
and exceptional operating items
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
24
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES aircare wicks. In writing instruments,  
the performance was underpinned by 
continued portfolio expansion in nibs 
to both current and new customers. 
The result in printer systems reflected an 
accelerating decline in the market, where 
conditions are increasingly challenging 
and in light of which a strategic review of 
Essentra’s Porous Technologies’ footprint 
has been initiated. 
In 2015, the business continued its track 
record of converting its intellectual 
property into commercial success. This 
included new contract wins for infused 
antimicrobial advanced wound care foam 
to provide enhanced infection prevention / 
control to address this growing market 
trend, and the development of new 
insecticide and innovative air freshener 
wick opportunities. Further progress was 
made with our filtration components: in 
India, we launched our first product for 
sediment removal into the residential water 
filtration segment as well as an automotive 
paint filter, with encouraging early results 
also being delivered for our water and 
diesel components in Europe, the US and 
India. At the same time, the patented 
reservoir technology which was initially 
developed in 2014 to support the Essentra 
Group’s commercialisation of a range of 
nicotine delivery solutions was further 
refined for even better performance. 
Like-for-like revenue in PPT declined 
64.9% to £17 .1m owing to developments 
in the oil & gas sector, with a significant 
decline in the North American rig count 
driving a consequent reduction in drilling 
activity and demand from the pipe mills. 
Notwithstanding this challenging 
backdrop, our MaxX
®
 range of American 
Petroleum Institute-compliant, premium 
thread and API standard thread protectors 
– which come in both standard and liftable 
versions – performed well, benefiting from 
being specified by certain large customers 
as their product of choice. In addition, 
the business expanded and reinforced its 
geographic footprint outside the US, 
successfully leveraging the Essentra 
Group’s international network. In Asia, 
a drill pipe thread protector line was 
stocked for the first time at our regional 
hub warehouse in Singapore as well as 
in Australia, with the MaxX
®
 and Mega™ 
ranges also being launched in Saudi 
Arabia. Meanwhile, the result in the 
Americas benefited from a new business 
win in Brazil with an international 
customer, thanks to our continued 
investment in regional product  
availability at our facility in Paraguay. 
Further new contract wins, combined 
with more encouraging market conditions, 
drove a strong result in Extrusion, with 
particular success in more complex, 
technical extruded components. These 
included plastic profiles used in the 
purification of drinking and processed 
water in both municipal and industrial 
installations; extruded finishing parts  
used in the furniture sector, such as  
plinths and edge bands, where additional 
business was won with a major multi-
national retailer during the year; and in 
construction across a range of internal 
and external applications.
Adjusted operating profit decreased 
33.6% (-36.1% at constant exchange) 
to £19 .8m and the margin declined by 
380bps (-410bps at constant exchange) . An 
improvement in Extrusion – which benefited 
from more benign raw material costs and 
continued efficiency programmes – was 
offset by the impact of the decline in 
revenue in the higher margin PPT and 
Porous Technologies’ printer systems 
businesses, notwithstanding rapid cost 
and headcount reduction.
Investing in operational excellence  
and execution
A number of operational initiatives were 
successfully completed during the year. 
In Porous Technologies, writing instrument 
nib production was transferred from 
Korea to a state-of-the-art manufacturing 
facility in Indonesia which – together with 
investment in additional high-speed ink 
reservoir capacity in both India and China 
– will allow us to serve our global customer 
base even better with a full technology 
platform, as well as reduce the cost base. 
In addition, to support future growth in 
the attractive healthcare sector, we added 
a further pregnancy test wick line at our 
Ningbo, China facility to meet rising 
demand for these essential diagnostic 
components. 
In Extrusion, we installed innovative, 
high-speed equipment at our facility 
in Buitenpost, the Netherlands, which 
allows us to manufacture significantly 
larger profiles than before. As a result, 
we are now better positioned to exploit 
new business opportunities, particularly 
in the construction sector. In addition, we 
installed a second line for the production 
of high-quality profiles incorporating foil 
application: such products are typically 
used in kitchens, with the further 
investment in our capability meaning that 
we are well-placed to continue to support 
the requirements of our blue-chip 
customer base. 
In PPT, we continued to invest in 
technology for large capacity, energy 
efficient injection presses, as well as 
developed the latest in part moulding 
tooling, utilising multi-cavity moulds that 
can produce up to 16 parts per moulding 
cycle. These advances have helped to 
ensure consistent product quality while 
reducing cost. In addition, we added 
robotics and automated parts handling 
systems to over 60% of our presses, 
resulting in further improvements in 
quality and labour cost savings. 
During the year, we also completed 
an infrastructure build-out and total 
refurbishment of our former injection 
moulding activities into a centre to 
accommodate an expanded CNC threading 
plant in Houston, such that we are now one 
of the few thread protector manufacturers 
globally to offer our customers two 
separate facilities for product moulding 
and high-speed product threading 
capabilities. Finally, we installed automated 
computerised indexing tool and mould 
storage systems in our dedicated fireproof 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
25
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES storage room, to provide a more secure 
environment for our high-value tools and 
moulds which are the foundation of our 
capability to manufacture the broadest 
range of thread protection products in the 
industry. As a result of these investments in 
our manufacturing efficiency, we are even 
better placed to provide our customers with 
competitively priced products, combined 
with excellent delivery and service levels. 
Accordingly, these advances help to ensure 
that the business is optimally positioned 
for a recovery in the oil & gas industry.
Separately, we consolidated our presence 
on the west coast of Canada, with the 
opening of a new 23,000ft
2
 facility in Leduc, 
strategically located in the heart of the 
Alberta oil patch and accommodating both 
our PPT and Components ranges. This new 
distribution centre provides the necessary 
space to continue the rapid expansion of our 
offering to this important market, where our 
PPT range includes the Tector Plus® series of 
thread protectors, a heavier closed-end 
product designed specifically to meet the 
requirements of the Canadian market, 
providing protection from environmental 
elements as well as easy handling. 
2016 key initiatives
 > Continued range and geographic 
expansion to drive growth 
opportunities in speciality wipes
 > Further development of antimicrobial 
wound care foam and medical 
components to meet growing need 
for infection prevention and control
 > Drive writing instrument nib 
conversion of global customer base, 
leveraging capabilities in fibre, acrylic 
and porous plastics
 > Continue to manage PPT cost base 
effectively, to contain the financial 
impact of the ongoing challenging 
environment in the oil & gas industry
 > Expand further in technical extruded 
plastic profiles, and identify additional 
cross-selling opportunities through 
leveraging the Group’s Key Account 
Management strategy
Porous Technologies
Market trends
Management estimates the global 
addressable market for our porous 
technologies products at around £1.2bn, 
with low to high single-digit growth. The 
underlying growth rates and key trends 
vary depending on the end-market served 
and the respective fluid- or vapour-
handling challenge being addressed.
Printing systems: platform extension 
and performance improvements
Customers continue to introduce new 
platforms, as well as enhance the 
performance of their products (such  
as through the use of increasingly  
complex inks).
Healthcare: infection prevention / 
control, enhanced fluid-handling 
capabilities and changing customer / 
patient needs
Infection prevention and control is 
increasingly a critical requirement, 
prompting the development of 
antimicrobial components.
Market growth is also partly driven by the 
migration from slower and more expensive 
laboratory-based testing to results being 
provided at the point of care.
In addition, a globally ageing population is 
resulting in a change in the incidence of 
medical conditions (such as diabetes) which 
require advanced wound care products. 
Household and personal care: emerging 
market growth and “lifestyle” trends
Consumers are increasingly transitioning 
to more sophisticated household and 
personal care products. In addition, 
insecticide products continue to evolve 
from solvent to water-based systems.
Non-woven products: growing 
requirement for sensitive environments
Industries such as electronics operate in 
controlled environments, while others 
(eg, hospitals) have a requirement for clean 
room conditions to combat infection and / 
or contamination risk. Such controlled 
environments are increasingly being 
adopted as best practice on a global basis.
Writing instruments: range expansion
Customers are increasingly looking for 
a total solutions provider – from ink 
reservoirs to nibs.
Key new product opportunities
 > Improved technologies to further 
enhance fluid- and vapour-handling 
capability
 > Additional technology platforms,  
to take advantage of new end- 
market opportunities
 > Further range expansion
 > Investment in faster-growing product 
end-markets, such as medical
 > Continued focus on  
customer partnerships
What we measure
INNOVATION – PERCENTAGE OF SALES 
DERIVED FROM NEW PRODUCTS
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the success of new products 
and technologies
How we have done
12.9% of revenue generated from products 
launched in the last three years
SUSTAINED IP DEVELOPMENT
Why we measure it
Continued development of intellectual 
property to support future growth and 
strong development project pipeline
 
How we have done
Currently 34 (2014: 38) patents in force in the 
US, with 10 (2014: 10) applications pending
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
Why we measure it
Drives performance of quality systems and 
service delivery
How we have done
57 complaints, being a 29.6% decrease 
versus 2014
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
26
STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES MAN HOURS PER MACHINE HOUR
Why we measure it
Indicative of shop floor productivity
How we have done
1.85 (2014: 1.73) man hours per machine hour
Pipe Protection Technologies
Market trends
The global oil and gas market is prone to 
volatility in supply, with the consequent 
fluctuations in energy prices having an 
impact on the level of drilling activity and 
rig count. 
Evolving oil and gas  
production techniques
Over the cycle, the significant increase 
in shale gas and oil will result in the 
development of more efficient drilling rigs 
and the adoption of new technologies, 
which benefit suppliers with the ability 
to invest in supporting industry growth.
Industry specification
As end-markets become more sophisticated 
and demanding, so the requirement for 
higher quality components increases. 
Over and above this more general trend, 
customers are increasingly facing regulatory 
guidelines in terms of the specification of 
the components they use.
Cost
Continued customer focus on their cost 
base benefits suppliers with a broad 
product offering across price points and 
the ability to invest in more efficient 
equipment and manufacturing processes.
Key new product opportunities
 > Continue to invest in state-of-the-art 
manufacturing capability and further 
capacity, to meet industry demands
 > Launch products which are compliant 
with new industry standards
 > Leverage new product development 
expertise, to provide customers with 
the most comprehensive and 
cost-competitive range
What we measure
SALES PER MACHINE HOUR
Why we measure it
Indicative of business mix and productivity
How we have done
6.0% decrease in sales per machine hour, 
reflecting the slowdown in the oil & gas 
industry
NEW CUSTOMERS ADDED
Why we measure it
Reflects our ability to successfully target 
new growth opportunities
How we have done
85 compares to 67 in 2014
ON TIME IN FULL
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to meet 
delivery demands
How we have done
94.6% compares to 91.0% in 2014
Extrusion
Market trends
Management estimates the global 
addressable market for extruded plastic 
products at around EUR 400m, with low 
to high single-digit growth. The underlying 
growth rates and key trends vary 
depending on the end-market served and 
the respective solution being provided.
Increased demand for fully-engineered 
and rapid solutions
Customers are increasingly seeking more 
sophisticated and bespoke solutions to 
their needs, which typically require more 
value-added equipment and a more 
technically-educated workforce. In 
addition, with solutions required ever more 
rapidly, the ability to provide prototype 
tooling (for example, through the use of 3D 
printing), as well as to integrate the design 
and manufacturing process, is becoming 
more important.
Practicality and reliability
In many end-markets, particularly in 
construction and furniture, the use of 
plastic is increasingly displacing more 
traditional materials (such as wood and 
metal), in a wide variety of applications – 
from finishing to protection, and 
for interiors and exteriors alike.
Regulatory requirements 
and sustainability
As regulation evolves and sustainability 
concerns increase, so there is a growing 
demand for products which use more 
environmentally-friendly, non-PVC 
raw materials.
Key new product opportunities
 > Continue to invest in high value-added 
tooling and design capabilities, to meet 
demand for technical and efficient 
high-end profile solutions and reduce 
lead times
 > Actively outsource tools where 
appropriate, to provide greater 
capacity flexibility
 > Investigate alternative suppliers and / 
or raw materials to meet regulatory / 
sustainability requirements and 
customer need
What we measure
NEW CUSTOMERS WON FROM 
MADE QUOTES
Why we measure it
Demonstrates the ability to translate 
quotes into revenue-generating 
opportunities
How we have done
18% compares to 12% in 2014
WASTE
Why we measure it
Drives productivity and the efficient use 
of materials
How we have done
15.5%, an improvement from 16.6% 
in 2014
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
27
OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES Summary growth in revenue by Region (by destination)
% growth Like-for-like Acquisitions / disposals Foreign exchange Total reported
Europe +6.3 +25.1 -6.5 +24.9
Americas -9.2 +44.7 +7.4 +42.9
Asia +2.8 +1.4 +2.8 +7.0
Total Company +0.7 +26.6 -0.5 +26.8
PPT -64.9 – +1.8 -63.1
Total ex-PPT +4.6 +28.2 -0.9 +31.9
Europe ex-PPT +6.5 +25.2 -6.6 +25.1
Americas ex-PPT +2.6 +53.9 +8.7 +65.2
Europe 
£m
% growth 
Actual exchange
% growth 
Constant exchange
Revenue 547.7 +24.9 +31.4
Revenue ex-PPT 546.7 +25.1 +31.7
Revenue increased 24.9% (31.4% at constant exchange) to £547 .7m, with like-for-like growth of 6.3% (+6.5% ex-PPT).
Underlying growth was driven by a strong performance in the industrial, furniture and health & personal care categories, supported 
by tobacco and food & drink. Metal hardware delivered a strong result in both existing and export industrial markets, with range 
extensions and early success in custom injection moulding also contributing. Enhanced project conversion, new business wins and 
cross-selling opportunities for extruded plastics boosted the result in the furniture segment, while innovative labels and tapes 
contributed to the increase in FMCG sectors. 
In health & personal care, there was good growth in speciality wipes, advanced wound care and noise protection porous components, 
as well as in the core packaging portfolio which was supported by new product launches – including authentication solutions – which 
are well placed to meet evolving regulatory requirements. 
The performance of the Clondalkin SPD business was in line with expectations, with efforts already under way to address less 
profitable activities. Substantial progress was made in rationalising the site footprint, with seven sites already – or in the process 
of being – closed. 
Over and above this acquisition integration activity, an additional four facilities were shut during the year and transitioned to existing 
Essentra operations in the region.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
28
STRATEGIC REPORT | REGIONAL REVIEW
REGIONAL REVIEW Americas
£m
% growth 
Actual exchange
% growth 
Constant exchange
Revenue 371.6 +42.9 +35.5
Revenue ex-PPT 355.5 +65.2 +56.5
 
Revenue increased 42.9% (35.5% at constant exchange) to £371.6m: like-for-like revenue was down -9 .2% (+2.6% growth excluding PPT) .
The result in the Americas was driven by the afore mentioned developments in the oil & gas sector, and the consequent impact 
on the PPT business. However, consistent with its positive longer-term view of the industry, the Company continued to invest in 
opportunities for future growth, including new technologies, robotics and process automation to help ensure even greater consistency 
in product quality while reducing cost and improving labour savings, as well as a new purpose-built distribution centre in Alberta. 
Notwithstanding the rapid consolidation of the Abric Seals range into the Components offering, trading was also more challenging 
in the broader industrial segment, although an underlying improvement in execution in the second half helped to mitigate a 
weakening market environment.
Underlying growth in health & personal care was driven by portfolio and distribution channel expansion in speciality wipes and success 
in advanced wound care, while an increase in the household segment was boosted by the further successful commercialisation of 
recent business wins in both aircare and writing instruments for products using porous plastics. New packaging projects supported 
the performance in the food & drink category, with development activity and the roll-out of the Company’s e-cigarette offering 
continuing in tobacco.
The integration of Clondalkin SPD proceeded rapidly during the year, with some encouraging new business wins and the closure of two 
manufacturing facilities.
Asia
£m
% growth 
Actual exchange
% growth 
Constant exchange
Revenue 178.8 +7.0 +4.2
Revenue increased 7 .0% (4.2% at constant exchange) to £178.8m, with like-for-like growth of 2.8%.
Growth in Asia came across the majority of categories, with particularly good progress in the industrial category in India. The 
result in tobacco was supported by flavoured and non-standard diameter filters, combined with joint development activity with 
key multi-national customers and strong growth in Dubai: this was partially offset by the impact of temporary inventory destocking  
in China and material tax increases in India. The healthcare segment was boosted by growth in medical devices, while household 
benefited from the transfer of writing instrument nib activity from South Korea to a new facility in Indonesia – the full benefits  
of which will be realised in 2016 – although weakness in printer systems reflected an accelerating decline in market conditions.
Total revenue was boosted by the rapid integration of the Specialty Plastics and Abric Seals businesses, both of which have performed 
well and benefited from some encouraging new business wins.
29
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | REGIONAL REVIEW Board
Executive Risk Management Committee
Operational Risk Management Committee
Business
Audit 
Committee
First Defence
 Culture
 Policies
 Internal
 controls
Process
Second
 Management 
 monitoring
 Risk
 management
Third
 Internal audit
 External audit
Monitor Embed
Risk management 
approach
The sound management of risk within 
the parameters of a clearly defined  
risk attitude statement underpins  
the delivery of the Company’s Drive  
for 2020 strategy. By focusing on  
the challenges which arise in the 
international environment in which 
Essentra conducts business, and 
reflecting the Company’s attitude  
to risk in the delivery of its business 
objectives, Essentra’s risk management 
practices are designed to ensure risks 
are continuously monitored, associated 
action plans are reviewed and 
challenged, appropriate contingencies 
are provisioned and information is 
reported through established 
management control procedures.
Essentra seeks continuously to improve 
its risk management processes, and 
continues to develop new systems 
which serve to enhance the Company’s 
response to the risks inherent in its 
international business activities.
Throughout 2015, Essentra further 
embedded its enterprise risk management 
framework, which includes both 
Operational and Executive Risk 
Management Committees meeting  
on a quarterly basis, to discuss and  
monitor the changing risk environment  
to which Essentra is exposed and ensure 
any necessary mitigating actions are 
undertaken. Such meetings are preceded 
by individual discussions on risk with 
committee members, in order that a 
suitable view of the risk landscape can  
be determined. The Board and Audit 
Committee review the output from these 
respective committees in fulfilling their  
risk management responsibilities.
Essentra recognises that the ability to 
monitor, assess and respond to business 
risks quickly and effectively may provide  
a competitive advantage. Reporting within 
the Group is structured so that key issues 
are escalated, as appropriate, at the earliest 
opportunity. Each area of the business is 
required to review its areas of risk and 
uncertainty formally and regularly. There 
is an ongoing process to ensure that there 
are clear and consistent procedures for 
monitoring, updating and implementing 
appropriate controls to manage identified 
risks. Essentra’s short- and long-term 
performance may be impacted by many 
risks and uncertainties, not all of which are 
within the Company’s control. Outside the 
formal processes, the Company also seeks 
to ensure risk management is embedded in 
its everyday activities and is the subject of 
ongoing review and discussion.
The Company is subject to the general  
risks and uncertainties which impact  
other international organisations, including 
political instability in the countries in which 
the Company operates and sources raw 
materials, the impact of natural disasters 
and changes in general economic 
conditions, including currency and interest 
rate fluctuations, tax regimes and raw 
materials costs.
The Directors have undertaken a robust 
systematic assessment of the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties detailed  
on pages 31 to 35. The Board believes these 
risks and uncertainties are specific to 
Essentra, having regard to its strategic 
objectives, together with the Company’s 
risk management response thereto. The 
details provided are not exhaustive and do 
not purport to be a complete explanation 
of all potentially relevant issues. There may 
be other risks and uncertainties which are 
unknown to the Board, or which may not 
be deemed by the Board to be material at 
present but which could prove to be so in 
the future. There have been no significant 
failings in the controls during the year. 
Structure
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
30
STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Disruption to infrastructure
A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of any of Essentra’s manufacturing or distribution facilities due to accident, labour 
issues, fire, terrorist attack, natural disaster, information technology failure, cyber security attack or otherwise which, whether 
short- or long-term, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet the demands of its customers. Some of the assets 
maintained by the Company, such as tooling and IT systems, are critical to the manufacture and delivery of particular products.
Impact Mitigation
A material disruption to operational facilities or the loss of  
critical assets may negatively affect the Company’s:
 > Production capability and asset base
 > Supply chain management
 > Customer relationships
 > Reputation
 > Revenue
 > Profit
 > Financial condition
Essentra seeks to manage the risk of potential disruption of the 
supply of its customers by:
 > Operating within a flexible global infrastructure 
 > Installing fire and other risk prevention systems 
 > Implementing disaster recovery and business continuity plans
 > Assessing operational risks 
 > Maintaining a comprehensive insurance programme
 > Aligning Group information technology resources
 Emerging technologies and new competition pressures
Essentra faces pressure from direct competitors, as well as new competition from alternative technologies. Some of the Company’s 
competitors may derive advantage from greater financial resources, economies of scale or additional purchasing power or a lower 
cost base, and Essentra may face aggressive pricing practices.
Impact Mitigation
Demand for competitors’ products and the development 
of competing technologies may result in: 
 > Loss of market positions 
 > Erosion of margins 
 > Intellectual property challenges 
 > Decline in revenue 
 > Decline in profitability 
 > Deterioration in financial condition
Essentra seeks to mitigate the risk of competitive pressure by: 
 > Sustained investment in research and development to develop 
the quality and breadth of its product and service offering 
 > Exploiting innovation and manufacturing capabilities in new 
technologies, products and services 
 > Developing long-term relationships with customers  
at a senior level 
 > Protecting its intellectual property rights 
 > Expanding its international distribution, sales and  
marketing expertise 
 > Investing in both organic and acquisition growth opportunities
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
31
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Innovation
Essentra’s development and growth has benefited from the success of start-up operations and the continued growth of already 
established businesses. The rate of success of any development may in part be dependent on the Group’s innovation pipeline and 
the ability of the Company to be innovative with its operations in order to create efficiencies. There can be no assurance that the 
Company will anticipate market demand, develop, complete and commercialise current and suitable new products, or be successfully 
innovative in its operations.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra fails to meet the challenges of innovation, 
the Company may experience: 
 > Lower growth rates 
 > Delay in the achievement of strategic objectives
 > Reduced profitability
Essentra addresses the challenges of international 
business development with:
 > Experienced and skilled management 
 > Detailed due diligence and planning
 > Continuous improvement programmes
 > Investment programmes
 > Strategic Business Unit innovation programmes
 Mergers and acquisitions
Essentra’s development and growth has benefited from value-adding acquisitions. The rate of any future acquisition integration may 
in part be dependent on the success of identifying the correct acquisitions and having sufficient resources available. There can be no 
assurance that the Company will be successful in completing and integrating suitable acquisitions.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra fails to meet the challenges of business development 
arising from acquisitions, the Company may experience: 
 > Lower growth rates 
 > Delay in the achievement of strategic objectives 
 > Increased costs 
 > Reduced profitability
Essentra addresses the challenges of mergers  
and acquisitions with: 
 > Experienced and skilled management 
 > Detailed due diligence and planning 
 > Project risk reviews 
 > External expert advice
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
32
STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Customer profile
In some of Essentra’s businesses the customer base is relatively concentrated. Should Essentra’s customers decide to satisfy their 
requirements internally or from other suppliers, and if Essentra were unable to secure new revenue streams, this could result in a 
significant loss of business. Essentra must serve an increasingly complex profile of customers, who will be heavily reliant on the 
Company in some cases. There is now an increased expectation from these customers, and Essentra risks losing business should 
it fail to adequately measure customer satisfaction and manage relationships. 
Impact Mitigation
The loss of certain of Essentra’s key customers may expose 
the Company to: 
 > Reduced revenue 
 > Restructuring costs 
 > Profit decline 
 > Deterioration in financial condition 
 > Reputational damage
To counteract the Company’s exposure to its customer  
profile, Essentra: 
 > Invests in innovative, high-quality, value-added products 
and services 
 > Develops long-term relationships and loyalty with customers 
at all levels through Key Account Management techniques 
 > Seeks new markets and growth opportunities to expand its 
customer base
 Key raw materials supply
Some of Essentra’s businesses are dependent on the availability of specialist raw materials or components which are incorporated 
into the Company’s products. Key raw materials may be subject to price fluctuations from supply shortages. If rapid increases 
occur in the price of such raw materials, including energy costs, the Company’s revenue and profitability may be materially and 
adversely affected.
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra is exposed to raw materials price increases or supply 
shortages, the Company may suffer: 
 > Disruption to supply 
 > Increased costs 
 > Profit decline 
 > Reduced revenue
To counteract the Company’s exposure to increases in raw 
materials costs or supply shortages, Essentra seeks to: 
 > Adopt appropriate procurement practices 
 > Secure longer-term supply agreements
 > Implement cost recovery programmes 
 > Investigate the availability of alternative supply options
 > Use consignment stock
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
33
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  Cyber security
Essentra holds sensitive information relating to its customers, suppliers and employees, as well as intellectual property and financial 
data that needs to be held securely. Should security be breached, Essentra risks loss of major customers, information breach fines, 
disruption of normal operations and reputational damage. 
Impact Mitigation
Failure to have adequate cyber security measures in place 
may lead to:
 > Reduced revenue and profit
 > Disruption of normal operations
 > Litigation 
 > Reputational damage
To counteract the Company’s exposure to cyber security  
breaches, Essentra: 
 > Invests in industry best practice security software
 > Maintains a Security Operations Centre and acts upon 
external expert advice
 > Undertakes internal cyber security development initiatives
 Tobacco industry market dynamics
A substantial part of Essentra’s business relates to the supply of filter products and packaging solutions to manufacturers in the 
tobacco industry. Future performance may be affected by market dynamics within the industry, including commercial pressures from 
customers, global consumption shift from western to eastern markets, overall declining market growth, customer self-manufacture, 
new-generation development (such as e-cigarettes) and evolving legislation. Essentra cannot be competitive unless it manages and 
adapts its operational capacity in line with these trends. Tobacco-related litigation could also adversely affect Essentra, although there 
is no history of the Company being involved in such claims.
Impact Mitigation
Tobacco industry market dynamics may lead to: 
 > Reduced revenue 
 > Restructuring costs 
 > Profit decline 
 > Reputational damage 
 > Deterioration in financial condition
In seeking to minimise the potential impact of the exposure  
to the tobacco industry, Essentra: 
 > Invests in the research and development of innovative and 
new value-added products and services 
 > Targets growth opportunities outside the manufacture of  
filter products
 > Focuses on low-cost filter production 
 > Takes internal and external legal advice to manage  
litigation risk 
 > Seeks to add value with a range of low-cost and innovative 
packaging solutions
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
34
STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS  People and experience
Essentra’s international operations are dependent on existing key executives and certain other employees in order to sustain, 
develop and grow its businesses, and there can be no assurance that these employees will remain with the Company. The success of 
the Company will reflect its ability to retain, attract and motivate highly qualified executives and other personnel equipped to deliver 
Essentra’s strategic objectives. 
Impact Mitigation
If Essentra fails to retain, attract or motivate the required 
calibre of employees, its operational performance and 
financial condition may be materially impacted by a lack of: 
 > Experience 
 > Expertise 
 > Commercial relationships 
 > Market insight 
 > Product innovation
In order to manage the risk of personnel change, Essentra: 
 > Regularly reviews personal development and  
succession planning 
 > Sets appropriate key performance indicators 
 > Implements management development schemes and other 
training programmes 
 > Sets effective remuneration programmes 
 > Provides long-term share-based incentive plans 
 > Uses a talent management system 
 > Continues to recruit graduates on its  
development programme
 Compliance risk
Risk related to regulatory and legislative changes involves the possible failure of the Company to comply with current, changing 
or new legislation or regulation. Many of Essentra’s current business activities are subject to increasing regulation and enforcement 
activity by relevant authorities. As the Company moves into new markets and territories in pursuit of its strategic priorities, Essentra 
is exposed to new and additional compliance risk.
Impact Mitigation
Failure by the Company or its employees or others acting on 
its behalf to abide by the laws and regulations could result in: 
 > Administrative, civil or criminal liability 
 > Significant fines and penalties 
 > Suspense or debarment of the Company from trading 
 > Reputational damage 
 > Loss of commercial relationships
In order to manage compliance risk Essentra: 
 > Establishes a clear compliance culture from the top down 
 > Conducts risk assessments and ongoing compliance reviews 
 > Implements relevant policies and procedures 
 > Provides behavioural guidance and training to all employees 
 > Monitors compliance through verification procedures
 > Engages local advisers as appropriate
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
35
MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Priorities / goals How do we manage it? How did we do? How will we do it?
Reduce the impact of carbon 
emissions and secure continuous 
improvement in environmental 
performance
 > Understand current environmental 
performance and establish Group 
expectations for improvements 
and results
 > Establish Group minimum 
expectations for environmental 
management
 > Identify and understand the 
environmental aspects and 
impacts associated with the 
Company’s activities
 > Implement initiatives to reduce  
waste and increase recycling
 > Explore the use of energy-saving 
technology in manufacturing
 > Develop new techniques with 
suppliers and customers for 
environmentally friendly products
 > Gain ISO 14001 accreditation  
at all manufacturing sites
 > Gain ISO 50001 accreditation  
at all manufacturing sites
 > Conducted energy audits across UK 
operations in compliance with Energy 
Savings Opportunities Scheme (“ESOS”) 
Regulations 2014
 > Included environmental and 
sustainability improvement initiatives 
in site annual HSE improvement plans
 > Continued to invest in more flexible 
equipment to improve energy and 
production efficiency
 > Reduced environmental impact 
through site consolidation
 > Gained accreditation to ISO 50001  
at a further eleven sites
 > Establish Group-wide core minimum 
standards for the identification and 
control of environmental impacts 
(including the provision of training)
 > Continue to implement three-year 
HSE improvement plan for the 
Group, supported by individual 
site improvement plans 
 > Offset emissions when possible
 > Continue to prioritise “War on  
Waste” initiative
 > Continue to drive achievement of  
ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 accreditation 
for all manufacturing facilities
Secure continuous improvement 
in health and safety
 > Identify and understand the  
health and safety risks posed 
by Essentra’s activities
 > Establish Group minimum 
expectations for the management 
of health and safety
 > Understand current health and 
safety performance, and establish 
Group expectations for improvements 
and results
 > Encourage employee initiatives  
to reinforce Company training
 > Gain OHSAS 18001 accreditation  
at all manufacturing sites
 > Introduced Essentra Health and Safety 
Management System and STEP initiative 
across all acquired businesses
 > Launched a standardised Safety, 
Health, Environment and Quality 
(“SHEQ”) reporting scorecard and 
key performance indicators for all 
manufacturing and significant 
distribution sites
 > Introduced an Essentra Health, Safety & 
Environment Culture and Organisational 
Maturity Survey Tool in support of the 
drive for cultural excellence
 > Establish Group-wide core minimum 
standards for the identification and 
control of health and safety risks 
(including the provision of training)
 > Continue to implement three-year 
HSE improvement plan for the 
Group, supported by individual 
site improvement plans 
 > Demonstrate year-on-year 
improvement in the lost-time 
and all accident incident rates
 > Continue to drive achievement 
of OHSAS 18001 accreditation 
for all manufacturing facilities
Ensure the highest standards of 
business integrity and conduct
 > Promote Essentra Values
 > Establish clear policies and guidance
 > Secure employee awareness 
and engagement
 > Continue to promote Right 
to Speak policy
 > Regular review of adherence  
with policies and guidance by  
Group Assurance
 > Continued communication of core 
policies through e-learning and  
reviews in Essentra Group System
 > Implemented new compliance systems
 > Continued to train employees in Code 
of Business Ethics
 > Respond to new risks and requirements
 > Provide further training
 > Drive employee responsibility
 > Investigate complaints
Corporate responsibility encompasses 
a broad range of philosophies, 
activities and standards.
Essentra considers the issues that 
are material to its business and seeks 
to respond to them in a manner 
appropriate to the interests of  
all its stakeholders.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
36
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Priorities / goals How do we manage it? How did we do? How will we do it?
Reduce the impact of carbon 
emissions and secure continuous 
improvement in environmental 
performance
 > Understand current environmental 
performance and establish Group 
expectations for improvements 
and results
 > Establish Group minimum 
expectations for environmental 
management
 > Identify and understand the 
environmental aspects and 
impacts associated with the 
Company’s activities
 > Implement initiatives to reduce  
waste and increase recycling
 > Explore the use of energy-saving 
technology in manufacturing
 > Develop new techniques with 
suppliers and customers for 
environmentally friendly products
 > Gain ISO 14001 accreditation  
at all manufacturing sites
 > Gain ISO 50001 accreditation  
at all manufacturing sites
 > Conducted energy audits across UK 
operations in compliance with Energy 
Savings Opportunities Scheme (“ESOS”) 
Regulations 2014
 > Included environmental and 
sustainability improvement initiatives 
in site annual HSE improvement plans
 > Continued to invest in more flexible 
equipment to improve energy and 
production efficiency
 > Reduced environmental impact 
through site consolidation
 > Gained accreditation to ISO 50001  
at a further eleven sites
 > Establish Group-wide core minimum 
standards for the identification and 
control of environmental impacts 
(including the provision of training)
 > Continue to implement three-year 
HSE improvement plan for the 
Group, supported by individual 
site improvement plans 
 > Offset emissions when possible
 > Continue to prioritise “War on  
Waste” initiative
 > Continue to drive achievement of  
ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 accreditation 
for all manufacturing facilities
Secure continuous improvement 
in health and safety
 > Identify and understand the  
health and safety risks posed 
by Essentra’s activities
 > Establish Group minimum 
expectations for the management 
of health and safety
 > Understand current health and 
safety performance, and establish 
Group expectations for improvements 
and results
 > Encourage employee initiatives  
to reinforce Company training
 > Gain OHSAS 18001 accreditation  
at all manufacturing sites
 > Introduced Essentra Health and Safety 
Management System and STEP initiative 
across all acquired businesses
 > Launched a standardised Safety, 
Health, Environment and Quality 
(“SHEQ”) reporting scorecard and 
key performance indicators for all 
manufacturing and significant 
distribution sites
 > Introduced an Essentra Health, Safety & 
Environment Culture and Organisational 
Maturity Survey Tool in support of the 
drive for cultural excellence
 > Establish Group-wide core minimum 
standards for the identification and 
control of health and safety risks 
(including the provision of training)
 > Continue to implement three-year 
HSE improvement plan for the 
Group, supported by individual 
site improvement plans 
 > Demonstrate year-on-year 
improvement in the lost-time 
and all accident incident rates
 > Continue to drive achievement 
of OHSAS 18001 accreditation 
for all manufacturing facilities
Ensure the highest standards of 
business integrity and conduct
 > Promote Essentra Values
 > Establish clear policies and guidance
 > Secure employee awareness 
and engagement
 > Continue to promote Right 
to Speak policy
 > Regular review of adherence  
with policies and guidance by  
Group Assurance
 > Continued communication of core 
policies through e-learning and  
reviews in Essentra Group System
 > Implemented new compliance systems
 > Continued to train employees in Code 
of Business Ethics
 > Respond to new risks and requirements
 > Provide further training
 > Drive employee responsibility
 > Investigate complaints
Essentra recognises the significance  
and importance of being a responsible 
corporate citizen in the workplace, 
marketplace, environment and 
community. The Company’s international 
operations fulfil their responsibility to 
record, monitor and make publicly 
available the potential impact of its 
activities. In pursuing its corporate 
strategy, Essentra’s aim is to adopt 
business practices that are economically, 
socially and environmentally sustainable, 
and to promote these to its stakeholders 
in order to strengthen relationships, share 
knowledge and encourage best practice. 
The Company’s risk management 
processes include consideration of the 
potential impact of corporate responsibility 
issues on Essentra’s performance. The 
Company’s investment decisions take into 
account appropriate evaluations of the 
potential consequences for its employees, 
customers and suppliers and the 
environment. 
The Essentra Values are fundamental to 
the Company’s adoption of the highest 
standards of business ethics and integrity 
that underpin its relationships with both 
internal and external stakeholders. 
Essentra’s culture is one of openness, 
integrity and accountability. Employees 
are encouraged to act fairly in their 
dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, 
suppliers and business partners.
The Essentra Values can be found on the 
Company’s website www.essentraplc.com.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
37
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Workplace
Health and safety
Essentra’s overriding commitment in 
the workplace continues to be the health, 
safety and welfare of its employees and all 
those who visit the Company’s operations, 
as well as those who carry out work on 
behalf of the Group. The Board provides 
health and safety leadership, and the 
Chief Executive has primary responsibility 
for setting the principal health and safety 
objectives within which the detailed 
policies operate, and for reviewing 
progress against those objectives.
The Group-wide intranet-based 
management reporting system continues 
to facilitate an extensive live programme 
of active monitoring, which measures in 
detail how successful the Company is in 
managing the safety of its workplaces 
at an individual site level. This has been 
supplemented during the year by a 
structured common key performance 
indicator scorecard covering SHEQ at 
a site, regional, SBU and Group level.
The Company manages occupational 
health by identifying key risk activities, 
undertaking health assessments and, 
where appropriate, implementing health 
surveillance programmes. The Company 
has achieved the Occupational Health 
& Safety Management Systems OHSAS 
18001 standard for all its principal 
manufacturing facilities and is now 
driving this into all sites. 
As part of its three-year improvement 
plan, a twelve-point Essentra Safety and 
Health Management System (“ESHAM”) 
– supported by a comprehensive 
communications programme – was 
introduced in 2014 across all sites, to 
facilitate the adoption of best practice 
and encourage behavioural change, and 
has continued to show an improvement 
in scores during 2015. This programme, 
together with the shop floor STEP initiative 
(to improve hazard spotting, reporting 
and corrective action), has been rolled 
out to acquired sites during the year.
Although acquisitions and growth have  
led to an increase in the raw number of 
accidents, sustained reductions in both 
lost-time accident incidence rate and all 
accident incidence rate have been achieved 
in 2015. However, notwithstanding these 
improvements, the number of accidents 
occurring is still seen as an area for further 
improvement and thus, in 2016, a Group-
wide “back to basics” initiative is to be 
introduced in support of local site 
performance improvement programmes. 
During 2015, an Essentra Health, Safety & 
Environment Culture and Organisational 
Maturity Survey Tool, in support of our drive 
for cultural excellence, was introduced.  
The tool is utilised at a site level, and there  
is a requirement that an action plan is 
developed locally to address the main 
opportunities for improvement identified  
in the survey.
Details of Essentra’s health and safety 
performance for 2015, and subsequent 
progress throughout 2016, can be viewed 
on the Company’s website  
www.essentraplc.com.
Lost Time Accident Incident Rate (MAT)) Linear (Lost Time Accident Rate (MAT))
Jan-14 
Feb-14 
Mar-14 
Apr-14 
May-14 
Jun-14 
Jul-14 
Aug-14 
Sep-14 
Oct-14 
Nov-14 
Dec-14 
Jan-15 
Feb-15 
Mar-15 
Apr-15 
May-15 
Jun-15 
Jul-15 
Aug-15 
Sep-15 
Oct-15 
Nov-15 
Dec-15
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
1.05
1.10
1.15
All Accident Incident Rate (MAT))
Jan-14 
Feb-14 
Mar-14 
Apr-14 
May-14 
Jun-14 
Jul-14 
Aug-14 
Sep-14 
Oct-14 
Nov-14 
Dec-14 
Jan-15 
Feb-15 
Mar-15 
Apr-15 
May-15 
Jun-15 
Jul-15 
Aug-15 
Sep-15 
Oct-15 
Nov-15 
Dec-15
Linear (All Accident Incident Rate (MAT))
4.0
4.2
4.4
4.6
4.8
5.0
5.2
5.4
5.6
Lost-Time Accident Incidence Rate (MAT)
(No. lost time accidents per 100 employees)
All Accident Incidence Rates (MAT)
(No. all accidents per 100 employees)
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
38
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Employees
Essentra’s employees are a vital resource 
in the pursuit of operational excellence 
and the provision of quality products and 
service to its customers. The skills and 
expertise of Essentra’s employees drive the 
innovation which enables the Company  
to provide added value to its customers, 
enhance supply chain logistics with its 
suppliers and reduce the environmental 
impact of its operations. 
The Company regularly reviews its 
organisational structure to ensure that 
the business has the necessary personnel 
to deliver its strategic priorities. 
Essentra understands the importance of 
having the right people with the right skills 
– now and in the future – to deliver the 
exceptional service and expertise which is 
the bedrock of the Company’s long-term 
relationships with its customers. To deliver 
that service and expertise, Essentra is 
continually improving its comprehensive 
talent pool, from graduates to senior 
management. Essentra runs a very 
successful graduate training programme, 
which continues to expand its 
international reach.
Key strategic aspects of recruitment, 
training and development are overseen 
or co-ordinated at a Group level, to ensure 
consistency of approach, to identify 
strategic threats and opportunities, and  
to open up a wider range of opportunities  
for employees.
Essentra encourages its employees to 
develop and manage their own careers. 
It facilitates this by providing relevant job 
training and, where appropriate, aims to 
fill vacancies with existing staff where 
employees are suitably qualified  
and experienced.
Essentra encourages the involvement of 
employees in the Company’s performance 
through employees’ share schemes.
Essentra is committed to improving 
employee engagement and learning 
more about the needs of its workforce. 
In addition to the impact of the training 
and development programmes, employee 
engagement is enhanced by the 
communication practices which have 
been adopted across the businesses.
Essentra values highly the commitment 
of its employees and recognises the 
importance of communication to good 
working relationships and practices. 
The Company seeks to ensure that 
employees are informed on matters 
relating to their employment and on 
financial and economic factors affecting 
the businesses. The Company actively 
seeks feedback and ideas from employees 
to improve its operations, and forums 
appropriate to Essentra’s local businesses 
have been established to allow employees 
to voice their views as to how the 
Company should fulfil the demands of 
all its local and international stakeholders. 
The Company’s European Information 
and Consultation Forum facilitates the 
discussion of issues across all of its 
operations in the European Union.
The Company recognises the importance 
of, and the benefits to be derived from, 
diversity across its international operations 
and is committed to offering equal 
opportunities to all people without 
discrimination of any form. Essentra 
remunerates fairly with respect to skills, 
performance and local market conditions. 
The gender of Essentra’s employees as 
at 31 December 2015 was: 
Male Female
Non-Executive 
Directors
5 1
Executive Directors
2 0
Senior Managers
38 2
All employees
6,181 2,685
The Company gives full and fair 
consideration to employment applications 
by disabled people. In the event of 
employees becoming disabled, every effort 
is made to ensure that the training, career 
development and promotion opportunities 
available to disabled persons are as far as 
possible identical to those of non-disabled 
employees.
Throughout its global activities 
Essentra supports human rights as set 
down by the United Nations Declaration 
and its applicable International Labour 
Organisation conventions. Operations 
based in India, Indonesia and Thailand are 
also accredited to SA 8000 which details 
fundamental principles of human rights. 
The Group’s activities are carried out in 
developed countries that have strong 
legislation governing human rights.  
The Group complies fully with appropriate 
legislation in the countries in which it 
operates. Essentra’s commitment to 
human rights is repeated in its Values  
and Code of Business Ethics policy. 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
39
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Marketplace
Essentra’s reputation with its customers 
and suppliers, and in the communities 
where it operates, is based not only on 
the quality of its performance, but also  
on the integrity of its management of 
the workplace and the environment, 
and its ethical and responsible conduct 
in the marketplace. The development 
and continuation of long-term business 
relationships reflects the trust placed in 
the Company, and such commitments 
are an important component in the 
ongoing success of Essentra.
Essentra’s Code of Business Ethics policy 
is applicable to all its businesses around 
the world. The policy details the standards 
expected by Essentra in the conduct of 
its business and its relationships with  
third parties, including free and fair 
competition, plus the prohibition of bribery 
and political donations, and provides 
general guidance on honest and fair 
dealings with suppliers, customers and 
local and national authorities. 
Essentra is committed to working with 
its suppliers to ensure the welfare of 
workers and employment conditions 
within its supply chain meet or exceed 
internationally recognised standards. 
Environment
Essentra applies a structured approach to 
maintaining its environmental impact by:
 > Implementing and maintaining 
environmental and energy 
management systems certified 
to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 on a 
global basis
 > Measuring and monitoring 
consumption and emissions, and 
setting targets to improve performance 
 > Conducting environmental impact 
assessments and developing site 
management plans
 > Providing training to employees, 
and engaging with customers and 
suppliers to raise environmental 
awareness
 > Providing facilities to segregate and 
reuse or recycle waste
Essentra is listed in the FTSE4Good 
Index which is designed to measure 
the performance of companies striving 
to meet globally recognised corporate 
responsibility standards, and to facilitate 
investment in those companies where 
corporate responsibility issues are an 
influencing factor in an investor’s 
decision-making process.
In the UK, Essentra’s sites comply with 
the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(“CRC”) legislation. The Company is 
registered for Phase II and has complied 
with all relevant data submissions. 
Essentra continues to apply the principles 
of the CRC to its global operations and is 
well placed to manage further legislative 
changes in its operating regions.
 
Given the diversity of Essentra’s 
international operations, local 
management drives environmental 
performance in accordance with Group 
policy, copies of which can be found on the 
Company’s website www.essentraplc.com. 
Specific site-level objectives are established 
to ensure compliance with local legislative 
and external management systems 
(ISO 14001 and ISO 50001).
Essentra uses a variety of indicators to 
monitor environmental performance, but 
the following core impacts are identified 
for the Group as a whole:
 > Greenhouse gas emissions from 
energy use, including electricity, 
natural gas, heating fuel, transport 
and travel
 > Use of resources, including water
 > Generation and disposal of waste
Essentra continually seeks ways to improve 
its utilisation of natural resources. A 
process of continuous improvement 
is applied, not only to the impact of its 
usage, but also to the measurement 
and capture of key environmental data. 
The Group has research and development 
facilities in the UK, Asia and the US to 
investigate the use of renewable resources 
and recyclable biodegradable versions 
of products.
The following assumptions, methodology, 
definitions and data validation processes 
have been used to report the Group’s key 
environmental performance indicators in 
2015. The reported data complies with 
the Companies Act, for the Mandatory 
Reporting of Greenhouse Gases (“GHG”).
 > Boundary scope: Data from all 
locations over which the Company 
has operational control is collected 
and measured
 > Primary data sources: These include 
billing, invoices and other systems 
provided by the supplier of the energy 
to communicate energy consumption
 > Secondary data sources: These include 
the Company’s internal systems used 
to record and report the above 
consumption data
 > Internal data validation: The process 
used to review and compare primary 
data with secondary data. All invoices 
and data loggers for locations 
consuming more than 1 million kWh 
per year are cross-checked with the 
data held within the Company’s own 
internal data capture systems
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
40
STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  > Conversion factors: The 2015 
Government GHG Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting, published by 
the UK Department for Environment 
Food & Rural Affairs (“DEFRA”), are 
used when converting gross emissions. 
The applicable country conversion 
factors published in this guidance  
have been applied to operations 
outside the UK 
 > Intensity metric: Total carbon emissions 
per £m of revenue are used to calculate 
the Company’s intensity metric.
Tonnes of CO
2
 e (gross)
Year ended  
31 Dec 2015
Year ended  
31 Dec 2014
Scope 1 11,543 8,967
Scope 2 104,820 74,039
Total gross 
emissions
116,363 83,006
Total carbon 
emissions per 
£m revenue
104.95 95.88
 
Acquisitions and growth have  
contributed to Essentra’s increased  
use of energy. The application of energy 
improvement initiatives is expected to 
improve the Company’s overall utilisation 
of energy and raw materials.
Core impacts 
Year ended  
31 Dec 2015
Year ended  
31 Dec 2014
General 
waste
1
5,371 3,052
Recycled 
factory 
waste & 
cardboard
2
1,026 1,716
Water
3
299.5m
3
257.0m
3
1
 Tonnes of waste to landfill
2
 Tonnes of production waste
3
 Per £million of Company revenue
Essentra is committed to ensuring  
good environmental practices at all its 
locations, in its operational processes and 
investment decisions. Essentra’s principal 
manufacturing locations are ISO 14001 
accredited, and all the Company’s 
European businesses comply with  
EU and domestic regulations.
Due to the scale of Essentra’s international 
operations, the use of energy and raw 
materials has both environmental and 
commercial importance. Where possible, 
and financially viable, raw materials and 
energy from renewable resources are 
utilised to limit environmental impact, 
commercial risk and costs.
Essentra actively engages with its 
employees, customers, and suppliers 
to exploit opportunities offered by  
new technologies, improved process 
operations and novel materials,  
to reduce its environmental impact  
and improve profitability further.
Community
Essentra’s commitment to being a 
responsible corporate citizen extends to 
support for appropriate non-political and 
non-sectarian projects across a range of 
organisations and charities. Regardless 
of regional or national boundaries, the 
Company aims to support the creation 
of prosperous, educated, sustainable 
and healthy communities in the countries 
and cultures in which it operates. In its 
attempts to bring benefits back to those 
communities whose support provides a 
basis for Essentra’s success, the Company 
has focused on education and enterprise, 
health and welfare and the environment, 
with support driven at a local, rather 
than a corporate, level. The approach is to 
support and enhance employee efforts in 
their communities through the application 
of the Company’s resources. In pursuit of 
its aims within the community, Essentra 
has developed targeted programmes  
for local communities, often involving 
commercial sponsorship and significant 
employee engagement through direct 
involvement or secondment.
Ethics
Essentra’s culture is one of openness, 
integrity and accountability. Employees 
are required to act fairly in their dealings 
with fellow colleagues, suppliers, 
customers and business partners.  
All employees undertake training in the 
Company’s Code of Business Ethics policy 
which is updated annually. In addition, 
all employees are required to review and 
confirm their acceptance of critical Group 
policies, with the majority of employees 
being required to review and accept all 
of the Group policies. Essentra operates 
a confidential whistleblowing policy called 
“Right to Speak”, with an external call 
centre which enables all Group employees 
to raise any concerns.
Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach 
to bribery and corruption, which extends 
to all business dealings and transactions 
in which the Company is involved. This 
includes prohibiting political donations, 
offering or receiving inappropriate gifts 
and making facilitation payments.
41
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Colin Day
Chief Executive
Colin’s biographical details  
can be found on page 44.
Stefan Schellinger
Group Finance Director
Stefan’s biographical details  
can be found on page 45.
Hugh Ross
Managing Director, Europe
Hugh Ross joined Essentra in 1999. 
Before being appointed to his current 
position in January 2014, Hugh was 
President of the Speciality Tapes business 
in the US, prior to which he held increasingly 
senior roles in the Filter Products and the 
Packaging & Securing Solutions divisions 
in North America. Hugh is a Chartered 
Accountant, having qualified with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and served  
as an Officer in the British Army.
Malcolm Waugh
Group Commercial Director  
/ Managing Director, Health  
& Personal Care Packaging
Malcolm Waugh joined Essentra in 2007  
as Managing Director of the Tear Tape 
business, and was appointed to the role of 
Group Commercial Director in January 2012. 
Prior to joining Essentra, Malcolm was 
Commercial Director at Tetra Pak UK  
and Ireland, holding a variety of business 
development and commercial positions 
during his 18-year career there.
Brett York
President, Americas
Brett York joined Essentra in 2001 as  
Vice President of Sales & Marketing for  
the US Components business. Before being 
appointed to his current role in January 
2014, Brett held the position of President  
of Component Distribution Americas  
from 2012 and President of the Speciality 
Tapes business from 2007 . Prior to  
joining Essentra, Brett held a variety  
of increasingly senior commercial and 
operational positions at a number of 
companies, including Industrial Molding 
Corp., Waddington and PepsiCo.
Joanna Speed
Corporate Affairs Director
Joanna Speed joined Essentra in 2011  
as Corporate Affairs Director, having 
previously held the position of Investor 
Relations Director at Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc and Scottish & Newcastle plc. 
Prior to this, Joanna was an equity analyst 
and worked in investment banking for a 
number of international banks. Joanna is  
a Chartered Accountant, having qualified 
with Arthur Andersen. 
Scott Fawcett
Managing Director, Distribution
Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010  
as Managing Director of the European 
Components business, and was appointed 
to his current role in January 2014. Prior  
to joining Essentra, Scott was Head of 
eCommerce at Electrocomponents plc, 
where he held a variety of increasingly 
senior sales, marketing and eCommerce 
positions during his 17-year career there.
PT Sreekumar
Managing Director, Filter Products  
/ Managing Director, Asia
PT Sreekumar joined Essentra in 1995, being 
initially responsible for the Company’s joint 
venture in India. Before being appointed 
to the role of Managing Director, Filter 
Products in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional 
Director for Asia Pacific, responsible for the 
business in Asia and the Middle East. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Sreekumar worked for the 
Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
42
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
 | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Jon Green
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, and 
was appointed Company Secretary & 
General Counsel in July 2005. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Jon worked as an in-house 
lawyer for a number of large international 
businesses, including Hays plc and  
Unilever plc. Jon is a qualified solicitor.
Alan Richards
Group Operations Director
Alan Richards joined Essentra as Group 
Operations Director in 2012. Prior to  
joining Essentra, Alan was Senior Director  
– Manufacturing Excellence at the  
Mars Group, and has held a number of 
increasingly senior operational roles in  
the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and mining 
industries. Since 1 January 2013, Alan has 
been responsible for the Group’s Health, 
Safety & Environment practices.
Gavin Leathem
Group Human Resources Director
Gavin Leathem joined Essentra as Group 
Human Resources Director in 2014. Prior to 
joining Essentra, Gavin was Vice President 
of HR for Europe, Middle East and Africa 
at Emerson Network Power Systems, before 
which he was Group HR Director at Chloride 
Group plc during his 13-year career there. 
Gavin is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute 
of Personnel & Development.
43
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Jeff Harris
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board: May 2005
Skills and experience
Chairman of Essentra since its formation  
in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in 
ensuring continuity upon demerger and  
in the subsequent development of the 
Company. Jeff is a Chartered Accountant, 
having spent over 25 years working in 
public companies, and brings a wealth 
of experience to Essentra.
 
Jeff will retire as Non-Executive Chairman 
of Essentra following the Company’s 2016 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) on 
20 April 2016. 
Past appointments
Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance 
UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman  
of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of 
Associated British Foods plc, Non-Executive 
Chairman of Cookson Group plc,  
Non-Executive Director of WH Smith plc 
and Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director of Synergy Health plc. 
 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Paul Lester, CBE
Non-Executive Chairman Designate
Appointed to the Board: December 2015
Skills and experience
Paul is currently Chairman of the FTSE 250 
company John Laing Infrastructure Fund, 
Greenergy – the second largest private 
company in the UK – and Knight Square 
Holdings. Paul brings a wealth of experience 
to Essentra, gained in increasingly senior 
operational and strategic executive roles, 
and has also served on a number of 
Boards in a non-executive capacity for 
more than 20 years.
Paul will assume the role of Non-Executive 
Chairman, following the retirement of 
Jeff Harris at the Company’s 2016 AGM 
on 20 April 2016.
Other appointments
Chairman of John Laing Infrastructure 
Fund, Greenergy and Knight Square 
Holdings.
Past appointments
Chairman of Parabis Group, Chief 
Executive of VT Group plc and Graseby  
plc, Group Managing Director of Balfour 
Beatty plc, President of the Society of 
Maritime Industries, the BSA and the 
Engineering Employers Federation.
Terry Twigger
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: June 2009
Skills and experience
Terry has considerable mergers and 
acquisitions experience and has also held 
a number of senior finance roles, including 
having previously been Finance Director at 
Meggitt PLC. Prior to his retirement in 2013, 
Terry was Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC.
Other appointments
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee  
of X Power Limited. 
Past appointments
Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, Director  
of Lucas Aerospace.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee,  
member of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Colin Day
Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board: April 2011
Skills and experience
Prior to joining Essentra, Colin was Chief 
Financial Officer at Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc for over ten years. In addition  
to leading the finance function there,  
Colin was instrumental in both mergers 
and acquisitions activity and the 
development of group strategy. Before 
joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a 
range of senior finance and operational 
positions at a variety of companies.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director of Meggitt PLC,  
AMEC Foster Wheeler plc and FM Global.
Past appointments
Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc and Aegis Group plc, Non-
Executive Director of WPP Group plc, 
EasyJet plc, Imperial Tobacco Group plc 
and Cadbury plc.
44
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Stefan Schellinger
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Board: October 2015
Skills and experience
Stefan joined Essentra in 2013, and prior 
to being appointed to his current position 
in 2015, he was Corporate Development 
Director where he played a key role in the 
development of the Company’s strategy 
and in building its mergers and acquisitions 
activity. Before joining Essentra, Stefan 
was Finance Director – Emerging Markets  
at Gilbarco Veeder Root from 2011, having 
initially joined the Danaher Corporation as 
Director, Corporate Development – Europe 
in 2005. Stefan has extensive investment 
banking and accountancy experience, 
having previously worked at JP Morgan  
and Arthur Andersen.
Tommy Breen
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: April 2015
 
Skills and experience
Tommy is currently Chief Executive of 
DCC plc, an international sales, marketing, 
distribution and business support services 
group, headquartered in Dublin and with 
operations in 13 countries. Tommy brings 
significant experience to Essentra, in 
particular of growing diverse businesses 
both organically and via acquisition during 
his 30-year career with DCC.
 
Other appointments
Chief Executive of DCC plc.
 
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
Peter Hill, CBE
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2013
Skills and experience
Peter is currently Non-Executive  
Chairman of Volution Group plc, a  
leading supplier of ventilation products. 
Peter brings a wealth of experience  
to Essentra, gained in particular in 
increasingly senior operational and 
strategic executive roles, and has  
also served on a number of Boards  
in a non-executive capacity  
for over 20 years.
 
Other appointments
Chairman of Volution Group plc,  
Non-Executive Director of the Royal 
Air Force.
Past appointments
Chairman of Alent plc, Chief Executive 
of Laird PLC, Executive Director of Costain 
Group PLC, Non-Executive Director of 
Cookson Group plc, Meggitt PLC and 
Oxford Instruments plc, Non-Executive 
Board member of UK Trade & Investment.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees.
Lorraine Trainer
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2013
Skills and experience
Lorraine began her executive career 
at Citibank, and has some 20 years’ 
experience in Human Resources at such 
blue-chip companies as the London Stock 
Exchange and Coutts NatWest Group. 
Lorraine currently combines her Board 
work with consultancy at and around 
Board level in Director development.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Jupiter Fund Management 
plc, Non-Executive Director of Sonae – 
SGPS, S.A.
Past appointments
Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc 
and Colt Group S.A.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees. 
45
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dear Shareholder,
As previously announced, following 
ten years of service, I shall be retiring 
at the 2016 AGM as Chairman of the 
Board and a Non-Executive Director. 
I was appointed in 2005 when Essentra 
first listed as an independent company,  
and over the course of my tenure I 
have seen the Company grow and 
strengthen significantly. I am pleased 
to report that I will be leaving an 
experienced Board under the 
stewardship of Paul Lester.
During my time as Chairman, I have visited 
numerous sites around the world and had 
the opportunity to meet many of our 
employees, and have consistently been 
impressed by the dedication, commitment 
and enthusiasm of my Essentra colleagues.
2015 saw the completion of a number of 
value-creating acquisitions, most notably 
that of the Clondalkin Specialist Packaging 
Division which significantly increases the 
Group’s position in the specialist secondary 
packaging market for the pharmaceutical, 
health and personal care industries.  
I would like to take this opportunity of 
formally welcoming all new employees  
to the Essentra Group. These acquisitions 
have already been successfully integrated, 
and have enabled Essentra to continue  
to expand its geographical footprint and 
enter new – or improve its penetration of 
existing – targeted end-markets, including 
the US, the Netherlands, Spain and Poland 
in healthcare packaging, Malaysia and 
Thailand in security seals and Australia  
in components.
In its first year of Drive for 2020, it is 
disappointing that the performance of  
the overall Group has been significantly 
impacted by downturn in the global oil 
& gas industry, with a sustained low oil price 
– and the consequent effect on drilling 
activity – having a materially negative 
impact on the performance of our PPT 
business. Indeed, having visited the opening 
of our new, state-of-the-art headquarters 
in Houston in 2012, I have seen first-hand 
the excellence of the site and its hard-
working employees, and I would like to pay 
tribute to the resilience of the entire team 
in securing business wherever possible in 
a very challenging environment. 
During the year, two new Non-Executive 
Directors were appointed, firstly Tommy 
Breen in April and latterly Paul Lester 
as Chairman Designate in December, 
both of whom bring a wealth of experience 
to Essentra, gained across a number of 
different industries and in increasingly 
senior strategic and operational roles. In 
addition, and consistent with the Group’s 
succession planning, Stefan Schellinger was 
appointed to the position of Group Finance 
Director in October; Stefan joined Essentra 
in 2013 as Corporate Development Director, 
in which role he was responsible for 
developing Essentra’s corporate strategy, 
including leading the Company’s mergers 
and acquisitions activity and successfully 
completing a number of transactions. 
Given the number of changes to the 
composition of the Board in 2015 – and the 
prospective change in Chairman – it was 
not considered appropriate to commission 
a Board evaluation during the year.
I strongly believe that good governance 
is founded on the core values and  
behaviours established by the Board and 
communicated throughout the Group. 
Essentra continues to promote a strong 
culture of the highest standards of business 
ethics, based on clear principles. The Board’s 
participation in the Company’s compliance 
training programmes, and its commitment 
to the development of new governance 
policies and practices, serves to ensure that 
such standards are clearly understood and 
reinforced by the “tone from the top” .
The continuing strong compliance 
programme helps to reassure the Board 
that, as Essentra continues to grow in 
size and complexity, we have in place the 
appropriate people, culture and processes 
to fully exploit the opportunities for further 
balanced, profitable growth which are 
available, and to mitigate effectively the 
risks to which the Company is exposed.
We have made a solid start to Drive for 
2020, and I am confident that the Board 
will continue to focus on the successful 
execution of Essentra’s strategic objectives 
in 2016 and beyond. While the afore 
mentioned challenges in the oil & gas 
industry resulted in a c. £30m decline in 
revenue – and material reduction in 
operating margin – for our PPT business, the 
Group has nonetheless delivered balanced, 
profitable organic growth, complemented 
by value-adding acquisitions in 2015. Indeed, 
the Board’s confidence in the resilience and 
prospects of the Company is underscored 
by the recommended 13% increase in the 
dividend per share – consistent with 
Essentra’s commitment to paying a 
progressive dividend to shareholders.
JEFF HARRIS
Chairman 
19 February 2016
46
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER The Board
In fulfilling its role, the Board:
 > Sets, continually reviews and tests 
the Company’s strategic aims 
 > Determines the nature and extent  
of acceptable risks in achieving its 
strategic objectives 
 > Oversees the establishment of formal 
and transparent arrangements for the 
application of corporate reporting, risk 
management and internal control 
requirements and principles
 > Ensures that the necessary financial 
and human resources are in place for 
the Company to meet its objectives
 > Sets the Company’s values and 
standards
 > Reviews the performance of the 
Company’s executive management 
 > Presents a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects  
to its shareholders
The Audit Committee supports 
the Board in establishing formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering 
how it should apply the required financial 
reporting, internal control principles and 
risk management processes, and the  
audit of the Financial Statements of  
the Company.
The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on remuneration policy and 
aligning senior executives’ remuneration 
with the interests of shareholders and 
other stakeholders, particularly in the 
design of the performance-related 
elements of remuneration packages.
The Nomination Committee is responsible 
for selecting and recommending candidates 
for appointment as Executive and  
Non-Executive Directors of the Company, 
taking into account the balance, structure 
and composition of the Board, and the 
future challenges and opportunities facing  
the Company.
The terms of reference for each of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee can be found on the Company’s 
website www.essentraplc.com.
The Group Management Committee 
(“GMC”) provides general executive 
management of the Company within 
agreed delegated authority limits 
determined by the Board.
In fulfilling its role, the GMC:
 > Develops and implements strategy, 
financial and operational plans, and 
targets and allocates resources
 > Monitors and delivers financial and 
operating performance
 > Maintains an effective internal 
control framework and is responsible 
for compliance
 > Implements an effective management 
structure and develops comprehensive 
succession plans
 > Is responsible for effective internal and 
external reporting and communication
The Group Leadership Team (“GLT”) 
comprises the most senior managers 
from across the Group who are collectively 
charged with driving the Company’s Drive 
for 2020 strategic objectives. The GLT plays 
a key role in reinforcing the behaviours that 
contribute to a robust governance culture 
across the Group.
47
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Board membership and  
meeting attendance
Board Chairman: Jeff Harris
Jeff Harris 6 (6)
Paul Lester 0 (0)
Colin Day 6 (6)
Terry Twigger 6 (6)
Stefan Schellinger 1 (1)
Tommy Breen 4 (4)
Peter Hill 6 (6)
Lorraine Trainer 6 (6)
Matthew Gregory 3 (3)
Paul Drechsler 2 (2)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum 
number of meetings that could have 
been attended.
The Essentra Board is accountable to 
all the Company’s stakeholders for the 
standards of governance which are 
maintained across Essentra’s diverse 
range of global businesses. 
During the year, Essentra was and 
continues to be subject to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the  
Code”) 2014 published by the Financial 
Reporting Council, a copy of which can  
be found on its website www.frc.org.uk. 
The Board has reviewed its operations  
and governance framework and confirms 
that as at the date of this report, the 
Company has complied with the provisions 
set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, except for B.6.11. As stated in the 
Chairman’s letter, during the year there 
was not a performance evaluation review 
conducted of the Board’s effectiveness, 
nor of its Committees nor individual 
Directors.
The succession planning processes 
associated with the appointments of 
Tommy Breen and Paul Lester involved  
the Board, under the direction of the 
Nomination Committee, carrying out 
a detailed review and assessment of the 
current composition and dynamics of the 
Board as a whole, with careful consideration 
of the future needs of the Board, having 
regard to the Company’s strategic 
objectives as outlined in Drive for 2020. 
Given the nature and extent of those 
discussions and the appointments made 
during the course of 2015, the Board 
considered that there was no additional 
need to commission a separate Board 
evaluation. With Jeff Harris retiring at  
the 2016 AGM in April, no evaluation  
was undertaken of his performance as 
Chairman during 2015. The Remuneration 
and Audit Committees each undertook 
discussions regarding their respective 
performance during the year and the 
anticipated challenges in 2016 and beyond.
The Company applies the Code’s 
principles of openness, integrity and 
accountability through its own behaviour, 
corporate governance best practice and by 
adopting, as appropriate and proportionate 
for a company of the size and nature of 
Essentra, recommendations of relevant 
professional bodies.
The Board is collectively responsible for 
the long-term success of the Company, 
and its role is to provide entrepreneurial 
leadership within a framework of prudent 
and effective controls, which enables risk 
to be assessed and managed in the pursuit 
of the Company’s strategic objectives.
Board composition and independence
As at the date of this report, the Board 
has eight members, comprising a 
Non-Executive Chairman, Non-Executive 
Chairman Designate, two Executive 
Directors and four Non-Executive 
Directors. The names of the Directors 
serving during and at the end of the year 
are set out below and their biographical 
details can be found on pages 44 to 45. 
Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman
Paul Lester Non-Executive Chairman 
Designate, appointed 
23 December 2015
Colin Day Chief Executive
Terry Twigger Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director, 
appointed 23 April 2015
Peter Hill Non-Executive Director
Lorraine 
Trainer
Non-Executive Director
Stefan 
Schellinger
Executive Director, appointed 
8 October 2015
Matthew 
Gregory
Executive Director,  
resigned 28 August 2015
48
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board believes that it and its 
Committees have the appropriate 
composition to discharge their respective 
duties effectively with the appropriate level 
of challenge and level of independence, 
and that the members of the Board in 
conjunction with the senior executive 
teams are well equipped to drive, and are 
capable of delivering, the Company’s Drive 
for 2020 strategic objectives. The Board is 
of the view that it has a highly competent 
Chairman who, together with each of 
the other Non-Executive Directors, has 
considerable international experience  
at a senior level in the management of 
activities broadly similar to those carried 
out by Essentra and the material issues 
likely to arise for the Group.
As previously announced, Paul Lester will 
assume the role of Chairman at the close 
of the 2016 AGM. The Board is of the view 
that Paul will be a competent Chairman, 
and brings to the Board considerable 
international experience at a senior level  
in the management of activities broadly 
similar to those carried out by Essentra.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive are separately held and are so 
defined as to ensure a clear separation of 
responsibilities. Details are available on the 
Company’s website www.essentraplc.com. 
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures 
its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive 
is responsible for the executive 
management and performance of 
Essentra’s operations. Together with the 
primary responsibilities of the Senior 
Independent (“SI”) Non-Executive Director, 
the other Non-Executive Directors and the 
clear definition of reserved matters and 
delegated authorities, there is a system 
which exists of checks and balances in 
which no individual has unfettered 
decision-making power.
Board roles
The SI Non-Executive Director, currently 
Terry Twigger, can be contacted via the 
Company’s registered office. In that role, he 
is available to shareholders to discuss and 
develop an understanding of their issues 
and any concerns which cannot be resolved 
by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive or Group Finance Director, or 
where such contact is inappropriate. 
Chairman
 > Leads the Board
 > Ensures effective communication  
with shareholders
 > Ensures effective communication  
flows between Directors
 > Facilitates the effective 
communication of all Directors
Chief Executive
 > Implements strategy
 > Develops manageable goals 
and priorities
 > Leads and motivates the 
management teams 
 > Develops proposals to present to  
the Board on all areas reserved 
for its judgement
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary maintains a 
record of attendance at Board meetings 
and Committee meetings. The Company 
Secretary’s other responsibilities include 
ensuring good information flows to 
the Board and its Committees, and 
between senior management and 
the Non-Executive Directors, advising 
the Board on all legal and corporate 
governance matters, and assisting the 
Chairman in ensuring that the Directors 
have suitably tailored and detailed 
induction and ongoing professional 
development programmes.
The Board maintains that, for the 
year ended 31 December 2015, the 
Non-Executive Directors were each 
considered to be independent.
In assessing independence, the Board 
considers that the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors are independent 
of management and free from business 
and other relationships which could 
interfere with the exercise of independent 
judgement now and in the future. The 
Board believes that any shareholdings  
of the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors serve to align their interests  
with those of the shareholders. 
The Board considers that the  
Non-Executive Directors provide an 
independent view in Board discussions  
and in the development of the Company’s 
strategy. Non-Executive Directors also 
ensure a sound basis for good corporate 
governance for the Company, challenging 
management’s performance and, in 
conjunction with the Executive Directors, 
ensuring that rigorous financial controls 
and systems of risk management are 
maintained as appropriate to the needs  
of the businesses within Essentra. 
The Board is content that the Non-
Executive Directors devote sufficient time 
to the business of Essentra. 
 
Executive Directors may accept outside 
appointments, provided that such 
appointments do not in any way 
prejudice the ability to perform their 
duties on behalf of Essentra.
Colin Day, the Chief Executive, currently 
holds three external non-executive 
positions, but the Board is of the view 
that these are not detrimental to the 
performance of his duties given the time 
requirements involved.
49
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The letters of appointment for Non-
Executive Directors are available for  
review at the Company’s registered  
office and prior to the AGM.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
require that all new Directors seek election 
to the Board at the AGM following their 
appointment. In addition, the Board has 
agreed that, in compliance with the Code, 
all eligible Directors will put themselves 
forward for re-election on an annual basis. 
The Board is satisfied that each of the 
Directors being put forward for re-election 
at the AGM continues to be effective and 
that their ongoing commitment to the role 
is undiminished.
The conduct of Board matters
In managing the affairs of the Company, 
the Board has adopted a schedule of 
reserved matters which are to be  
reviewed annually including:
 > Strategy and resources
 > Annual plan
 > Treasury policies
 > Major capital and operating 
expenditure proposals
 > Major acquisitions and disposals
 > Debt facilities
 > Key Group policies
 > Appointments to the Board
 > Systems of internal control
 > Dividend payments
 > Categories of public announcements
The detailed implementation of all 
these, and general operational matters, 
are the responsibility of executive senior 
management and regular formal reports 
are provided to the Board.
During 2015, the Board was closely 
engaged in the detailed monitoring of 
performance and the actions necessary  
to maintain the balanced, profitable 
growth of the Company in accordance 
with its Drive to 2020 objectives, details  
of which can be found on the Company’s 
website www.essentraplc.com.
Boards and Committees
During the year, there were six scheduled 
Board meetings. In addition to these 
scheduled formal meetings, the Board 
met on a number of other occasions as 
required and, in particular, reviewed in 
detail the further development and 
delivery of the Group’s strategy.
The Chairman and Chief Executive 
maintain regular contact with the 
Directors, and the Chairman also holds 
as appropriate, from time to time, 
informal discussions with Non-Executive 
Directors individually or collectively 
without any of the Executive Directors 
being present, to review performance, 
discuss succession issues, to monitor 
corporate control mechanisms and 
to discuss any other material matters 
relevant to the Board. 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary & General Counsel, 
sets the programme for the Board during 
the year. The Board considers reports from 
the Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director covering operational, financial 
performance and other significant 
business issues. Board meetings are 
structured to allow open discussion, and 
all Directors participate in determining 
the Group’s strategy and regularly 
reviewing the trading and financial 
performance of the Company.
Committees are a valuable part of  
the Company’s corporate governance 
structure, and the Board looks to the Audit 
Committee in particular to undertake the 
majority of the work involved in monitoring 
and seeking assurance as to compliance 
with the controls within this framework. 
However, the Board as a whole maintains 
oversight of such important matters and 
after each Committee meeting, the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee reports 
on the matters which have been reviewed.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated 
to the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. These Committees report 
as appropriate to the Board. Each of 
the Committees have terms of reference 
approved by the Board, copies of which 
are available on the Company’s website 
www.essentraplc.com or on request from 
the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
Operational matters and the responsibility 
for the day-to-day management of the 
businesses are delegated to the Chief 
Executive, supported by members of senior 
executive management and the respective 
Regional Managing Directors or Presidents 
as appropriate, within delegated authority 
limits and in accordance with clearly 
defined systems of internal control. 
Essentra operates within a matrix 
organisational structure, with the 
establishment of three geographical 
regions to supplement the existing SBU 
structure. The role of the regions is to 
drive in-market execution, with the SBUs 
taking responsibility for those activities 
of a longer-term, more strategic nature.
The Board was supported during the 
year by the GMC, which ensures a strong 
link between Essentra’s overall corporate 
strategy and its implementation within  
an effective internal control environment.
The GMC, which provides general 
executive management of the Company 
within agreed delegated authority limits 
determined by the Board, consists of 
senior executive management, and the 
regional and SBU heads. 
50
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Engagement with management
The Board receives detailed reports at 
each scheduled Board meeting on the 
operational and financial performance 
of the businesses from the Chief Executive 
and the Group Finance Director, together 
with regular updates on any material 
issues which may impact the Group.
The Board received detailed presentations 
from senior management across a range of 
businesses within the Company during the 
course of the year, in addition to reviewing 
strategic plans and budgets of the Company . 
The Board also considers reports from senior 
functional management about matters of 
material importance to the Company which 
arise from time to time. 
There is a programme of meetings, both 
formal and informal, with members of 
the senior executive management and 
the Board has the opportunity to engage 
with local management during site visits. 
The Board derives a better understanding 
of the Company’s operations and business 
model as a result of such contact.
Applying Essentra’s Corporate 
Responsibility principles
The Chief Executive is the Director 
with primary responsibility for the 
implementation and integration of 
Essentra’s Corporate Responsibility 
principles across the Company. During  
2015, the Group Operations Director, 
supported by the Company Secretary 
& General Counsel, was responsible for 
co-ordinating the operation of detailed 
policies on health and safety, ethics  
and the environment which support 
Essentra’s commitment to its Corporate 
Responsibility principles. Further details  
of these policies can be viewed via the 
Corporate Responsibility page on the 
Company’s website www.essentraplc.com.
Conflict of interests
Directors have a statutory duty to  
avoid actual or potential conflicts of 
interest. The Company’s Articles of 
Association permit the Board to consider 
and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations 
where a Director has an interest that 
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with  
the interests of the Company. In addition, 
the Company has a Conflict of Interests 
policy governing the responsibilities of 
Directors in such situations. The decision  
to authorise a conflict of interest can only 
be made by non-conflicted Directors 
(those who have no interest in the matter 
being considered) and in making such  
a decision the Directors must act  
honestly and in good faith when giving 
authorisation where they think this is 
appropriate, and will be most likely  
to promote the Company’s success.  
The Company Secretary & General  
Counsel maintains a register of Directors’ 
interests so that any potential concerns 
are addressed before any material 
concerns may arise. During the course 
of the year, there were no material 
conflicts of interest impacting on the 
conduct of the Board’s activities.
Information and  
professional development
The Chairman, supported by the  
Company Secretary & General Counsel, 
takes responsibility for ensuring that the 
Directors receive accurate, timely and 
clear information.
On appointment, an induction 
programme tailored to their individual 
needs is available to Directors, and 
is designed to assist them in their 
understanding of Essentra and its 
operations. Throughout a Director’s 
tenure, they are encouraged to develop 
their knowledge of the Group through 
meetings with senior management and 
site visits. Directors are also provided with 
updates, as appropriate, on matters such 
as fiduciary duties, Companies Act 
requirements, share dealing restrictions 
and corporate governance matters. 
Both Tommy Breen and Paul Lester have 
met a number of the senior management 
team and undertaken visits to operational 
sites. It is intended that this programme 
will continue throughout 2016.
All Directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Company Secretary 
& General Counsel, who is responsible 
to the Chairman for ensuring that Board 
procedures are complied with and that 
applicable rules and regulations are 
followed. During the year under review, 
the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel’s advice was sought in relation to 
share dealings. In the furtherance of their 
duties, there are agreed procedures for the 
Directors to take independent professional 
advice, if necessary, at the Company’s 
expense. No Director took independent 
professional advice during the year.
Shareholder communications
The Board recognises the importance  
of effective communication, and seeks  
to maintain open and transparent 
relationships with its shareholders and 
other stakeholders, including providers 
of finance, customers and suppliers. This 
is achieved by regular updates through 
press announcements, the corporate 
website and other published material.
All shareholders have the opportunity  
to meet any of the Directors of the 
Company should they so wish. Feedback 
from meetings with shareholders is 
provided to the Board so they are aware  
of any issues or concerns and ensures 
that the Board has a balanced view 
from the major investors. Additionally, 
the Board uses the AGM as an occasion 
to communicate with all shareholders, 
including private investors, who are 
provided with the opportunity to question 
the Directors. At the AGM, the level of 
proxy votes lodged on each resolution is 
made available, both at the meeting and 
subsequently on the Company’s website. 
Each substantially separate issue is 
presented as a separate resolution, and 
the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees are 
available to answer questions from 
shareholders.
51
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company also communicates 
regularly with its major institutional 
shareholders and ensures that all the 
Directors, including the Non-Executive 
Directors, have an understanding of 
the views and concerns of major 
shareholders, and are able to explain 
business developments and financial 
results as appropriate. The Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director and 
Corporate Affairs Director have primary 
responsibility for investor relations. 
Presentations for analysts and 
shareholders were held during the year, 
and meetings were also undertaken 
with key institutional investors to discuss 
strategy, financial performance and 
investment activities. Slide presentations 
are made immediately available after 
the full- and half-year results, and are 
also available on the Company’s website 
to view and download. The Company 
ensures that any price-sensitive 
information is released to all shareholders 
at the same time, in accordance with 
regulatory requirements.
Financial reporting
The Directors have acknowledged, in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out on page 83, their responsibility for 
preparing the Financial Statements of the 
Company and the Group. The Directors 
are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts, and they consider 
that the Annual Report and Accounts 
taken as a whole are fair, balanced and 
understandable. The external auditor has 
included, in the Independent Auditor’s 
Report set out on pages 138 to 142, 
a statement about their reporting 
responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for  
the publication of Half Year Results,  
as required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority. This provides a general 
description of the financial position and 
performance of the Company and the 
Group during the relevant period. 
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance
In accordance with the Company’s  
Articles of Association, and to the  
extent permitted by the laws of England 
and Wales, the Directors are granted  
an indemnity from the Company in  
respect of those liabilities incurred as  
a result of their office. In respect of those 
matters for which the Directors may not 
be indemnified, the Company maintained  
a Directors’ and Officers’ Liability 
Insurance policy throughout the year. It is 
anticipated this policy will be renewed. 
Neither the Company’s indemnity nor 
the insurance provides cover to the extent 
that a Director is proven to have acted 
dishonestly or fraudulently.
Internal controls
In accordance with the Code, the Board 
acknowledges its overall responsibility to 
shareholders to ensure that an adequate 
system of risk management and internal 
control is in place. This is essential for 
reliable financial reporting and also for 
the effective management of the Group.
Overseeing the effectiveness of the  
system has been delegated to the Audit 
Committee, which assesses the quality of 
the control environment when monitoring 
and reviewing the integrity of the Group’s 
Financial Statements, and any significant 
judgements that were made in their 
preparation. Essentra’s internal controls 
are designed to safeguard the Company’s 
assets, and to ensure the integrity and 
reliability of information used both 
within the businesses and for public 
announcements. The Board has overall 
responsibility for the Company’s system  
of internal control and risk management, 
and for reviewing the effectiveness of 
this system. Such a system can only 
be designed to mitigate, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can therefore  
only provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The following procedures are in place 
which enable the Board to review the 
effectiveness of the system of 
internal control:
 > The Audit Committee meets regularly 
and reviews the effectiveness of the 
internal control environment of the 
Group
 > The Audit Committee is supported 
by the Group Assurance function, 
which undertakes extensive internal 
audit responsibilities across the Group
 > Risk management reports are 
presented which detail an analysis 
of the key risks at a Group level, 
summarise developments potentially 
impacting the Group from a risk, 
governance or compliance 
perspective, and propose actions for 
the Company in response to such 
developments 
 > The Board has the opportunity to 
review the internal control environment 
at local sites when Board meetings 
are held away from the Company’s 
head office
 > Every month, each region and SBU 
submits detailed operating and 
financial reports covering all aspects 
of performance. These are reviewed 
within the Group’s central finance 
function, and summary reports 
are communicated to the GMC 
and the Board
 > Certificates are required from the 
businesses to confirm compliance with 
the Group’s policies and procedures
 > Self-certification is required from all 
businesses, at both the half year and 
year end, to confirm compliance with 
Group financial policies and procedures
52
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Policies and procedures, which are  
subject to ongoing review and updated  
as required in response to strategic, 
operational, business, legal or regulatory 
developments, with the approval of the 
Board or its respective Committees as 
appropriate, are communicated across  
the Group. Essentra’s internal controls  
are designed to ensure significant risks, 
investment decisions and management 
issues are identified, considered and 
escalated as necessary at the earliest 
opportunity. Regional Managing Directors 
and Presidents are responsible for ensuring 
the communication of, and compliance 
with, Essentra’s internal controls across 
their respective regions. 
Control of significant risks
The Board’s responsibility for risk and risk 
management in Essentra encompasses:
 > Determining the Company’s approach 
to risk
 > Setting and instilling the appropriate 
culture throughout the Company
 > Identifying the risks inherent in 
the Company’s business model 
and strategy, including risks from 
external factors
 > Monitoring the Company’s exposure 
to risk and the key risks that could 
undermine its strategy, reputation 
or long-term viability
 > Providing an effective oversight of 
the risk management processes in 
the Company
 > Ensuring the Company has effective 
crisis management systems
A Group risk framework is in place which 
supports the Board in fulfilling these 
responsibilities and serves to reinforce  
the risk review processes embedded within 
the businesses.
The Audit Committee enhances the 
quality of the Board’s oversight of the 
risk management process within Essentra, 
but does not determine the Company’s 
attitude and tolerance for risk. 
The risk management activities  
within the Company are supported  
by the Operational Risk Management 
Committee, which reports to the Audit 
Committee through the Group Head 
of Assurance, and the Executive Risk 
Management Committee which reports  
to the Board through the Chief Executive. 
The respective risk committees met on a 
regular basis during the year and reported 
to the Board or Audit Committee, as 
appropriate, on the Company’s 
identification and mitigation of risk within 
the parameters established by the Board.
The Board is of the view that a rigorous 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing significant risks faced by  
the Company was in place throughout 
2015, and up to the date of approval of the 
2015 Annual Report. This process has been 
reviewed by the Audit Committee and 
will be assessed routinely, to ensure that 
the system of internal control and risk 
management remains fit for purpose.
The risk attitude established by the 
Board provides clarity on those areas 
where the Board wishes to take little or 
no risk, and those where the Board would 
be comfortable adopting a greater level 
of risk taking. It is intended that this 
assessment will be used to support the 
Board’s ongoing decision making and 
underpin the risk management processes 
across the Company. 
 
Risk attitude will change over time to reflect 
changes in the economic environment, 
strategy and performance of the Company, 
and it is the intention of the Board to 
review this at least on an annual basis in 
conjunction with its strategic and financial 
planning processes.
The Company has an established process 
for the development of risk practices. 
Further to the setting of the risk attitude 
by the Board, there is a more formal 
method of defining acceptable levels 
of risk within the organisation. The risk 
process has evolved and is validated 
through the preparation of risk registers 
which are used to assess risk tolerance, 
and the registers are reviewed and 
discussed by senior management prior 
to being put forward to the Audit 
Committee or the Board.
With the continued development of 
the Group Assurance function, further 
controls have been introduced to 
improve effectiveness, reduce costs 
and support business performance. 
The risk management technology 
platform continues to enhance the 
reporting tools currently being used, 
and allows the Company to improve risk 
management, develop risk strategies into 
risk mitigation and eliminate any lack of 
coverage. The platform allows real time 
reporting of risks from the operational 
businesses to the executive management.
53
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee
Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris
Membership as at 31 December 2015 
and attendance
Jeff Harris
Non-Executive Chairman
3 (6) 
Terry Twigger
SI Non-Executive Director
6 (6) 
Tommy Breen
Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Peter Hill
Non-Executive Director
6 (6) 
Lorraine Trainer
Non-Executive Director
6 (6) 
Figures in brackets denote the maximum 
number of meetings that could have  
been attended.
The Company Secretary & General  
Counsel acts as Secretary to the 
Nomination Committee.
Other attendees
The Chief Executive, Paul Drechsler 
(to April 2015) and the Group Human 
Resources Director attended by invitation 
as appropriate. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible 
for selecting and recommending candidates 
for appointment as Executive and as 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company. 
In the furtherance of these duties and 
when considering succession planning, 
the Nomination Committee looks at the 
balance, structure and composition of 
the Board and takes into account the 
future challenges and opportunities  
facing the Company. 
The Nomination Committee meets as 
required, and during 2015 it met six times. 
During the year, the Nomination 
Committee met three times to discuss 
the succession and appointment of a 
new Chairman. The current Chairman, 
Jeff Harris, did not attend those meetings 
and the SI Non-Executive Director, 
Terry Twigger, acted as Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee in his absence.
The Nomination Committee, and the 
Board as a whole, supports the spirit of 
the recommendations set out in the 
Lord Davies Report “Women on Boards” . 
Securing the right combination of skills, 
experience and expertise allows the Board 
to effectively lead the sustainable growth 
and success of the Company for the 
benefit of all stakeholders. The fundamental 
objective must be to ensure that the best 
people are appointed to do the best job 
for Essentra, taking into consideration 
other factors, such as market and 
international experience, and diversity 
of thought and background. Appointing 
people on merit, without any form of 
discrimination, is a key component of 
Essentra policies across all its international 
operations at all levels. 
Nomination Committee 2015  
key activities
 > Reviewed the composition and 
structure of the Company’s Board 
and the Committees
 > Reviewed the succession planning 
for the Board and senior executives, 
and in doing so considered diversity, 
experience, knowledge and skills
 > Reviewed the Group Conflict of 
Interests policy and register, and was 
satisfied that there were no material 
issues of conflict
 > Reviewed the capabilities of external 
consultants to assist the Committee 
in the search for, and evaluation and 
appointment of, new individuals to 
the Board and its Committees
 > Developed, in conjunction with external 
consultation, the key requirements for 
the new appointments to the Board, 
and assessed the capabilities of 
potential candidates
 > Made recommendations to the Board 
for the appointment of Paul Lester as 
Chairman Designate Stefan Schellinger 
as Group Finance Director and Tommy 
Breen as a Non-Executive Director
The Nomination Committee was satisfied 
that all the appointments made during 
the year provide the Board with additional 
skills and current experience relevant to 
the activities of the Company and its 
future development. The biographies of 
Paul Lester, Stefan Schellinger and Tommy 
Breen are available on pages 44 to 45.
JCA Group was engaged to assist the 
Committee’s review and evaluation of 
potential candidates for the role of an 
additional Non-Executive Director. 
Zygos was engaged to assist the 
Committee’s review and evaluation  
of potential candidates for the roles  
of Chairman Designate and Group  
Finance Director. 
There is no related party connection with 
JCA Group or Zygos, and their respective 
assignments were undertaken on an arms 
length basis.
54
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Dear Shareholder, 
As Chairman of the Essentra plc Audit 
Committee, I am pleased to present 
the 2015 Audit Committee Report to 
shareholders and to be able to confirm, 
on behalf of the Board, that the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that 
the Company has maintained robust 
risk management and internal controls 
throughout the year, and that the internal 
audit programme is appropriately 
formulated and sufficiently resourced to 
confirm that these controls are effective.
The updated Corporate Governance Code, 
made a number of changes in September. 
The majority of the changes focused on risk 
management and internal controls, and 
the need for them to be embedded into 
the day-to-day processes of the Company.
The two new risk committees which were 
introduced towards the end of 2014 have 
contributed to the enhancement of the risk 
management process. The risk committees 
report directly to the Board, and the Audit 
Committee ensures the risk management 
processes are effective.
The report aims to provide the following 
information:
 > How the Audit Committee operates 
and engages with the Company, 
including the Group Assurance 
function and the Executive Directors
 > The key activities which were reviewed 
by the Audit Committee, including 
those items of regular annual review 
and other current areas of focus
 > The discussions and actions 
undertaken, in conjunction with the 
external auditor, on any significant 
judgements and / or issues
 > Details of the ongoing review of the 
external auditor and the amount of 
non-audit work undertaken
The Audit Committee has reported to the 
Board that the re-appointment of KPMG 
LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming 
AGM, and I hope that you will support me in 
this resolution. I am pleased to report that 
the Audit Committee intends to commence 
an audit tender during 2016. While the 
Audit Committee is recommending the 
appointment of KPMG for the 2016 audit, 
it is intention to proceed with a full tender 
for the 2017 audit, after the 2016 AGM, in 
response to the EU tendering requirements.
TERRY TWIGGER
Audit Committee Chairman
19 February 2016
55
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger
Committee membership and 
meeting attendance
Terry Twigger 
SI Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Tommy Breen 
Non-Executive Director
2 (3)
Peter Hill 
Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Lorraine Trainer  
Non-Executive Director 
4 (4)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum 
number of meetings that could have  
been attended.
Tommy Breen was unable to attend 
one meeting due to an existing 
commitment prior to his appointment 
to the Audit Committee.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Other attendees
The external auditor, Chairman of the 
Board, Group Finance Director, Paul 
Drechsler (February meeting only), 
Group Head of Assurance and members 
of the GMC attended meetings by 
invitation, as appropriate. During the year, 
the Audit Committee met the external 
auditor, KPMG LLP , and the Group Head of 
Assurance without the Executive Directors 
being present.
Governance
All the Audit Committee members are 
independent Non-Executive Directors, and 
have financial and / or related business 
experience gained in senior positions in 
other large diverse organisations.
Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee since 2009, and the 
Board is satisfied that Terry has recent 
and relevant financial experience, further 
details of which can be found on page 44.
The Audit Committee supports the  
Board and reports to it on a regular basis, 
certainly no less frequently than at every 
Board meeting following a meeting of 
the Audit Committee. 
There is an annual cycle of items  
that are to be considered by the Audit 
Committee. The timetable of these  
items is scheduled in accordance with  
the requirements of the annual audit  
cycle and any other requirements of the 
Audit Committee. The responsibilities  
of the Audit Committee are defined in  
its terms of reference, which are reviewed 
annually and copies of which are available  
at www.essentraplc.com. 
Significant financial judgements  
for 2015
Tax liabilities
The Group is, from time to time, subject  
to tax assessments which may represent 
potential future tax exposures, which arise 
in the ordinary course of business from tax 
authorities in a number of the jurisdictions 
in which the Group operates. The Group 
assesses all such exposures in the context 
of the tax laws of the countries in which 
it operates and, where applicable, makes 
provisions for any settlements which it 
considers appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviewed the  
tax liabilities which existed at the start  
of the year and those created during the 
year and the effective tax rate, together 
with their corresponding assumptions.  
The Audit Committee questioned and 
challenged the Group Finance Director as 
to the Company’s risk attitude in this area. 
Having considered the explanations 
and rationale provided by the Company, 
and taking this into consideration, along 
with the conclusion of the external auditor, 
the Audit Committee was satisfied that 
the tax liabilities were appropriate, and 
that the Group’s tax disclosures were 
adequate given the nature of the activity 
undertaken by the Group.
Other provisions
The Group holds provisions in relation  
to exposures in cases where there is a 
probable legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of a past event. These provisions 
are categorised as Reorganisation and 
Other. Provisions for Reorganisation 
represent exit and redundancy costs  
for sites where there is a constructive 
obligation in place for closure at the 
balance sheet date. Other provisions 
contain warranty, onerous lease and 
dilapidations provisions, which have 
arisen in the ongoing business as well 
as in those which have been acquired. 
The Audit Committee noted that, by their 
nature, these provisions are judgemental, 
reflecting management’s assessment of 
a number of variables (including possible 
amounts and timing), but that the 
Company had continued to adopt a 
consistent approach in accordance with its 
relevant policies and an appropriate level of 
prudence. After careful consideration of the 
rationale, outlined by the Group Finance 
Director, the Audit Committee was satisfied 
that the Company’s treatment of these 
items was appropriate, and concurred with 
the accounting treatment for the externally 
reported provisions.
Revenue recognition
There are a large number of sales 
transactions that are incurred across the 
Group where the estimation of product 
returns and warranty require significant 
judgement. Given the risk that sales may 
be recognised in the incorrect period over 
reporting dates, the Group needs to ensure 
that there are effective controls regarding 
the recording of sales transactions. 
Revenue recognition was considered as a 
key area of audit focus, and the external 
auditor addressed the potential issue with 
the Audit Committee during the planning  
of the external audit process and scope. 
The Group Finance Director outlined the 
direction given to the finance and 
commercial organisations on all aspects of 
revenue recognition, as well as the reviews 
undertaken by management. 
56
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Group Finance Director also 
acknowledged the degree of reliance on 
local judgement, but emphasised that 
in-market controls and internal reporting 
requirements would make it unlikely that 
there were material or systematic errors. 
The Audit Committee was notified of 
the changes to revenue recognition which 
will occur as a result of the implementation 
of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers effective for the year ending  
31 December 2018, and which will involve 
significant judgements and has extensive 
disclosure requirements. The Group 
Finance Director informed the Audit 
Committee that the Company will 
undertake a thorough review of the 
impact of the changes during the course 
of 2016 and 2017 with the assistance of the 
external auditor, and will discuss this with 
the Audit Committee at future meetings.
Acquisition accounting
As a result of the Group’s recent acquisitions, 
there are significant intangible assets and 
goodwill recognised on the balance sheet. 
The valuation of these assets is based 
on sales forecasts, discount rates and 
other key assumptions which are subject 
to significant judgement. Other assets 
and liabilities acquired are recognised at 
their fair value on acquisition date. The fair 
value adjustments are also subject to key 
assumptions based on market data and 
valuation techniques, including discounted 
cash flows. 
Acquisition accounting was considered 
as a key area of audit focus, and the 
external auditor addressed the potential 
issue with the Audit Committee during 
the planning of the external audit process 
and scope. The Audit Committee noted 
that management had engaged with 
suitably qualified external parties to provide 
valuations of the intangible assets and 
properties, and that the methodologies 
used by the advisers were consistent with 
those used by the Company in the past. 
The external auditor used its own valuation 
specialists to critically challenge the key 
valuation assumptions and methodologies. 
After careful consideration of the reports 
from the Company and the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee was 
satisfied with the assumptions made and 
the judgements applied, and that the 
Company’s approach to acquisition 
accounting was appropriate and in line 
with accounting standards.
Audit Committee 2015 key activities
Financial Statements and reports
 > Examined the 31 December 2014 
Annual Report and Accounts and 
the 30 June 2015 Half Year Report. 
This involved reviewing, challenging 
and recommending for approval the 
going concern basis of preparation, 
the accounting policies and disclosures, 
the financial reporting issues and the 
assumptions and judgements made
 > Reviewed in detail the key judgements 
of the Financial Statements and levels 
of disclosure
 > Reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal controls and disclosures 
made in the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements
 > Reviewed the impact of new IFRS 
pronouncements
 > Reviewed the key responsibilities of the 
Directors, particularly in relation to the 
issues which should be considered in 
order to conclude the annual accounts 
are fair, balanced and understandable
 > Considered the accounting principles 
to be adopted in the preparation of 
the 2016 accounts
Risk management and internal audit
 > Reviewed and considered reports  
from the Group Head of Assurance, 
including any issues relating to internal 
controls and the status of actions taken 
in response to any identified concerns
 > Monitored the development of risk 
management practices through the 
Group Assurance function
 > Received reports from the Group  
Head of Assurance regarding the 
activities of the Operational Risk 
Management and the Executive 
Risk Management Committees
 > Assessed the areas of focus for 
internal audit and the adequacy 
of coverage, having regard to the 
potential risks impacting the Group
 > Reviewed the output from the Group 
processes used to identify, evaluate 
and mitigate risk, and considered the 
key risks arising from the Company’s 
activities and the response of senior 
management to those challenges
 > Assessed the Company’s response  
to cyber security and information 
technology risks
 > Reviewed the adequacy of the 
Company’s resources in relation to 
financial reporting, tax and treasury 
management requirements
 > Oversaw compliance activities while 
monitoring the regulatory environment, 
and assessed any impact to the business
 > Reviewed the Company’s 
whistleblowing processes and reports 
made during the year under its Right 
to Speak policy
 > Reviewed and considered the Human 
Resources risk review report
 > Considered the development and 
testing of the Company’s business 
continuity plans
57
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee takes responsibility 
for reviewing the Group’s internal controls 
through its engagement with the Group 
Assurance function. The Group Head 
of Assurance is responsible for providing 
assurances as to the adequacy of internal 
controls throughout the Company, and 
attends each Audit Committee meeting. 
Prior to the start of each year, the Audit 
Committee agrees the annual internal 
audit plan, which is drawn up on a risk-
based approach across a broad section of 
the Company’s activities. Any significant 
findings from internal control audits 
undertaken during the year have been 
appropriately investigated, and necessary 
action taken to address and rectify any 
weaknesses that may have been identified. 
With the significant growth and 
acquisition activity undertaken by the 
Company, and the expansion into new 
markets and geographies, the Audit 
Committee has sought assurance that 
the internal controls, together with risk 
management and compliance activities, 
have continued to develop in accordance 
with all relevant requirements, and that 
appropriate resource is being made 
available to respond to those demands. 
During the year, the Audit Committee 
continued to review the Company’s cyber 
security capabilities and received regular 
presentations from both the Group 
Finance Director and the Chief Information 
Officer. The Audit Committee noted the 
comprehensive Information Technology 
scorecard which had been devised to 
detail the key actions being undertaken, 
and the extent of the progress during 
the year. One of the key improvement 
initiatives was the commencement of 
the “Standard Desktop” project which 
bought the Group’s entire laptop 
infrastructure and email environments 
together, to enable the central IT function 
to monitor activity across the Group, 
deploy updates and controls remotely  
and guarantee a consistent set-up on 
each machine.
The Audit Committee continued its focus 
on the Group’s compliance activities and 
received regular presentations from the 
Company Secretary & General Counsel. 
The Audit Committee noted the 
investment made by the Company in  
new systems designed to better facilitate 
compliance policy management and 
training across the Group, and deliver  
due diligence processes to assist in the 
management of third-party risk. 
External auditor and non-audit work
 > Reviewed and agreed the scope of 
the audit work to be undertaken by 
the external auditor
 > Agreed the terms of engagement and 
fees to be paid to the external auditor 
for their audit of the 31 December 2015 
Financial Statements
 > Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, 
resources and independence of the 
external auditor, and assessed their 
performance 
 > Reviewed proposals for the engagement 
of the external auditor for non-audit 
services, and confirmed that their 
independence was safeguarded 
The internal procedures implemented  
by the Company to ensure the Board 
maintains overall control for all material 
strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance matters affecting the 
Company are included within the  
internal control section of this Report. 
The Board establishes the standards  
and values that govern the Group, and 
agrees the structure of the Group’s  
internal controls.
Engagement of the external auditor
Although the external auditor has been 
in place since the Company’s public listing 
in 2005, the external auditor periodically 
changes the audit partners at a Group, 
divisional and country level in accordance 
with professional and regulatory standards, 
in order to protect independence and
objectivity and provide fresh challenge  
to the business. Such changes are carefully 
planned, to ensure that the Group benefits 
from staff continuity without incurring 
undue risk of inefficiency.
The external auditor provides the Audit 
Committee with relevant reports, reviews, 
information and advice throughout the year, 
as set out in the terms of their engagement. 
Their performance was formally assessed by 
the Audit Committee in conjunction with 
the executive management team, and the 
Audit Committee is satisfied that the 
external auditor continues to be effective 
and provides appropriate independent 
challenge of the Company’s management. 
In making its assessment of the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee had due 
regard to their expertise, resourcing and 
independence. 
As such, the Audit Committee has 
not considered it necessary this year 
to conduct a tender process for the 
appointment of its external auditor. 
Having carried out the review described 
above, and having satisfied itself that 
the external auditor remains independent 
and effective, the Audit Committee has 
recommended to the Board that the 
external auditor be reappointed at the 
2016 AGM.
The Audit Committee has been kept 
up-to-date with the development of  
new EU-wide regulations concerning  
audit tenure and the longevity of audit 
firm relationships with companies  
they audit.
Under EU transitional arrangements,  
the current intention is to initiate an  
audit re-tender during the course of  
2016. There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Audit Committee’s choice 
of external auditor.
58
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE To fulfil its responsibility regarding the 
independence of the external auditor,  
the Audit Committee reviewed:
 > Changes in senior audit personnel in 
the audit plan for the current year
 > A report from the external auditor 
describing the arrangements to 
identify, report and manage any 
conflicts of interest
 > The extent of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor
To assess the effectiveness of the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:
 > The external auditor’s fulfilment of the 
agreed audit plan and variations from 
it, and reports highlighting the major 
issues that arose during the course of 
the audit
 > Feedback from the businesses 
evaluating the performance of each 
audit team
The external auditor is engaged to express 
an opinion on the Financial Statements. 
The audit includes the review and test of 
the system of internal financial control 
and the data contained in the Financial 
Statements, to the extent necessary for 
expressing an audit opinion on the truth 
and fairness of the Financial Statements.
Non-audit services policy
The importance of maintaining the 
objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor, by minimising its 
involvement in projects of a non-audit 
nature, is of fundamental concern to 
the Audit Committee. It is, however, also 
acknowledged that, due to its detailed 
understanding of the Company’s business, 
it may sometimes be necessary to involve 
the external auditor in non-audit related 
work, principally comprising further 
assurance services relating to due diligence 
and other duties carried out in respect of 
acquisitions, disposals and tax services. 
The Audit Committee has adopted a 
policy in relation to the engagement of 
the external auditor to supply non-audit 
services, with defined parameters and 
approval requirements in relation to any 
such appointments.
Details of the fees paid to KPMG LLP 
during the year can be found in note 2  
to the Financial Statements on page 101.
59
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder , 
At the 2015 AGM we sought shareholder 
approval for a new Remuneration 
Policy (“the Policy”) which was aligned 
with the strategic objectives of Drive 
for 2020. The Remuneration Committee 
was delighted to receive strong support 
from our shareholders, with over 97% 
in favour for the new Policy. 
A summary of the Policy is included, for 
the reference of shareholders, on pages 
62 to 66, and a copy of the full Policy as 
approved by shareholders is available at 
www.essentraplc.com.
The Annual Report on Remuneration (“the 
ARR”) on pages 67 to 78 contains details of 
the remuneration received by the Directors 
in 2015, together with full details of how we 
intend to implement the Policy during 2016. 
The ARR will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Supporting strategic priorities
The Policy has been structured to support 
the financial objectives and strategic 
priorities of Drive for 2020, in a manner 
that is aligned with shareholders’ interests. 
The Remuneration Committee’s 
implementation of the Policy during  
the year has been consistent with  
these principles:
 > Supporting financial objectives:  
Key financial objectives that underlie 
Drive for 2020 are balanced, profitable 
growth and strong conversion of profit 
into cash. The Remuneration 
Committee has set performance 
measures for the annual bonus and 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)  
that reward delivery of these financial 
objectives. Performance targets have 
been set that are consistent with Drive 
for 2020, in particular the aspiration  
of doubling the size of the Company 
by 2020.
 > Supporting strategic priorities:  
Our Drive for 2020 strategy requires 
development of a focused and 
high-performing executive team. 
During the past year, the Remuneration 
Committee, in conjunction with the 
Nomination Committee, has been 
focused on ensuring that a seamless 
succession planning process was 
implemented for the Group Finance 
Director and Company Chairman roles. 
The Remuneration Committee has also 
ensured that it continues to set 
challenging performance targets that 
will drive excellence throughout the 
senior executive team.
 > Providing alignment with shareholders: 
Underlying Drive for 2020 is a focus on 
sustainable value creation. During the  
year, the Remuneration Committee 
approved an award over a fixed number 
of LTIP shares to senior executives. Those  
individuals will receive an award over the 
same number of shares in both 2016 
and 2017 , to provide direct alignment 
with the strategy of value creation.  
In order to provide consistency with 
the logic underlying the Policy, the 
Remuneration Committee determined 
that the new Group Finance Director 
should receive LTIP awards in 2016 and 
2017 over the same number of shares 
as were awarded to his predecessor  
in 2015.
Rewarding performance in 2015
The financial and operating performance 
of Essentra during 2015 is set out on pages 
2 to 41 in the Strategic Report. As reported, 
we delivered our strategic objectives, in 
addition to exceeding £1bn of revenue 
for the first time in the Company’s history, 
notwithstanding the significant impact  
of challenges in the oil & gas sector  
on our PPT business. As a result of  
this performance, the Remuneration 
Committee determined that the annual 
bonus would be 30.8% of the maximum 
for Colin Day and 29.3% of the maximum 
for Stefan Schellinger (pro-rated from 
date of appointment as Group Finance 
Director). Full details of the basis for 
the Remuneration Committee’s bonus 
determination are set out on page 69.
The three-year performance period for 
the Earnings per Share (“EPS”) element of 
the 2013 LTIP awards was completed at 
the end of 2015. The maximum EPS growth 
target was exceeded, and so this element 
of the awards will vest in full during 2016. 
The performance period for the relative 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) element 
of the 2013 awards will end during 2016, 
and partial vesting is anticipated. Full 
details are set out on pages 71 to 72.
 
60
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Departure of former Group  
Finance Director
Matthew Gregory resigned as Group 
Finance Director on 28 August 2015. 
Matthew remained as an employee until  
30 November 2015, and continued to 
receive salary and benefits until that date. 
He received no bonus in respect of 2015, 
and all of his outstanding share awards  
at the date of his departure lapsed, 
including the Deferred Annual Share  
Bonus awards.
Appointment of new Group  
Finance Director
Stefan Schellinger was initially appointed 
as interim Group Finance Director on  
1 September 2015, before being appointed 
on a permanent basis on 8 October  
2015. Upon this appointment, Stefan’s 
remuneration was reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee, taking into 
account all relevant factors including his 
experience, the pay level of his predecessor 
and the principles of our Policy. Details of 
Stefan’s new pay arrangements are set  
out in the ARR on pages 67 to 78.
Decisions for 2016
Full details of the remuneration structure 
for our Executive Directors for 2016 are 
outlined on pages 63 to 66. Specific points 
to highlight in relation to that structure are 
as follows:
 > Colin Day’s salary is fixed until  
1 January 2018 and Stefan Schellinger’s 
salary will not be reviewed until  
1 January 2017 . There will therefore 
be no salary adjustments for the 
Executive Directors in 2016.
 > The 2016 annual bonus plan will 
offer the same level of potential 
reward as the 2015 plan. It will be 
based on financial measures, 
targets and personal objectives 
aligned with Drive for 2020, which 
should drive longer-term shareholder 
value creation.
 > Consistent with the principles of the 
Policy, the Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director will receive LTIP 
awards in 2016 over the same number 
of shares as were awarded to the 
holders of these positions in 2015.  
LTIP awards will continue to be based 
half on a relative TSR performance 
condition and half on an adjusted EPS 
performance condition, in order to 
reward the delivery of longer-term 
shareholder value creation. For 2016, 
the EPS performance conditions will 
remain the same as 2015, at 8% pa  
to 15% pa growth.
I hope you will find this report to be  
clear and helpful in understanding our 
remuneration practices, and that you will 
be supportive of the resolution relating to 
remuneration at the AGM. As ever, the 
Remuneration Committee welcomes any 
questions or comments from shareholders.
LORRAINE TRAINER
Remuneration Committee Chairman
19 February 2016
61
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER This Remuneration Policy Report 
(“the Report”) sets out the policies under 
which the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors are remunerated. This Report, 
together with the Annual Report on 
Remuneration, is intended to be in full 
compliance with the requirements of the 
Large and Medium-Sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013, the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2008 
(as amended) issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council and the Listing Rules.
The current Remuneration Policy  
(“the Policy”), a summary of which is set 
out below, was approved by shareholders 
at the 2015 AGM and was effective from 
1 January 2015. There have been no changes 
to the Policy during the year ended 31 
December 2015, and therefore the Policy 
will not be subject to a vote at the 2016 
AGM. The Policy can be found, in full, on 
the Company’s website www.essentraplc.
com or in the Essentra Annual Report 2014, 
a copy of which can be obtained from the 
Company’s registered office or downloaded 
from www.essentraplc.com.
Summary of components of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee structures 
senior executive remuneration in two 
distinct parts: (i) fixed remuneration of 
basic annual salary, pension and benefits; 
and (ii) variable, performance-related 
remuneration in the form of a cash bonus, 
deferred share bonus and long-term 
incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors  
is structured so that the variable, 
performance-related pay element forms  
a significant portion of each package.  
The majority of total remuneration at the 
maximum performance level will derive  
from the Company’s long-term incentive 
arrangements, which are aligned to 
Essentra’s ambition under Drive for 2020  
to create long-term shareholder value.
62
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Policy table
1
  During 2015, Stefan Schellinger replaced Matthew Gregory as Group Finance Director. Stefan Schellinger’s salary was set at £360,000 upon his permanent 
appointment to the role in October 2015 and will be reviewed in January 2017
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Basic annual salary
To reflect the 
particular skills and 
experience of an 
individual and  
to provide a 
competitive
basic salary
For the duration of this Remuneration Policy,  
basic salaries of the current Executive Directors will  
be set at levels not exceeding those set out in this 
table. These salaries have been set by reference to  
a rounded assessment which considers:
 > The skills, performance and experience  
of the individual
 > Their roles and responsibilities
 > External market data
Colin Day:
£675,000 (fixed until  
1 January 2018)
Matthew Gregory
1
:
 > From 1 January 2015: 
£340,000
 > From 1 January 2016: 
£375,000
 > From 1 January 2017: 
£390,000
Not applicable
Annual bonus
To incentivise the 
delivery of Company 
performance-
related objectives, 
to aid retention and 
to align Directors’ 
interests with those 
of the Company’s 
shareholders
One half of the total annual bonus is paid in cash 
shortly after the announcement of the annual 
results. The other half is deferred into shares in the 
Deferred Annual Share Bonus award (the “DASB”), 
which will normally vest after three years subject 
to continued service
Performance is assessed against measures and targets 
which are established on an annual basis by the 
Remuneration Committee. As performance increases, 
so does the percentage payable up to the maximum
The bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions 
for a period of three years following the determination 
of the bonus. Circumstances in which these provisions 
could be applied by the Remuneration Committee are 
material misstatement in the Company’s Financial 
Statements, error in assessing the performance 
conditions, serious misconduct by an individual  
or serious reputational damage to the Company  
or a relevant business unit
An additional payment (in the form of cash or shares) 
may be made in respect of shares which vest under 
deferred awards, to reflect the value of dividends 
which would have been paid on those shares during 
the vesting period (this payment may assume that 
dividends had been reinvested in Company shares 
on a cumulative basis)
Chief Executive – 150%  
of basic salary
Group Finance Director 
– 125% of basic salary
The bonus will be based 
on performance assessed 
over one year using 
appropriate financial, 
strategic and individual 
performance measures
The majority of the 
bonus will be determined 
by measure(s) of the 
Company’s financial 
performance
The remainder of the 
bonus will be based 
on financial, strategic 
or operational measures 
appropriate to the 
individual Director
The selected measures 
for the next financial year 
are set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration 
on page 77
63
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 (“LTIP 2015”)
To drive the  
long-term delivery 
of the Company’s 
strategic objectives, 
with particular focus 
on the delivery of 
Drive for 2020, to 
aid retention and 
to align Directors’ 
interests with those 
of the Company’s 
shareholders
An annual award of performance share awards  
with a three-year performance, and usually with  
a three-year vesting, period
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions 
for a period of three years following the vesting of 
the awards. Circumstances in which these provisions 
could be applied by the Remuneration Committee 
are material misstatement in the Company’s Financial 
Statements, error in assessing the performance 
conditions, serious misconduct by an individual or 
serious reputational damage to the Company or a 
relevant business unit
An additional payment (in the form of cash or shares) 
may be made in respect of shares which vest under 
LTIP 2015 awards, to reflect the value of dividends 
which would have been paid on those shares during 
the vesting period (this payment may assume that 
dividends had been reinvested in Company shares  
on a cumulative basis)
An award to any 
Executive Director is 
limited to a maximum  
of 300% of salary, with 
the exception that  
Colin Day and Matthew 
Gregory
1
 will receive a 
fixed award over up to  
the same number of 
performance shares in 
each of 2016 and 2017  
as were awarded to  
them in 2015
The basis for the 
determination of the  
size of the 2015 award  
for each of Colin Day and 
Matthew Gregory, within 
the 300% of salary limit, 
is outlined in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration
Vesting will be subject to 
performance conditions, 
as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee 
on an annual basis. The 
performance conditions 
will usually consist of 
relative TSR performance 
and adjusted EPS 
performance, measured 
over a three-year period
The Remuneration 
Committee may adjust 
the weightings of the 
performance conditions 
to include an additional or 
alternative performance 
measure which is aligned 
with the corporate 
strategy. 25% of each 
element vests at threshold 
performance, usually 
rising on a straight-line 
basis for performance up 
to the maximum level for 
full payment
Policy table
1
  During 2015 Stefan Schellinger replaced Matthew Gregory as Group Finance Director. Stefan will receive a fixed LTIP award in 2016 and 2017 over the same 
number of performance shares as were awarded to Matthew Gregory in 2015 subject to the value of those shares as at the date of grant not exceeding 
the individual limit of 300% salary
64
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
All employee plans
To create alignment 
of employees’ 
interests with those 
of shareholders, and 
an awareness of the 
Company’s share 
price performance
Under the UK Sharesave, employees (including 
Executive Directors) are invited to enter a savings 
contract of three years or five years, whereby the 
proceeds can be used towards the exercise of  
an option granted at the time they participate.  
The option price can be up to a 20% discount  
to the share price at the time invitations to  
participate are issued
An equivalent US plan is operated in a similar 
manner to the UK Sharesave, although with a 
two-year savings contract and an option price  
of up to a 15% discount
For the UK plan, shares 
worth up to the value of 
the savings an Executive 
Director agrees to make 
over the saving period at 
the previously agreed 
option price. The savings 
amount is subject to the 
HMRC limit, currently 
£500 per month
The US plan is limited 
to the monthly dollar 
equivalent of the UK 
Sharesave plan
No performance 
conditions apply to  
all employee plans
Pension
To provide 
cost-effective 
long-term benefits 
comparable with 
similar roles in 
similar companies
A contribution to a defined contribution plan or paid 
as a cash supplement
Chief Executive – 25% of 
basic salary
Group Finance Director
– 20% of basic salary
Not applicable
Other benefits
To provide cost-
effective benefits 
comparable with 
similar roles in 
similar companies
Other benefits include medical expenses, life 
insurance, a company car and / or car allowance 
and fuel allowance
The Remuneration Committee may vary these 
benefits from time to time to suit business needs, 
but they will be provided on broadly similar terms  
to those offered to other Group employees
Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement  
of reasonable expenses
There is no overall 
maximum, as the level of 
benefits depends on the 
annual cost of providing 
individual items in the 
relevant local market  
and the individual’s 
specific role
Not applicable
Policy table
65
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
Policy table
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Shareholding requirement
To align the 
interests of 
Executive Directors 
and shareholders, 
and to encourage a 
focus on long-term 
performance and 
risk management
These shareholding guidelines are to be built up over 
five years from date of appointment
The Remuneration Committee will review progress 
towards the guidelines on an annual basis, and has 
the discretion to adjust the guidelines in what it feels 
are appropriate circumstances
The guideline minimum 
level is 300% of basic 
salary for the Chief 
Executive and 200% of 
basic salary for the Group 
Finance Director
Non-Executive Directors 
are encouraged to hold a 
minimum of 7 ,500 shares
Not applicable
Non-Executive Directors Fees
To attract  
high-calibre 
Non-Executive 
Directors with  
the relevant 
experience  
and skills
The fee for the Chairman of the Board is determined 
by the Remuneration Committee, while the fees for 
Non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole
A basic fee is payable to all Non-Executive Directors 
with supplementary fees for those with additional 
responsibilities, such as acting as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director or chairing a Board Committee
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis with reference 
to market levels in companies of a comparable  
size and complexity, and taking account of the 
responsibilities and time commitment of each role
No Non-Executive Director participates in the 
Group’s incentive arrangements or pension plan,  
or receives any other benefits other than where 
travel to the Company’s registered office is 
recognised as a taxable benefit, in which case a 
Non-Executive Director may receive the grossed-up 
costs of travel as a benefit
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to 
reimbursement of reasonable expenses
Fees for the current year 
are stated in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration
Fee increases may be 
greater than those of 
the wider workforce in 
any particular year, as 
they reflect changes to 
responsibilities and 
time commitments, 
and the periodic nature 
of any increases
Not applicable
66
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM Committee Chairman: Lorraine Trainer
Committee membership and 
meeting attendance
Lorraine Trainer 
Non-Executive Director 
4 (4)
Tommy Breen 
Non-Executive Director
2 (3)
Terry Twigger 
SI Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Peter Hill 
Non-Executive Director
4 (4)
Tommy Breen was unable to attend 
one meeting due to an existing 
commitment prior to his appointment 
to the Remuneration Committee.
The Company Secretary & General  
Counsel acts as Secretary to the 
Remuneration Committee.
Other attendees
During the year, the Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, and the Group Human 
Resources Director were invited by the 
Remuneration Committee to provide  
views and advice.
In addition, with the approval of the 
Remuneration Committee, the 
Company received services and advice 
from the following independent and 
expert consultants:
 > Deloitte LLP , who are a member of 
the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and have signed up to its Code of 
Conduct, provided advice on the 
Company’s long-term share incentive 
plan, and on the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and other senior 
executives within the Company. Fees 
charged for the year under review are 
£80,275. Deloitte also provided tax 
services to the Company during 2015
 > New Bridge Street, a part of Aon 
Hewitt, who are a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group 
and have signed up to its Code of 
Conduct, provided advice on the 
Company’s long-term share incentive 
plans. Fees charged for the year under 
review were £27 ,011. Aon Hewitt also 
provided actuarial advice to the 
Company for its US pension scheme 
and are appointed as the Group’s 
insurance broker 
 
The Remuneration Committee 
continuously monitors and reviews the 
Company’s relationship with independent 
advisers. The Company is comfortable 
that no conflicts of interest exist.
Remuneration Committee  
2015 key activities
 > Approved the Remuneration Report 
for the Annual Report 2014
 > Reviewed and approved a UK 
Sharesave invitation for 2015
 > Reviewed and approved a US Stock 
Purchase plan invitation for 2015
 > Approved the cash bonus paid in 2015, 
based on the achievements of the 
2014 objectives 
 > Approved the bonus rules and  
targets for 2015, including the 
personal objectives for the Group 
Management Committee
 > Approved the LTIP 2015 grant of 
awards made in April 2015
 > Monitored the Group Leadership 
Team’s shareholding requirements
 > Approved the remuneration for  
the new Group Finance Director 
in line with the Company’s  
Remuneration Policy
 > Confirmed the Executive  
Directors fixed salaries in line with  
the Remuneration Policy and the 
Company Secretary’s basic salary  
for 2016
 > Considered and approved, as 
appropriate, good leaver terms,  
for participants in the Company’s 
share incentive plans who left 
the business 
 > Reviewed the senior executive 
remuneration risk policy 
 > Reviewed shareholder feedback on the 
2014 Remuneration Report, including 
the 2015 AGM voting results
 > Approved the remuneration for the 
new Chairman Designate in line with 
the Company’s Remuneration Policy
 > Reviewed the remuneration for the 
Group Management Committee
67
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section of the Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
Total Single Remuneration Table for 2015 (audited)
The remuneration received by Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 (and the 31 December 2014 comparative)  
was as follows:
Year
Salary and  
fees for the year  
or from date of 
appointment
Taxable 
benefits
1
£000
Cash in 
lieu of 
pension
2
£000
Bonus (cash 
and deferred 
shared)
3
£000
Long-Term 
Incentive  
Plan
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Executive Directors
Colin Day 2015 675 31 169 312 1,400
4
15
6
2,602 
2014 618 27 155 557 4,304
5
– 5,661
Stefan Schellinger
7
2015 84 3 17 31 165
4
– 300 
2014 – – – – – – –
Matthew Gregory
8
2015⁷ 224 9 45 – – – 278
2014 300 15 60 225 816⁵ – 1,416
Non–Executive Directors
Jeff Harris 2015 200 – – – – – 200
2014 190 – – – – – 190
Paul Lester 2015 3 – – – – – 3
2014 – – – – – – –
Tommy Breen 2015 36 – – – – – 36
2014 – – – – – – –
Peter Hill 2015 52 – – – – – 52
2014 50 – – – – – 50
Lorraine Trainer 2015 63 – – – – – 63
2014 57 – – – – – 57
Terry Twigger 2015 70 – – – – – 70
2014 64 – – – – – 64
Paul Drechsler
9
2015 22 – – – – – 22
2014 55 – – – – – 55
1
 Taxable benefits comprise a fully expensed car and / or cash allowance plus private medical insurance and life insurance cover
2
 Colin Day received a pension contribution of 25% of basic salary while Stefan Schellinger and Matthew Gregory received a pension contribution of 20%  
of basic salary (inclusive of 5% of salary paid into the Company scheme by the Company) 
3
 50% of the annual bonus is deferred into shares for a period of three years. Further details on the bonus relating to performance in 2015 are set out 
on page 69 
4
 These values represent the estimated value of vesting of LTIP B awards whose performance conditions ended (or were substantially complete) on  
31 December 2015. The actual vesting date for these awards will be during 2016 
5
 The values of these awards have been restated to reflect the actual value at the date of vesting. For the LTIP B August 2011 award, this reflects a 100% vesting 
and a share price of £9 .63 as at 20 February 2015 compared to the estimated 100% vesting and a share price of £7 .33 used in last year’s table. For the LTIP B 
April 2012 award, this reflects a 100% vesting and a share price of £9 .80 as at 27 April 2015 compared to the estimated 84.6% vesting and a share price of 
£7 .33 used in last year’s table
6
 Exercise of a three-year savings contract in the Company’s Sharesave scheme. The valuation is the difference between the exercise price and the option price 
on the date of exercise
7
 Stefan Schellinger’s pay is shown from the date of his appointment to the Board on 8 October 2015
8
 Salary, benefits and pension were paid, as a Director, to the date of resignation, 28 August 2015. Matthew Gregory continued as an employee until  
30 November 2015. All incentive plans including Deferred Bonus Plan awards lapsed as at the date of leaving
9
 Paul Drechsler’s fees were paid, to the date of retirement 23 April 2015
Outside appointments (unaudited)
Colin Day held the following non-executive director appointments during the year ended 31 December 2015; AMEC Foster Wheeler  
plc, Meggitt PLC (from 1 October 2015), FM Global and WPP Group plc (to 9 June 2015). Colin received fees of £330,000 in respect  
of these directorships.
68
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual bonus (audited)
Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2015, Colin Day was potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 150% 
of basic salary and Stefan Schellinger was, in relation to his period as an Executive Director, potentially entitled to a maximum bonus 
of up to 125% of basic salary pro-rated from the date of his appointment to the Board. Following his resignation, Matthew Gregory 
was not entitled to a bonus payment in relation to 2015.
Bonus payments are normally made one half in cash and one half in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being 
deferred for three years, in accordance with the rules of the DASB.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the performance measures for the Executive Directors were based upon balanced growth, 
working capital and personal objectives. Balanced growth combines revenue and operating profit performance measured via a 
balanced scorecard. There is no payout under the balanced growth measure if either revenue growth or operating profit growth 
fails to achieve a base level of performance.
Performance 
measure
Proportion of  
bonus determined  
by measure
Base  
performance
Target 
performance
Stretch 
performance
Actual 
performance
% of maximum 
bonus payable
Balanced 
growth
80% Operating profit 16.0% growth 19 .9% growth 22.5% growth 19 .9% growth 
20.8%
Revenue 27 .0% growth 34.0% growth 36.5% growth 27 .3% growth 
10% of bonus 
payable
40% of bonus 
payable
80% of bonus 
payable
Working 
capital
10% Based on the working capital ratio at the year end
1
Nil target achieved 0%
Personal 
objectives
10% Chief Executive: Measures relating to the integration of acquisitions, succession 
planning to deliver and implement the strategy, and driving the effectiveness  
of the Board and the Executive team
2
10.0%
Group Finance Director: Transitional development on new role
2
8.5%
Total Chief Executive 30.8% 
Total Group Finance Director 29 .3% 
1
 The targets relating to the working capital measure are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Board
2
 Following the year end, the Remuneration Committee assessed performance against the personal objectives for each Director
For Colin Day, the Remuneration Committee determined that the objectives have been fully satisfied and that the maximum portion 
of the bonus subject to these objectives should be paid. For Stefan Schellinger, the Remuneration Committee determined that the 
majority of the personal objectives have been fully satisfied and that 85% of the bonus subject to these objectives should be paid. 
The targets relating to the personal objectives are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Board. The Remuneration Committee 
has reviewed the personal objectives and can confirm that they appropriately reflect the strategic direction of the Company. 
Total bonuses awarded in respect of performance for the period that individuals were employed as Executive Directors during the year 
ended 31 December 2015 were therefore:
Name of Directors
Cash bonus
£000
Deferred share bonus award
£000
Total bonus
£000
Colin Day 156 156 312
Stefan Schellinger 16 15 31
Matthew Gregory Nil Nil Nil
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of bonus payable is reflective of the corporate and individual performance 
during the year. 
69
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Equity incentives (audited)
Details of the awards granted and outstanding during the year to the Executive Directors under the LTIP Part B, LTIP 2015 and DASB 
are as follows:
Date of grant
At 1  
Jan 2015
1
Awarded  
in year
Transferred  
in year
Lapsed at date 
of leaving the 
Company
At 31  
Dec 2015
Share price  
at date  
of grant
Earliest  
vesting  
date
Expiry  
date
Colin Day
LTIP Part B 20 April 2011 259,842 – 259,842 – – 317.50p 20 April  
2014
1
19 April  
2017
LTIP Part B 26 August 2011 80,929 – 80,929 – – 339.80p 26 February 
2015
1
25 August  
2017
LTIP Part B 27 April 2012 359,840 – 359,840 – – 400.70p 27 April  
2015
26 April  
2018
LTIP Part B 21 March 2013 260,115 – – – 260,115 692.00p 21 March  
2016
20 March  
2019
LTIP Part B 24 February 2014 211,643 – – – 211,643 876.00p 24 February 
2017
23 February 
2020
LTIP 2015 30 April 2015 – 203,109 – – 203,109 950.50p 30 April  
2018
29 April  
2021
DASB 24 February 2012 57,688 – 57,688 – – 446.90p 1 March  
2015
1 March  
2015
DASB 21 March 2013 61,100 – – – 61,100 692.00p 1 March  
2016
1 March  
2016
DASB 24 February 2014 51,369 – – – 51,369 876.00p 1 March  
2017
1 March  
2017
DASB 1 April 2015 – 26,926 – – 26,926 993.50p 1 March  
2018
1 March  
2018
Stefan Schellinger
2
LTIP Part B 29 April 2013 39,505 – – – 39,505 706.00p 29 April  
2016
28 April  
2019
LTIP Part B 24 February 2014 45,662 – – – 45,662 876.00p 24 February 
2017
23 February 
2020
LTIP 2015 30 April 2015 – 36,158 – – 36,158 950.50p 30 April  
2018
29 April  
2021
DASB 24 February 2014 5,279 – – – 5,279 876.00p 1 March  
2017
1 March  
2017
DASB 1 April 2015 – 3,872 – – 3,872 993.50p 1 March  
2018
1 March  
2018
Matthew Gregory
3
LTIP Part B 27 April 2012 67,021 – 67,021 – – 400.70p 27 April  
2015
26 April  
2018
LTIP Part B 21 March 2013 80,924 – – 80,924 – 692.00p 21 March  
2016
20 March  
2019
LTIP Part B 24 February 2014 68,493 – – 68,493 – 876.00p 24 February 
2017
23 February 
2020
LTIP 2015 30 April 2015 – 74,222 – 74,222 – 950.50p 30 April  
2018
29 April  
2021
DASB 24 February 2012 13,425 – 13,425 – – 446.90p 1 March  
2015
1 March  
2015
70
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Date of grant
At 1  
Jan 2015
1
Awarded  
in year
Transferred  
in year
Lapsed at date 
of leaving the 
Company
At 31  
Dec 2015
Share price  
at date  
of grant
Earliest  
vesting  
date
Expiry  
date
DASB 21 March 2013 13,450 – – 13,450 – 692.00p 1 March  
2016
1 March  
2016
DASB 24 February 2014 19,977 – – 19,977 – 876.00p 1 March  
2017
1 March  
2017
DASB 1 April 2015 – 10,892 – 10,892 – 993.50p 1 March  
2018
1 March  
2018
1
 Or date of appointment
2
 Stefan Schellinger’s outstanding LTIP B, LTIP 2015 and DASB awards were all granted when he was a member of the Group Management Committee 
and before he was appointed as an Executive Director
³ All of Matthew Gregory’s incentive plan awards and deferred share awards lapsed as at the date of leaving
A total of 915,597 (2014: 1,023,158) share incentive awards under the LTIP 2015 and the DASB were granted during the year ended  
31 December 2015 to Executive Directors and other senior executives, including members of the Group Leadership Team.
LTIP awards included in the Total Single Remuneration Table (audited)
All LTIP B and LTIP 2015 awards are subject half to a relative TSR performance condition and half to an adjusted EPS performance condition.
The TSR performance conditions are measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index at the beginning of the 
performance period, over a three-year performance period from the date of grant. 25% of the TSR element of the awards vests  
if Essentra is median ranked, increasing to 100% vesting if Essentra is upper quartile ranked.
The adjusted EPS performance targets for March and April 2013 awards are 8.0% pa to 15.0% pa; for February 2014 awards, the 
targets are 8.5% pa to 15.5% pa; and for April 2015 awards, the targets are 8.0% to 15.0% pa. 25% of the EPS element of the awards 
vests for achieving the lower target, increasing to 100% vesting for achieving the higher target.
The performance outturn for the LTIP awards included in the 2015 Total Single Remuneration Table is summarised below.
The LTIP B awards granted to Colin Day in March 2013 will vest in March 2016. The EPS performance period for these awards  
is complete. The TSR performance period will end in March 2016 so the figures below are estimates as at 31 December 2015. 
Performance 
condition Condition definition Threshold Maximum Actual outturn Vesting
Relative TSR 
(50% of the 
total award)
TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts)  
index over the three years  
from date of grant
If median rank  
is achieved, 25%  
of the TSR element vests
If upper quartile 
rank is achieved 100% 
of the TSR element vests
50.86%
Rank 90 out of 186 
companies
28.58% of the  
TSR element of the  
award is on track to vest
EPS 
(50% of the 
total award)
Annualised adjusted EPS growth 8% pa for 
25% of the EPS  
element to vest
15% pa for 
100% of the  
EPS element to vest
17.87% 100% of the  
EPS element of the  
award vests
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of vesting is a fair reflection of the performance of the business over the 
three-year performance period.
71
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The LTIP B awards granted to Stefan Schellinger in April 2013 will vest in April 2016. The EPS performance period for these awards  
is complete. The TSR performance period will end in April 2016 so the figures below are estimates as at 31 December 2015.
Performance 
condition Condition definition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting
Relative TSR 
(50% of the 
total award)
TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts) 
index over the three years 
from date of grant
If median rank  
is achieved, 
 25% of the  
TSR element vests
If upper quartile 
rank is achieved, 100% 
of the TSR element vests
35.21%
Rank 98 out of 187 
companies
0% of the  
TSR element of the  
award is on track to vest
EPS 
(50% of the 
total award)
Annualised adjusted EPS growth 8% pa for 
25% of the  
EPS element to vest
15% pa for 
100% of the  
EPS element to vest
17.87% 100% of the  
EPS element of  
the award vests
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the level of vesting is a fair reflection of the performance of the business over the three-year 
performance period.
The estimated value of LTIP B awards which will vest to the Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2016 is summarised in the 
table below:
Executive Number of awards granted Estimated vesting Number of shares Total
Colin Day 
(March 2013 award)
260,115 64.29% 167,227 1,400
Stefan Schellinger¹
(April 2013 award)
39,505 50.00% 19,752 165
1
  Award made while Stefan Schellinger was a member of the Group Management Committee
2
 The indicative value shown has been included in the total single figure for remuneration table based on the three-month average share price to  
31 December 2015 of £8.37
Long-term incentive awards granted during the year (audited)
The following LTIP 2015 awards were granted to Executive Directors on 30 April 2015.
Executive
Type of
award
Number of  
awards granted
Share price  
on grant Face value
1
Percentage which  
vests at threshold
Colin Day Performance share 203,109 £9.97 £2,024,996² 25%
Stefan Schellinger Performance share 36,158 £9.97 £360,495³ 25%
Matthew Gregory Performance share 74,222 £9.97 £739,993⁴ n/a
1
 Face value is based on the mid-market closing share price on 23 April 2015
2
 At the time of grant, these shares were worth 300% of Colin Day’s 2015-17 annual salary (£675,000)
3
 This award was granted when Stefan Schellinger was a member of the Group Management Committee and made in accordance with the Company’s 
remuneration policy
4
 At the time of grant, these shares were worth 200% of Matthew Gregory’s proposed average annual salary for the period 2015-17 (£370,000). 
Matthew Gregory’s award lapsed upon cessation of employment
72
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Save As You Earn scheme (audited)
The Company also operates a Save As You Earn share option scheme (“SAYE”). Details of the awards granted and outstanding under 
the SAYE are as follows:
Date of 
grant
At 1 Jan  
2015
Granted in 
year
Exercised in 
year
Lapsed on 
leaving 
employment
At 31 Dec 
2015
Exercise 
price
Share price 
at date of 
exercise
Earliest  
vesting date Expiry date
Colin Day
SAYE 1 May 2012 2,540 – 2,540 – – 354.2p 962.5p 1 May 2015 31 October 
2015
SAYE 1 May 2015 – 4,500 – – 4,500 770.4p – 1 May 2018 31 October 
2018
Stefan Schellinger
SAYE 1 May 2014 5,250 – – – 5,250 701.0p – 1 May 2017 31 October 
2017
SAYE 1 May 2015 – 2,250 – – 2,250 770.4p – 1 May 2018 31 October 
2018
Matthew Gregory
SAYE 1 May 2013 3,030 – – 3,030 – 495.0p – 1 May 2018 31 October 
2018
1
 These SAYE options were granted when Stefan Schellinger was a member of the Group Management Committee
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 December 2015 was £8.28. The middle market price of an ordinary 
share in the Company during the year ranged from £7 .14 to £10.69.
73
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
The beneficial interests of the current Directors in office at 31 December 2015, and the date of this Report, in the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company were as follows: 
Beneficially owned
% of salary  
held under 
shareholding 
guideline
LTIP B / LTIP 2015 
awards DASB SAYE Total
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 Unvested Unvested Unvested 31 Dec 2015
Executive Directors
Colin Day 265,851 545,948 670 674,867 139,395 4,500 1,364,710
Stefan Schellinger – – – 121,325 9,151 7,500 137,976
Non–Executive Directors
Jeff Harris 59,651 59,651 59,561
Paul Lester – – –
Tommy Breen – – –
Peter Hill 10,000 10,000 10,000
Lorraine Trainer 7,562 7 ,714 7 ,714
Terry Twigger 7,500 7,500 7,500
Salary used is the prevailing annual salary as at 31 December 2015. 
An additional 17 ,078 shares are also held by Colin Day’s family members.
Colin Day has met the requirement of the Essentra shareholding policy by holding shares worth 300% of salary.
Stefan Schellinger is required to build up a shareholding worth 200% of salary from the date of appointment.
The Executive Directors are regarded as being interested in 1,828,789 (2014: 3,379,383) ordinary shares in Essentra plc currently held 
by the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as they are, together with other Essentra employees, potential beneficiaries of the EBT. 
These shares are held in order to satisfy employee entitlements relating to the Company’s share plans. 
As at 31 December 2015, potential and actual share issuance through employee related share plans totalled 1.9%, which is well below 
UK institutional shareholder limits of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital.
Performance graph (unaudited)
The graph right represents the comparative TSR performance of the Company versus the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index 
for the last seven years. This index has been selected as it is considered the most appropriate published general index in which the 
Company is a constituent.
74
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Seven-year Chief Executive table (unaudited)
Mark Harper Colin Day
2009 2010 1 Jan –
14 April 2011
April –
31 Dec 2011
2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£000) 1,038 2,932 1,715 1,046 1,570 3,824 5,661 2,602
Annual bonus (%) 20% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 60.0% 46.2%
LTIP vesting (%) 73% 100% 100% n/a n/a 100% 100% 64.3%
Mark Harper retired on 14 April 2011 and Colin Day was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2011.
The annual bonus and LTIP figures show the payout as a percentage of the maximum. Annual bonuses for 2011 were pro rated for 
both executives to reflect time served. Mark Harper’s LTIP B award vested on the normal date, pro-rated for time and performance.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer (unaudited)
2015
£000
2014 
£000 % change
% change  
UK GMC
Salary 675 618 9.2 4.0
Benefits 31 27 14.8 -10.3
Bonus 27 557 -44.0 -28.7
The table above shows the percentage movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive and members  
of the UK GMC between the current and previous financial year.
Essentra FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index
£0
£100
£200
£300
£400
£500
£600
£700
£800
£900
£1000
Dec-08
Dec-09
Dec-10
Dec-11
Dec-12
Dec-13
Dec-14
Dec-15
75
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION UK senior executives have been chosen as the most appropriate comparator group, as they represent those employees eligible to 
participate in the same reward plans as the Chief Executive. Group-wide figures can be distorted by different reward practices in 
different geographies and movements in the number of employees.
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited)
2014 
£m
2015 
£m % change
Staff costs¹ 194.5 260.2 33.8
Distributions to shareholders
38.1 49.0 28.6
Revenue
865.7 1,098.1 26.8
Adjusted operating profit 142.5 171.5 20.4
1
 Staff costs are as per note 5 on page 103
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2016 (unaudited)
Salary
Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the roles, responsibilities, 
performance and experience of the individual. 
Colin Day’s salary is fixed until 1 January 2018 and Stefan Schellinger’s salary will not be reviewed until 1 January 2017 . 
Colin Day Stefan Schellinger
Annual salary effective from 1 January 2016 £675,000 £360,000
Annual salary effective from 1 January 2015 £675,000 £360,000
1
1 
Effective from 8 October 2015. On his appointment Stefan Schellinger’s remuneration was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee, taking into 
account all relevant factors including his experience, the pay level of his predecessor and the principles of our Policy 
Benefits
Executive Directors are provided with the following benefits:
 > Car, fuel and / or car allowance
 > Private medical insurance with family level cover
 > Life insurance cover of four times basic salary
Pension
Colin Day will receive a supplementary payment equal to 25% of annual salary to permit him to secure pension benefits. 
Stefan Schellinger will receive a supplementary payment of 20% of his basic salary to permit him to secure pension benefits.
76
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual bonuses
Each year, the Remuneration Committee reviews the annual bonus, to ensure the performance measures and targets remain 
appropriate and aligned with the Company’s short-term strategy, while remaining within the appropriate risk profile.
Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2016, Colin Day is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 150%  
of basic salary and Stefan Schellinger is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 125% of basic salary. Bonus payments are 
normally made one half in cash and one half in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being deferred for three years, 
in accordance with the rules of the DASB. 
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the performance criteria will be as follows:
Performance criteria Weighting (%)
Balanced growth (revenue and operating profit) 80
Working capital
10
Personal objectives
10
The Remuneration Committee believes that revenue, profit and working capital targets are commercially sensitive, although targets will 
be set so as to provide alignment with the goals of Drive for 2020. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee will not disclose the targets  
on a prospective basis. The targets and actual performance against them will be disclosed on a retrospective basis where possible. 
In addition to the financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has also set the personal performance measures for Colin Day 
and Stefan Schellinger, which are designed to deliver further progress by the Company towards the objectives associated with its Drive 
for 2020 strategy.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion, within a three-year period after the determination of the bonus, to withhold or 
recover annual cash bonuses or DASB awards through malus and clawback provisions in specified circumstances. These circumstances 
take into account where the original bonus was paid to a greater extent than it should have done, due to a material misstatement in 
the Company’s Financial Statements or due to an error in assessing the applicable performance conditions or if there has been serious 
misconduct by an individual or if there has been serious reputational damage to the Company or a relevant business unit.
Essentra Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 (“LTIP 2015”)
An award granted under LTIP 2015 consists of a conditional right to receive shares in the Company, subject to satisfaction of 
performance conditions. As outlined in the Remuneration Policy Report, the Remuneration Committee has fixed the size of grants to 
the current Chief Executive and Group Finance Director for the three-year period of the Policy. Therefore, the Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director will receive awards in 2016 over the same number of LTIP shares as were awarded to the holders of these positions in 
April 2015 as set out below:
Colin Day Stefan Schellinger
Number of shares to be granted in 2016 203,109
1
74,222
2
1 
At the time of the April 2015 grant, these shares were worth 300% of Colin Day’s 2015-17 annual salary (£675,000)
2
 At the time of the April 2015 grant, these shares were worth 200% of the former Group Finance Director’s average 2015-17 annual salary (£370,000)
A share award under LTIP 2015 will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its award, and may only be exercised to 
the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied. The awards are structured as nil cost options. 
For awards to be granted to the Executive Directors in 2016, one half of the awards will be subject to a TSR performance condition and 
one half of the awards will be subject to an adjusted EPS performance condition. The Remuneration Committee believes that these 
conditions provide appropriate alignment with the strategic priorities outlined in Drive for 2020. The TSR performance condition 
assesses Essentra’s TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) index. Performance is 
measured over three years from the time of grant. 25% of the TSR element vests for median performance, increasing on a straight 
line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance or above.
77
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The adjusted EPS performance condition for these awards requires the Company’s EPS growth (adjusted to exclude items which did 
not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance and intangible amortisation) over three financial years to be in excess 
of 8% per annum for 25% of the EPS element to vest. The proportion of the awards vesting will increase on a straight line basis, and 
for 100% of the EPS element to vest the adjusted EPS growth must be in excess of 15% per annum. The 15% per annum upper target 
is consistent with the aspiration of Drive for 2020, namely to double the size of the Company by 2020.
Awards granted under the LTIP 2015 are subject to malus and clawback provisions for a period of up to three years following the 
vesting date of the award. Potential circumstances in which the malus and clawback provisions may be applied are consistent with 
those applying to annual bonus awards as described above. 
Non-Executive Director fees
The fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee, while fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole.
Chairman Chairman Designate
Non-Executive 
Director
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Additional fee for 
chairing a Committee
Annual fee effective from 
1 April 2016
250,000 – 52,000 7 ,000 11,000
Annual fee effective from 
1 January 2015
200,000 125,000¹ 52,000 7 ,000 11,000
1 
Or date of appointment
 
Statement of shareholder voting (unaudited)
The results of shareholder voting in relation to the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM were as follows:
Annual Report on Remuneration Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
No. of votes % No. of votes %
Votes cast in favour 224,009,975 99.16 221,255,379 97.15
Votes cast against 1,893,395 0.84 6,464,266 2.85
Total votes cast 225,903,370 227,719,595
Abstentions 1,860,580 45,194
This Report of the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board
LORRAINE TRAINER
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
78
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Directors present their Report 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, which requires 
the Company to provide a fair review 
of the business of the Group during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2015, 
and audited Financial Statements  
of the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings for the year ended 
31 December 2015.
The Company’s Registered Office is 
Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury 
Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 1AU.
The Directors’ Report comprises pages 42 
to 83 and the sections of the Annual Report 
incorporated by reference are as set  
out below:
Membership of Board during 
2015 financial year
page 48
Financial instruments and 
financial risk management
page 91
Greenhouse gas emissions page 41
Corporate Governance report
pages  
48 to 54
Future developments of the 
business of the Group
page 9
Employee equality  
and diversity
page 39
In accordance with the UK Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 
9.8.4C), the information to be included in 
the Annual Report and Accounts, where 
applicable, under LR 9.8.4 is set out in 
the Directors’ Report.
Results and dividends
The profit on ordinary activities after 
taxation of the Group for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 was £68.7m 
(2014: £71.8m).
As at 19 February 2016, the Company has 
paid the following dividend in respect of 
the year ended 31 December 2015:
Per share  
p
Total  
£m
Interim dividend  
paid 30 October 2015
6.3 32.6
The Directors recommend that a final 
dividend of 14.4p (2014: 12.6p) per share be 
paid, making a total dividend distribution 
for the year of 20.7p (2014: 18.3p).
The final dividend, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM, will be paid on 
3 May 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 18 March 2016.
Directors 
As at 31 December 2015, the Board  
of Directors comprised:
Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman
Paul Lester Non-Executive 
Chairman Designate
Colin Day Chief Executive
Terry Twigger SI Non-Executive Director
Stefan Schellinger Group Finance Director
Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director
Peter Hill Non-Executive Director
Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive Director
The Company is adopting the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
September 2014 in relation to Directors’ 
appointments, and in particular the annual 
re-election of all Directors. 
Paul Lester, Tommy Breen and Stefan 
Schellinger will be putting themselves 
forward for election at the 2016 AGM,  
having been appointed as Directors since  
the 2015 AGM.
Jeff Harris will not be standing for  
re-election after more than ten years 
serving on the Board.
Except for the above, in accordance 
with provision B.7 .1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, all the Directors 
previously elected at an AGM, and 
being eligible, will offer themselves up 
for re-election.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have 
service contracts.
In accordance with the Company’s Conflict 
of Interests policy, Directors are required to 
review their potential conflict of interests 
at least on an annual basis and to notify 
any changes to the Company Secretary  
& General Counsel as soon as possible.  
The current register was approved by 
the Board in October 2015, and no material 
conflicts of interest were identified during 
the year. 
79
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION At no time during the year has any Director 
had any material interest in a contract with 
the Group, being a contract of significance 
in relation to the Group’s business. A 
statement of Directors’ interests in shares  
of the Company is on page 74.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company is 
shown in note 19 to the Financial Statements 
on pages 123 to 124.
On 31 December 2015, there were 264,129 ,170 
ordinary shares of 25p each in issue. There 
were 1,750,571 ordinary shares of 25p each 
held in treasury.
The rights and obligations attaching to 
the Company’s ordinary shares, and the 
provisions governing the appointment and 
replacement of, as well as the powers of, 
the Company’s Directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies 
of which can be obtained from Companies 
House in the UK or by writing to the 
Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting  
rights attaching to the Company’s 
ordinary shares or on the transfer of 
securities in the Company, except, in the 
case of transfers of securities:
 > That certain restrictions may from 
time to time be imposed by laws 
and regulations (for example, insider 
trading laws)
 > Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Conduct Authority, 
certain employees of the Company 
require approval of the Company to 
deal in the Company’s ordinary shares
No persons hold securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. The Company 
is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in 
the Articles of Association of the Company, 
the Company’s Articles of Association may 
be amended by special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Substantial shareholders
At the close of business on 19 February 2016, 
the Company was advised of the following 
voting rights attaching to the Company’s 
shares in accordance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules:
% of total voting 
rights
Standard Life 
Investments (Holdings) 
Limited
9.99
FMR LLC 9.15
BlackRock Inc 6.01
Royal London Asset 
Management Limited
3.03
Employees
As at 31 December 2015, the Company 
employed 8,866 people globally and 
1,749 people in the UK. Information on 
the Group’s policies on employee 
recruitment, engagement and the 
employment of disabled persons can 
be found in the Corporate Responsibility 
Statement on page 39.
Political contributions
In line with Group policy, the Company 
made no political contributions (2014: £nil).
Environmental
The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas 
emissions required by law are included in 
the Strategic Report on page 41.
Directors’ indemnities
During the year, and as at the date 
of this Report, indemnities are in force 
under which the Company has agreed to 
indemnify the Directors and the Company 
Secretary & General Counsel, in addition 
to other senior executives who are 
Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, 
to the extent permitted by law and the 
Company’s Articles of Association, in 
respect of all losses arising out of or in 
connection with the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities as a 
Director or Officer of the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries, including the pension 
scheme trustee companies. The scope of 
the indemnities extends to include 
liabilities to third parties.
Significant agreements
The Company has committed bank 
facilities consisting of two five-year 
multi-currency revolving credit facilities of 
£271.0m and €167 .5m. Under the terms of 
these facilities, the banks can give notice 
to Essentra to repay outstanding amounts 
and cancel the commitments where there 
is a change of control of the Company.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 
29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior 
notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior 
notes due 29 April 2020, on a change of 
control the Company must make an offer 
to prepay all the notes at par, without any 
premium of any kind, together with 
accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
All of the Company’s share schemes 
contain provisions relating to a change in 
control. Outstanding options and awards 
normally vest and become exercisable on 
a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance 
conditions at that time.
There are a number of other agreements, 
involving the Company or its subsidiaries, 
that take effect, alter or terminate upon 
a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid, such as 
commercial contracts and joint venture 
agreements. None are considered to 
be significant in terms of their potential 
impact on the business of the Group as 
a whole, to any potential bidder for the 
Company or Group.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at the 
Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, 
Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK9 2HQ 
on Wednesday 20 April 2016 at 12 noon.
80
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In addition to the ordinary business of the 
AGM, resolutions in respect of the following 
matters of special business are included in 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting: 
Authority to allot unissued shares
At the 2015 AGM, the Directors were 
granted authority to allot relevant 
securities up to a nominal amount  
of £21,773,455, which expires at the  
end of the forthcoming AGM. 
At this year’s AGM, shareholders will be 
asked to grant the Directors’ authority 
to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe 
for or convert any security into shares: 
(i) up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £21,865,426 representing approximately 
one-third of the Company’s issued share 
capital, excluding treasury shares, at 
19 February 2016 (such an amount to be 
reduced by the nominal amount allotted 
or granted under section (ii) below in 
excess of such sum); and (iii) comprising 
equity securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £43,730,853 
representing approximately two-thirds 
of the issued share capital, excluding 
treasury shares, at 19 February 2016 
(such an amount to be reduced by any 
allotments or grants made under section 
(i) above) in connection with an offer by 
way of a rights issue. 
The proposal conforms to the guidelines 
issued by the institutional investment 
protection bodies to ensure that existing 
shareholders’ interests are safeguarded. 
The Directors have no present intention  
of exercising either of these authorities, 
which will expire at the end of next year’s 
AGM (or, if earlier, the close of business  
on 20 June 2017) except in relation to  
share options.
Allotment of shares for cash
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved 
a special resolution to enable the Directors 
to allot shares for cash without first 
offering them to existing shareholders in 
proportion to their existing shareholdings. 
That approval expires at the end of the 
forthcoming AGM and resolution 14 in 
the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
This year the Company seeks a  
resolution which authorises disapplication 
of pre-emption rights in respect of up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£6,559 ,464 (representing 26,237 ,859 
ordinary shares). This aggregate nominal 
amount represents approximately 10%  
of the issued ordinary share capital of  
the Company (excluding treasury shares). 
This disapplication authority is in line  
with institutional shareholder guidance  
in the form of the Pre-Emption Group’s 
Statement of Principles, which were  
revised in 2015 to permit the disapplication 
of pre-emption rights for an issue of shares 
otherwise than in connection with a 
pre-emptive offer to be increased from  
5% to 10% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary share capital provided the 
Directors confirm their intention to use  
the additional 5% authority only in  
relation to an acquisition or specified 
capital investment. 
The Directors confirm their intention  
to only allot, if applicable, shares 
representing more than 5% of the  
issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company (excluding treasury shares),  
for cash without first offering them to 
existing shareholders in proportion to  
their existing shareholdings, where  
that allotment is in connection with  
an acquisition or specified capital 
investment (within the meaning given  
in the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement  
of Principles) which is announced 
contemporaneously with the  
allotment, or which has taken place  
in the preceding six-month period  
and is disclosed in the announcement  
of the allotment. 
This authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 
20 June 2017 . The proposal conforms to 
the guidelines issued by the institutional 
investment protection bodies to ensure 
that existing shareholders’ interests are 
safeguarded. 
Purchase of own shares
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved 
a special resolution to enable the 
Company to purchase its own shares. 
That approval expires at the end of the 
forthcoming AGM. 
At this year’s AGM, the Directors consider 
it expedient to seek shareholders’ approval 
to enable the Company to purchase, 
in the market, up to 10% of its issued share 
capital (excluding any treasury shares) 
for cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, 
such power to apply until the end of next 
year’s AGM (or if earlier, 20 June 2017). 
In accordance with the requirements of 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, the minimum price (exclusive 
of expenses) which may be paid for  
a share is its nominal value and the 
maximum price (exclusive of expenses) 
for shares which may be paid is the 
highest of: (i) an amount equal to 105% 
of the average market value for a share 
for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date of the purchase; 
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last 
independent trade and the highest current 
independent bid on the trading venues 
where the purchase is carried out. 
The Directors have no present intention of 
exercising the authority to make market 
purchases, however the authority provides 
the flexibility to allow them to do so in the 
future. The Directors will only utilise this 
authority if satisfied that to do so would 
be in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders generally, and could 
be expected to result in an increase in 
earnings per share of the Company. 
During the financial year ending 
31 December 2015 1,699,114 ordinary 
shares were transferred out of Treasury 
by the Company to satisfy share options 
under the Company’s Sharesave and 
executive share incentive plans.
No dividends have been paid on shares 
while held in Treasury and no voting rights 
attach to the treasury shares.
81
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Auditor
The Auditor, KPMG LLP , is willing to 
continue in office. Separate resolutions 
 will be put to the AGM to re-appoint the 
Auditor, and to authorise the Board to 
agree their remuneration.
Recommendation
The Directors believe that the resolutions 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
are in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders as a whole, and 
unanimously recommend that shareholders 
vote in favour of each resolution.
Derivatives
Information related to derivatives is 
included in the Accounting Policies on 
page 91 and in note 14.
Going concern statement
The Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future and accordingly have adopted the 
going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated Financial Statements. 
Further information regarding the financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial Review on 
pages 13 to 14. In addition, note 1 to the 
Financial Statements on pages 97 to 99 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital,  
its financial risk management objectives, 
details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities, and exposures to credit, 
market and liquidity risk. Cash balances 
and borrowings are included in note 21 
on page 124. This disclosure has been 
prepared in accordance the with Financial 
Reporting Council’s “Guidance on Risk 
Management and Internal Control and 
Related Financial and Business Reporting 
(September 2014)” .
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, 
the Directors have assessed the viability 
of the Group over a period longer than 
the twelve months required by the 
“Going Concern” statement. In making 
this assessment, the Directors have taken 
into account the Group’s current position 
and the potential impact of the principal 
risks documented on pages 31 to 35. Based 
on this assessment, the Directors confirm 
that they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities over 
the three-year period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors have determined that a 
three-year period to 31 December 2018 
is an appropriate period over which to 
provide its viability statement. This is the 
period reviewed by the Group Board in its 
strategic planning process. The Directors 
believe that this presents a reasonable 
degree of confidence over this longer-
term outlook.
In making this statement, the Board’s 
assessment has been made with 
reference to the resilience of the Group 
and its strong financial position, the 
Group’s current strategy, the Board’s risk 
appetite and the Group’s principal risks, 
including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity, and how these are 
managed, as described in the Strategic 
Report on pages 30 to 35. 
The Board considers annually and on 
a rolling basis a three-year, bottom-up 
strategic plan. The output of this plan 
is used to perform central debt and 
headroom profile analysis, which includes 
a review of sensitivity to “business as 
usual” risks, such as profit growth and 
working capital variances and severe 
but plausible events. It also considers 
the ability of the Group to raise finance 
and deploy capital. The results take into 
account the availability and likely 
effectiveness of the mitigating actions 
that could be taken to avoid or reduce 
the impact or occurrence of the identified 
underlying risks.
The geographical and sector 
diversification of the Group’s operations 
and markets reduces the risk of serious 
business interruption or catastrophic 
damage to its reputation. Furthermore, 
the business model is structured so that 
the Group is not reliant on one particular 
group of clients or sector, and has the 
ability to flex the cost base which protects 
the Company’s viability in the face of 
adverse economic conditions and / or 
political uncertainty.
While this review does not consider all 
of the risks that the Group may face, 
the Directors consider that this sensitivity 
testing-based assessment of the Group’s 
prospects is reasonable in the circumstances 
of the inherent uncertainty involved.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to the external auditor
As required by section 418(2) of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Directors who 
were members of the Board at the time 
of approving this Report, having made 
enquiries of fellow Directors and of the 
external auditor, confirm that:
 > As far as each Director is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s external 
auditor is unaware
 > Each Director has taken all steps 
that he ought to have taken as a 
Director to ascertain any relevant 
audit information, and to ensure 
that the Company’s external auditor 
is aware of that information
The Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, 
including the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee, were approved by the Board 
on 19 February 2016. 
By order of the Board
JON GREEN
Company Secretary 
19 February 2016
82
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In respect of the Annual Report and 
the Financial Statements, the Directors 
are responsible for preparing the 
Directors’ Report, the Remuneration 
Report, the Strategic Report and the 
Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors  
to prepare financial statements for  
each financial year. Under that law,  
they have elected to prepare the  
Financial Statements in accordance  
with International Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU, and the 
Company Financial Statements and the 
Remuneration Report in accordance with 
applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
generally accepted accounting practice, 
UK GAAP). In preparing the Financial 
Statements, the Directors have also  
elected to comply with IFRS, issued by  
the International Accounting Standards 
Board (“IASB”). Under Company law, the 
Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, 
the Directors are required to: 
 > Select suitable accounting policies  
and then apply them consistently
 > Make judgements and estimates  
that are reasonable and prudent
 > State whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted 
by the EU and, with regard to the 
Company Financial Statements, that 
applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed
 > Prepare financial statements on  
a going concern basis, unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for  
keeping adequate accounting records  
that are sufficient to show and explain  
the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company, and 
enable them to ensure that the Financial 
Statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
Engaging professional accountants to 
compile the Financial Statements cannot 
be regarded as providing assurance on 
the adequacy of the Company’s systems or 
on the incidence of fraud, non-compliance 
with laws and regulations or weaknesses 
in internal controls, and does not relieve 
the Directors of their responsibilities in 
this respect.
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on pages 44 to 45 
confirms that:
 > To the best of their knowledge, the 
Financial Statements and the Company 
Financial Statements, which have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as issued by the IASB and IFRS as 
adopted by the EU and UK GAAP 
respectively, give a true and fair view 
of the assets and liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Company
 > To the best of their knowledge, the 
Strategic Report contained in the 
Annual Report and Accounts includes 
a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and 
the position of the Company on a 
consolidated and individual basis, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties  
that it faces; and
 > They consider that the Annual Report 
and Accounts taken as a whole are  
fair, balanced and understandable, and 
provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business 
model and strategy
COLIN DAY
Chief Executive 
STEFAN SCHELLINGER
Group Finance Director
19 February 2016
83
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue 1 1,098.1 865.7
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 171.5 142.5
Intangible amortisation 2 (31.7) (17.5)
Exceptional operating items 2 (39.1) (16.2)
Operating profit 1 100.7 108.8
Finance income 3 1.5 1.4
Finance expense 3 (11.8) (10.5)
Profit before tax 90.4 99.7
Income tax expense 4 (21.7) (27.9)
Profit for the year 68.7 71.8
Attributable to:
Equity holders of Essentra plc 67.9 71.0
Non-controlling interests 0.8 0.8
Profit for the year 68.7 71.8
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc:
Basic 6 26.2p 30.0p
Diluted 6 25.8p 29.4p
84
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit for the year 68.7 71.8
Other comprehensive income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 17 1.9 (15.8)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 4,15 (0.2) 5.0
1.7 (10.8)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges:
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement (0.5) 0.1
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the carrying amount of non-financial assets (6.2) –
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 3.3 3.4
Foreign exchange translation differences:
Attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc:
Arising on translation of foreign operations (6.8) 3.4
Arising on effective net investment hedges (6.0) (2.3)
Income tax (charge)/credit on effective net investment hedges 4 (0.1) 0.5
Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 0.3
(16.2) 5.4
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (14.5) (5.4)
Total comprehensive income 54.2 66.4
Attributable to:
Equity holders of Essentra plc 53.3 65.3
Non-controlling interests 0.9 1.1
Total comprehensive income 54.2 66.4
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME At 31 December 2015 
Note
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 288.8 230.5
Intangible assets 8 691.6 406.4
Long-term receivables 0.8 3.1
Deferred tax assets 15 4.6 11.8
Retirement benefit assets 17 23.9 20.1
Total non-current assets 1,009.7 671.9
Inventories 9 118.7 84.8
Income tax receivable 4.7 8.9
Trade and other receivables 10,18 253.2 165.4
Derivative assets 14,18 0.4 3.9
Cash and cash equivalents 11,18 30.2 46.0
Total current assets 407.2 309.0
Total assets 1,416.9 980.9
Equity
Issued share capital 19 66.0 66.0
Merger relief reserve 19 298.1 298.1
Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1
Other reserve 20 (132.8) (132.8)
Cash flow hedging reserve – 3.4
Translation reserve (21.4) (8.5)
Retained earnings 20 399.5 366.5
Attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc 609.5 592.8
Non-controlling interests 5.7 5.0
Total equity 615.2 597.8
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 13,18 403.5 104.2
Retirement benefit obligations 17 24.7 21.8
Provisions 16 2.8 3.4
Other financial liabilities 18 – 3.5
Deferred tax liabilities 15 93.0 54.7
Total non-current liabilities 524.0 187.6
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 13,18 0.6 5.8
Derivative liabilities 14,18 0.4 0.1
Income tax payable 26.8 28.6
Trade and other payables 12,18 241.9 156.8
Provisions 16 8.0 4.2
Total current liabilities 277.7 195.5
Total liabilities 801.7 383.1
Total equity and liabilities 1,416.9 980.9
The consolidated Financial Statements on pages 84 to 127 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2016 and were 
signed on its behalf by:
Colin Day   Stefan Schellinger
Chief Executive   Group Finance Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET For the year ended 31 December 2015
2015
Issued 
capital
£m
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total equity
£m
At 1 January 2015 66.0 298.1 0.1 (132.8) 3.4 (8.5) 366.5 5.0 597.8
Profit for the year 67.9 0.8 68.7
Other comprehensive income (3.4) (12.9) 1.7 0.1 (14.5)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – (3.4) (12.9) 69.6 0.9 54.2
Purchase of employee trust shares (1.0) (1.0)
Share options exercised 5.4 5.4
Share option expense 5.7 5.7
Tax relating to share-based 
incentives 2.3 2.3
Dividends paid (49.0) (0.2) (49.2)
At 31 December 2015 66.0 298.1 0.1 (132.8) – (21.4) 399.5 5.7 615.2
2014
Issued 
capital
£m
Merger relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 60.1 136.4 0.1 (132.8) (0.1) (9.9) 345.0 4.2 403.0
Profit for the year 71.0 0.8 71.8
Other comprehensive income 3.5 1.6 (10.8) 0.3 (5.4)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – 3.5 1.6 60.2 1.1 66.4
Issue of shares 5.9 161.7 167.6
Changes in non-controlling 
interests in subsidiaries (0.1) (0.1)
Transfer to loss on disposal of 
subsidiary (0.2) (0.2)
Purchase of employee trust shares (12.3) (12.3)
Share options exercised 4.3 4.3
Share option expense 6.8 6.8
Tax relating to share-based 
incentives 0.6 0.6
Dividends paid (38.1) (0.2) (38.3)
At 31 December 2014 66.0 298.1 0.1 (132.8) 3.4 (8.5) 366.5 5.0 597.8
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating activities
Profit for the year 68.7 71.8
Adjustments for:
Income tax expense 21.7 27.9
Net finance expense 3 10.3 9.1
Intangible amortisation 2,8 31.7 17.5
Exceptional operating items 2 39.1 16.2
Depreciation 2,7 31.9 27.2
Share option expense 17 5.7 6.8
Other movements (0.5) (2.9)
Increase in inventories (14.6) (5.5)
Increase in trade and other receivables (51.2) (22.4)
Increase in trade and other payables 13.0 2.5
Cash outflow in respect of exceptional operating items (22.1) (6.9)
Adjustment for pension contributions (5.1) (2.5)
Movements in provisions (2.3) (8.1)
Cash inflow from operating activities 126.3 130.7
Income tax paid (15.7) (20.5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 110.6 110.2
Investing activities
Interest received 0.6 0.3
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (58.6) (38.1)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.8 5.0
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired 23 (304.5) (26.1)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (358.7) (58.9)
Financing activities
Interest paid (10.0) (8.8)
Dividends paid to equity holders (49.0) (38.1)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.2) (0.2)
Proceeds from equity issue 19 – 167.6
Repayments of short-term loans (4.9) (3.8)
Repayments of long-term loans – (158.1)
Proceeds from long-term loans 292.8 –
Purchase of employee trust shares (1.0) (12.3)
Proceeds from sale of employee trust shares 5.4 4.3
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities 233.1 (49.4)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents 21 (15.0) 1.9
Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 46.0 44.1
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (15.0) 1.9
Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents (0.8) –
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 11,18 30.2 46.0
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS A. Basis of preparation
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) in accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) (“adopted 
IFRS”) and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Company has elected to prepare its individual 
Company Financial Statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”); these 
are presented on pages 128 to 137 .
The Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and 
retirement benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The preparation of Financial Statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of income and 
expense during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event 
or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
For the purposes of these Financial Statements “Essentra” or “the Group” means Essentra plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these Financial Statements are detailed below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all periods presented.
Changes in accounting policies
In the current financial year, Essentra adopted amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions which clarify 
that an entity is permitted to recognise employee contributions as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the service is 
rendered, instead of allocating the contributions to the periods of service, if the amount of the contributions is independent of the 
number of years of service. The adoption of these amendments did not have an impact on the Group in relation to measurement, 
recognition and presentation. Other than this, the accounting policies and presentation in this set of Financial Statements are 
consistent with those applied in the prior years. 
The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group. The Group is currently assessing the impact of 
IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and IFRS 16, and does not currently expect the adoption of the other standards or interpretations to have a material 
impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group:
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts 
with customers, and provides a more structured approach to measurement and recognition of revenue.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting, 
and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
IFRS 16 Leases eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and introduces a single lessee 
accounting model under which a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than twelve 
months, unless the underlying asset is of low value, and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in 
the income statement.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative clarify that an entity should use professional judgement in determining what information 
should be disclosed in the Financial Statements, and the location and order of presentation in financial disclosures.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation clarifies that the ratio  
of revenue generated to total revenue expected to be generated cannot be used to depreciate property, plant and equipment  
and can only be used to amortise intangibles in very limited circumstances.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES
ACCOUNTING POLICIES A. Basis of preparation continued
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative require disclosure of information about changes in liabilities arising from financing 
activities, including cash flows and non-cash changes. As Essentra provides disclosure on reconciliation of individual elements  
of net debt, these amendments are not expected to have a significant impact.
All other new pronouncements did not have, or are not expected to have, a significant impact on the Group.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in 
the Financial Review on pages 13 to 14. In addition, note 18 to the Financial Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities 
and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk. Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21. The Directors have prepared 
plans and forecasts for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing these Financial Statements. Based on these, and 
taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 18, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated Financial Statements. This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
B. Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Essentra. Control exists when Essentra is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The Financial Statements 
of subsidiaries are included in the Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated Financial Statements.
C. Foreign currency
Items included in the Financial Statements of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the subsidiary operates (“functional currency”). The consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in sterling 
(functional currency of the parent company).
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and 
recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply (see policy for financial instruments).
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated 
into sterling at average exchange rates. 
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to other 
comprehensive income, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated  
as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective. Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement. 
Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES D. Financial instruments
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (“IAS 39”), interest bearing loans and borrowings 
and other financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting 
relationship. See note 14 for separate disclosure of hedge types. 
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value. Subsequent measurement in the Financial Statements depends on the classification 
of the derivative as follows: 
(i) Fair value hedges
Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative 
is recognised in the income statement. 
(ii) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value is recognised in other 
comprehensive income to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. Where 
the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the 
same period as the hedged item affects profit or loss. Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated  
gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset. 
(iii) Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in 
other comprehensive income. Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
E. Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Previously revalued 
properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as 
separate items. The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the following 
annual rates: 
Freehold land Not depreciated
Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter
Plant and machinery 7-20%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10-33%
The assets’ useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
F. Leases
Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis. Lease incentives are 
amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES G. Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses. 
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method. For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill 
represents the difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed 
cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP . 
Since 1 January 2010, the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement. Given their one-off nature, 
these costs are generally presented within exceptional operating items.
(ii) Research and development
Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred. 
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility  
of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell  
the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability  
to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
(iii) Other intangible assets
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected 
future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably. Intangible assets 
principally relate to customer relationships, which are valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates, 
and developed technology, which is valued using an income approach. The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income 
statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life. 
H. Impairment
All assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill and intangible assets  
are tested annually. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement. 
Value in use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital.
I. Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (on a first in, first out basis) and net realisable value. For work-in-progress and finished 
goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
J. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the 
date of acquisition. Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Essentra’s cash management and are included 
as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
K. Loans and borrowings
Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost (which is equal to fair value at inception) and are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the 
settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES L. Trade and other receivables
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
M. Trade and other payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
 
N. Catalogue costs
The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received 
to those goods.
O. Income tax
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements. The following temporary differences are not provided for: 
goodwill not deductible for tax purposes; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
profit or loss; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using 
the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet dates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against  
which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related  
tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
P . Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of expected warranty claims when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
A significant proportion of the Group’s businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, where the Group as a seller makes its goods ready 
for collection at its premises on an agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs all transportation and handling costs and bears 
the risks for bringing the goods to their chosen destination. The Group operates non ex-works terms with customers in some of its 
businesses, and in these businesses, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the customer. These terms include some consignment stock agreements, where revenue is recognised when the customer removes 
the goods from consignment stock.
Q. Finance income and expense
Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
 
R. Segment reporting
A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee 
(refer to Corporate Governance Report) in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES S. Pensions
(i)  Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit schemes
The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at 
the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Essentra’s obligations. 
The calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Net interest on defined 
benefit assets is presented within finance income, and net interest on defined benefit liabilities is presented within finance expense.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the Consolidated Statement Of Comprehensive Income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost (including curtailments) and gains and losses 
on settlement. 
The value of a net pension asset is limited to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed 
refunds from the scheme.
T. Share-based payments
Essentra operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans. A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of 
option awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price information with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and vesting date of the options. 
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of 
options that fail to vest because market conditions are not met.
U. One-off items in the Consolidated Income Statement
The exceptional operating items below are separated from other items by virtue of their size and incidence (considered for each 
operating segment). They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order 
for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and performance. These items exclude amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets which are also presented separately in the income statement.
(i) Acquisition fees
In 2015 and 2014, Essentra incurred one-off costs (such as professional fees) as a result of the acquisitions including transactions that 
did not complete (refer to note 23). 
(ii) Acquisition integration and restructuring costs
Costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with acquisitions.
(iii) Other exceptional items
In 2015, this represented the costs associated with the closure of the Filters site in Jarrow, offset by a release in respect of warranty 
obligations for the disposal of Globalpack, an entity disposed of in 2007 , and an adjustment on contingent deferred considerations 
on prior acquisitions. In 2014, this represented the loss on disposal of Filters Jordan and an adjustment on contingent deferred 
consideration in relation to the acquisition of Ulinco. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES V. Investment in own shares
The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are 
treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings. The cost of shares held directly (treasury shares) 
are also deducted from retained earnings. 
W. Provisions
A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the outflow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation. The outflow is the present value 
of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
X. Government grants
Government grants are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the grants will be received and that all related conditions 
will be met, usually on submission of a valid claim for payment. Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are included 
within the carrying amount of the related property, plant and equipment, and are released to profit or loss on a straight-line basis 
over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to profit or loss so as to match them 
with the expenditure to which they relate.
Y. Net debt
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
Z. Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company (final dividend) 
or paid (interim dividend). 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and 
estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The Directors 
believe that the Financial Statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Essentra’s 
performance and financial position. 
I. Pensions
Essentra accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19. The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise  
of judgement in relation to the assumptions used and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes (see note 17). 
In consultation with Essentra’s actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects 
Essentra’s circumstances. Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations. The Group performs 
a sensitivity analysis for the significant assumptions used in determining post-retirement costs and liabilities, as detailed in note 17 .
II. Business combinations and intangible assets
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods used to value such 
intangible assets require the use of estimates such as customer attrition, cash flow generation from the existing relationships with 
customers and returns on other assets. Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the 
estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, along with the finite lived intangible assets and other assets of the 
Group’s cash generating units. Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including discount rates, 
timing and growth prospects) which are inherently subjective. The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in respect of the tests 
for impairment, as detailed in note 8. The useful lives of the Group’s finite lived intangible assets are reviewed following the tests for 
impairment annually. 
Judgement may also be required in determining the fair value of other assets acquired and liabilities (including contingent 
liabilities) assumed.
III. Taxation
Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in 
each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together 
with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.  
Where management conclude that a tax position is uncertain, a current tax liability is held for anticipated taxes that are considered 
probable based on the information available. Key judgement areas for the Group include the pricing of intercompany goods and 
services as well as the tax consequences arising from restructuring operations. Included in the tax payable is a liability of £14.1m 
(2014: £10.4m) for transfer pricing matters and £10.7m (2014: £12.8m) for other uncertain tax positions. The movement is due to 
adjustments for current year transactions, expiry of statute of limitations following the passage of time and agreement reached 
with tax authorities on previous matters. Management may engage with professional advisors in making their assessment and, 
if appropriate, will liaise with the relevant taxation authorities to resolve the matter. The tax liability is reassessed in each period  
to reflect management’s best estimate in light of information available. If the final outcome of these matters differs to the liability 
held in the Financial Statements, the difference may impact the income tax charge / (credit) in the year the matter is concluded. 
IV. Provisions 
Essentra’s provisions are management’s best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event, based on currently available information. By their nature these provisions are judgemental, 
reflecting management’s assessment of factors such as likelihood of product returns and warranty claims, timing of liabilities and 
possible amounts involved. The Group performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of provision judgements that are material.
V. Depreciation 
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Group. Therefore, the estimates and assumptions 
made to determine their carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Group’s financial position and performance. The charge 
in respect of depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected residual value at the 
end of its life. Decreasing an asset’s expected life or its residual value would result in a higher depreciation charge in the income statement. 
The useful lives of the Group’s assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed at least annually for 
appropriateness. The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact 
their life, such as changes in technology. Historically changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material changes to the 
Group’s depreciation charge.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES 1. Segment analysis
In accordance with IFRS 8, Essentra has determined its operating segments based upon the information reported to the Group 
Management Committee. These segments are as follows:
Distribution consists of a Component Distribution business, a Speciality Tapes business and a Security business. Component 
Distribution is a global market leading manufacturer and distributor of plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip moulded, and metal items. 
The Speciality Tapes business has expertise in coating multiple adhesive systems in numerous technologies. The Security business has 
been at the forefront of ID technology for over 30 years, and has access to the widest portfolio of products and services, including 
printers, software and consumables from leading manufacturers.
Health and Personal Care Packaging is a leading global provider of packaging and authentication solutions to a diversified 
blue-chip customer base in the health and personal care, consumer and specialist packaging sectors, and to the paper and board 
industries.
Filter Products is a global independent cigarette filter manufacturer supplying a wide range of value-adding high-quality innovative 
filters, packaging solutions to the roll your own segment and analytical laboratory services for ingredient measurement for the industry.
Specialist Technologies is a leading provider of specialised solutions to an international customer base in a diverse range of 
end-markets, including oil and gas, construction, point of sale, health & personal care and consumer goods.
With effect from 1 January 2016, a new organisation structure has been implemented, comprising three strategic business units 
(see note 29 for further details).
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES
NOTES 1. Segment analysis continued 
2015
Distribution
£m
Health & 
Personal Care 
Packaging
£m
Filter 
Products
£m
Specialist 
Technologies 
£m
Eliminations
£m
Central 
Services
1
 
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
E x t e r n a l r e v e n u e   267.3 393.8 302.0 135.0 – – 1,098.1 – 1,098.1
Intersegment revenue 1.3 0.6 0.6 0.5 (3.0) – – – –
Total revenue 268.6 394.4 302.6 135.5 (3.0) – 1,098.1 – 1,098.1
Operating profit / 
(loss) before 
intangible 
amortisation  
and exceptional 
operating items 60.3 52.2 55.4 19.8 – (16.2) 171.5 – 171.5
Intangible 
amortisation (9.4) (19.9) – (2.4) – – (31.7) – (31.7)
Exceptional 
operating items 1.8 (31.3) (11.5) – – 1.9 (39.1) – (39.1)
Operating  
profit / (loss) 52.7 1.0 43.9 17.4 (14.3) 100.7 – 100.7
Segment assets 154.6 219.7 169.3 108.2 – 9.7 661.5 – 661.5
Intangible assets 185.3 453.2 – 53.1 – – 691.6 – 691.6
Unallocated items
2
– – – – – 63.8 63.8 – 63.8
Total assets 339.9 672.9 169.3 161.3 – 73.5 1,416.9 – 1,416.9
Segment liabilities 44.8 109.8 61.6 18.5 – 18.0 252.7 – 252.7
Unallocated items
2
– – – – – 549.0 549.0 – 549.0
Total liabilities 44.8 109.8 61.6 18.5 – 567.0 801.7 – 801.7
Other segment 
items
Capital expenditure 9.3 26.1 10.1 8.4 – 4.7 58.6 – 58.6
Depreciation 7.2 9.5 8.8 6.3 – 0.1 31.9 – 31.9
Average number  
of employees 2,201 3,579 1,723 911 – 176 8,590 – 8,590
1
  Central Services includes executive and non-executive management, group finance, tax, treasury, legal, group assurance, human resources, 
information technology, corporate development, corporate affairs and other services provided centrally to support the operating segments
2
 The unallocated assets relate to income and deferred tax assets, retirement benefit assets, derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.  
The unallocated liabilities relate to interest bearing loans and borrowings, retirement benefit obligations, derivatives, deferred tax liabilities  
and income tax payable. Intersegment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis
Continuing operations’ net finance expense of £10.3m (2014: £9.1m) and income tax expense of £21.7m (2014: £27 .9m) cannot 
be meaningfully allocated by segment.
No customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue in either 2015 or 2014. Analysed by destination, revenue to Europe and  
Africa is £547 .5m (2014: £438.6m), revenue to Americas is £371.6m (2014: £260.0m) and revenue to Asia and Middle East is 
£178.8m (2014: £167 .1m). Revenue to the UK is £165.7m (2014: £118.6m), with other significant countries being the USA with 
revenue of £298.4m (2014: £213.5m), Ireland £46.7m (2014: £20.5m) and Germany £45.2m (2014: £47 .1m). Non-current assets 
in the UK total £230.9m (2014: £179.2m), with the other significant location being the USA with £396.8m (2014: £205.6m).
Included within revenue is the net gain arising from the change in the fair value of forward exchange cash flow hedges transferred  
to the income statement of £0.5m (2014: net loss of £0.1m).
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 1. Segment analysis continued 
2014
Distribution
£m
Health & 
Personal Care 
Packaging
£m
Filter 
Products
£m
Specialist 
Technologies
£m
Eliminations
£m
Central 
Services
1
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
E x t e r n a l r e v e n u e   243.7 168.8 291.4 161.8 – – 865.7 – 865.7
Intersegment revenue 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.3 (1.2) – – – –
Total revenue 244.0 169.3 291.5 162.1 (1.2) – 865.7 – 865.7
Operating profit / 
(loss) before 
intangible 
amortisation  
and exceptional 
operating items 56.9 30.8 39.0 29.8 – (14.0) 142.5 – 142.5
Intangible 
amortisation (8.4) (7.0) – (2.1) – – (17.5) – (17.5)
Exceptional 
operating items (4.0) (11.6) (0.4) (0.2) – (16.2) – (16.2)
Operating  
profit / (loss) 44.5 12.2 38.6 27.5 – (14.0) 108.8 108.8
Segment assets 137.5 102.5 133.6 103.3 – 5.0 481.9 – 481.9
Intangible assets 188.4 163.9 – 54.1 – – 406.4 – 406.4
Unallocated items
2
– – – – – 92.6 92.6 – 92.6
Total assets 325.9 266.4 133.6 157.4 – 97.6 980.9 980.9
Segment liabilities 42.7 36.5 38.8 20.4 – 27.0 165.4 2.5 167.9
Unallocated items
2
– – – – – 215.2 215.2 – 215.2
Total liabilities 42.7 36.5 38.8 20.4 – 242.2 380.6 2.5 383.1
Other segment 
items
Capital expenditure 9.4 10.6 8.4 7.0 – 2.7 38.1 – 38.1
Depreciation 6.4 5.6 8.5 6.3 – 0.4 27.2 – 27.2
Average number  
of employees 1,641 1,322 1,732 1,022 – 109 5,826 – 5,826
1
 Central Services includes executive and non-executive management, group finance, tax, treasury, legal, group assurance, human resources, 
information technology, corporate development, corporate affairs and other services provided centrally to support the operating segments
2
 The unallocated assets relate to income and deferred tax assets, retirement benefit assets, derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.  
The unallocated liabilities relate to interest bearing loans and borrowings, retirement benefit obligations, derivatives, deferred tax liabilities  
and income tax payable. Intersegment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 2. Net operating expense
  
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (4.9) (2.7)
Raw materials and consumables 479.3 373.2
Personnel expense (note 5) 260.2 194.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 7) 31.9 27.2
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 8) 31.7 17.5
Exceptional operating items 39.1 16.2
Operating lease expense 9.1 7.1
Exchange differences recognised in profit or loss (2.2) 0.4
Other operating expenses 153.2 123.5
Net operating expense 997.4 756.9
No income or expense (2014: £nil) was recognised in operating expense during the year in respect of ineffective cash flow hedges. 
Essentra’s hedges of net investments were also entirely effective in 2015 and 2014, as defined by IAS 39, and therefore no hedge 
ineffectiveness has been recognised in net operating expense in 2015 (2014: £nil). Research and development expenses (including 
relevant staff costs) incurred during the year amounted to £6.0m (2014: £7 .3m). 
Other operating expenses include manufacturing, selling, general and administrative overheads.
Exceptional operating items
  
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Acquisition fees
1
0.2 7.1
Acquisition integration and restructuring costs
2
34.1 9.3
Other
3
4.8 (0.2)
39.1 16.2
Exceptional tax items
4
(1.7) –
1
 Transaction costs incurred during the year primarily in respect of the acquisition of Specialty Plastics (2014: Kelvindale, Abric and Clondalkin SPD)
2
 Acquisition integration and restructuring costs incurred during the year associated with the acquisitions of Clondalkin SPD, Abric and Specialty 
Plastics (2014: Kelvindale, Contego, Dakota, Mesan and Abric) 
3
 Other exceptional items incurred during the year relate to costs associated with the closure of the Filters site in Jarrow of £11.5m, offset by a release 
of £1.9m in respect of warranty obligations for the 2007 disposal of Globalpack, and a £4.8m credit adjustment for contingent deferred consideration 
in relation to prior period acquisitions (2014: comprise £0.4m loss on disposal of Filters Jordan and a £0.6m credit adjustment for contingent deferred 
consideration in relation to the acquisition of Ulinco)
4
 Exceptional tax items relate to the release of tax indemnity provisions of £1.7 million in respect of the 2007 Globalpack disposal
The tax effect of the exceptional items is a credit of £6.1m (2014: £0.9m).
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 2. Net operating expense continued
Auditor’s remuneration 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Audit of these Financial Statements 0.3 0.3
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of Financial Statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.9 0.7
Tax compliance services – 0.2
Other tax advisory services – –
Corporate finance services
2
– 0.1
Other services
1,4
0.3 0.1
Total fees
3
1.5 1.4
1  
Fees for other services related principally to the review of the half year Financial Statements and assurance services relating to the review of opening 
balance sheet in connection with the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD
2 
The Company believes that, given their detailed knowledge of Essentra’s operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance 
of carrying out detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for certain audit-related work to be carried out by the 
Company’s auditor rather than another firm of accountants. The Audit Committee, which consists of independent Non-Executive Directors, 
reviews and approves the level and nature of non-audit work which the auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, thus ensuring 
that the auditor’s objectivity and independence is not compromised
3 
£0.2m (2014: £0.1m) of the total non-audit fees were charged in the UK
4 
Fees of £15,335 (2014: £15,335) were paid in relation to the audit of the Essentra pension schemes
3. Net finance expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance income
Bank deposits 0.6 0.2
Net interest on net pension scheme assets (note 17) 0.9 1.2
1.5 1.4
Finance expense
Interest on loans and overdrafts (9.5) (8.4)
Amortisation of bank facility fees (0.7) (1.1)
Other finance expense (0.5) (0.4)
Net interest on pension scheme liabilities (note 17) (1.1) (0.6)
(11.8) (10.5)
Net finance expense (10.3) (9.1)
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 4. Income tax expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts charged in the consolidated income statement
Current tax 22.8 26.3
Prior years’ tax 0.5 1.0
Double tax relief – –
Deferred tax (note 15) (1.6) 0.6
Income tax expense 21.7 27.9
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Deferred tax charge / (credit) on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 0.2 (5.0)
Income tax charge / (credit) on effective net investment hedges 0.1 (0.5)
Income tax charge / (credit) 0.3 (5.5)
Factors affecting income tax expense for the year
Essentra operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions. Essentra calculates its average 
expected tax rate as a weighted average of the applicable corporate income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before income tax 90.4 99.7
Tax at weighted average tax rate (2015: 20.9%; 2014: 22.0%)
1
18.9 21.9
Effects of:
Permanent disallowable items (including exceptional costs)
2
2.1 1.4
Non-taxable exceptional items
3
(1.4) –
Overseas state and local tax 1.2 0.8
Unrecognised tax attributes arising / (utilised)
4
(0.2) 3.6
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (2.3) 0.4
Withholding tax on unremitted earnings
5
3.0 –
Change in tax rates
6
(0.9) –
Other items
7
1.3 (0.2)
Income tax expense 21.7 27.9
Income tax expense in the UK is £0.7m (2014: £4.6m). This is primarily due to significant exceptional costs incurred in 2015 relating 
to the UK businesses. 
1
  The change in the weighted average applicable tax rate is caused by a change in the geographical balance of the Group’s profits and by changes 
in corporate tax rates in these geographies
2
  The acquisition of Clondalkin led to significant restructuring activities in the year. Accordingly, permanent disallowable items may vary in future years.
3
  See note 2 and analysis of other exceptional operating items. Income from the release of warranty obligation in relation to the disposal of Globalpack 
and an adjustment for contingent deferred consideration in relation to prior acquisitions are included at the UK rate of 20.25%
4
  See further information regarding deferred tax asset recognition in note 15
5
  Essentra is able to control the timing and amount of remitted earnings, and therefore this amount may vary in future years
6
  The UK corporate tax rate reduced from 21% to 20% on 1 April 2015, and further reductions to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020 
have been enacted during 2015. The impact of these enacted changes on deferred tax for the UK is £0.6m. The remaining £0.3m relates to changes 
in overseas tax rates
7
  Adjustments to current year uncertain tax positions and sundry items
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 5. Personnel expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 224.8 162.4
Social security expense 23.5 19.1
Pension expense (note 17) 6.2 6.2
Share option expense (note 17) 5.7 6.8
260.2 194.5
The Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 62 to 78 sets out information on Directors’ remuneration.
Key management remuneration
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 4.7 6.2
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6
Share-based payments 3.6 4.3
8.9 11.1
Essentra considers key management personnel to be the Directors and the members of the Group Management Committee. 
The amounts disclosed are on the same basis as those used to determine the relevant amounts disclosed in the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee.
6. Earnings per share
2015
£m
2014
£m
Continuing operations
Earnings attributable to equity holders of Essentra plc 67.9 71.0
Adjustments
Intangible amortisation 31.7 17.5
Exceptional operating items 39.1 16.2
70.8 33.7
Tax relief on adjustments (13.4) (5.4)
Exceptional tax charge (1.7) –
Adjusted earnings 123.6 99.3
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (m) 259.5 236.8
Dilutive effect of employee share option plans (m) 3.7 5.0
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (m) 263.2 241.8
Continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 26.2p 30.0p
Adjustment 21.4p 11.9p
Basic adjusted earnings per share 47.6p 41.9p
Diluted earnings per share 25.8p 29.4p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 47.0p 41.1p
   
Adjusted earnings per share is provided to reflect the underlying earnings performance of Essentra.
The basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes shares held in treasury and shares held by an employee 
benefit trust. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 7 . Property, plant and equipment
 
2015
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 91.8 337.6 57.8 487.2
Acquisitions (note 23) 16.5 17 .6 1.5 35.6
Additions 4.9 48.6 7.0 60.5
Disposals (1.7) (20.2) (5.9) (27.8)
Currency translation 0.1 (0.3) – (0.2)
End of year 111.6 383.3 60.4 555.3
Depreciation and impairment
Beginning of year 21.6 201.9 33.2 256.7
Depreciation charge for the year 3.2 23.8 4.9 31.9
Impairment 0.7 1.1 1.1 2.9
Disposals (0.6) (17.4) (5.5) (23.5)
Currency translation (0.5) (0.9) (0.1) (1.5)
End of year 24.4 208.5 33.6 266.5
Net book value at end of year 87.2 174.8 26.8 288.8
2014
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 92.3 317.9 51.8 462.0
Acquisitions 1.9 1.5 0.2 3.6
Additions 4.8 26.9 8.8 40.5
Disposals (7.6) (10.0) (3.1) (20.7)
Currency translation 0.4 1.3 0.1 1.8
End of year 91.8 337.6 57.8 487.2
Depreciation and impairment
Beginning of year 25.8 189.9 32.6 248.3
Depreciation charge for the year 2.4 21.5 3.3 27.2
Disposals (6.1) (9.2) (2.8) (18.1)
Currency translation (0.5) (0.3) 0.1 (0.7)
End of year 21.6 201.9 33.2 256.7
Net book value at end of year 70.2 135.7 24.6 230.5
Included within land and buildings and plant and machinery are assets in the course of construction of £18.4m (2014: £5.2m) 
which were not depreciated during the year.
Contractual commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment amounted to £3.3m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £4.1m). 
The net book value of assets under finance leases amounted to £3.6m as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £4.6m).
Impairment charge in the year of £2.9m (2014: £nil) related to assets written down as part of the restructuring of certain of the 
Group’s operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 8. Intangible assets
2015
Goodwill
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 211.8 235.6 15.0 462.4
Acquisitions (note 23) 158.7 164.5 – 323.2
Currency translation (3.3) (2.9) 0.7 (5.5)
End of year 367.2 397.2 15.7 780.1
Amortisation
Beginning of year – 49.3 6.7 56.0
Charge for the year – 30.2 1.5 31.7
Currency translation – 0.5 0.3 0.8
End of year – 80.0 8.5 88.5
Net book value at end of year 367.2 317.2 7.2 691.6
2014
Goodwill
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 196.2 224.1 14.2 434.5
Acquisitions 16.2 11.7 – 27.9
Currency translation (0.6) (0.2) 0.8 –
End of year 211.8 235.6 15.0 462.4
Amortisation
Beginning of year – 32.7 5.1 37.8
Charge for the year – 16.3 1.2 17.5
Currency translation – 0.3 0.4 0.7
End of year – 49.3 6.7 56.0
Net book value at end of year 211.8 186.3 8.3 406.4
Other intangible assets principally comprise trade names acquired with Lendell and Reid Supply, developed technology acquired 
with Lendell, Richco and Lymtech, and order backlog.
The weighted average useful economic lives of customer relationships and other intangible assets at the end of the year were 
14.2 years and 10.6 years (2014: 15.0 years and 10.7 years) respectively.
Essentra tests intangible assets annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment. A discounted cash 
flow analysis is computed to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of the goodwill 
and other intangible assets for each cash generating unit or group of cash generating units as appropriate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 8. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash generating units, being the operating segments, as follows:
Operating segment
Goodwill
2015
£m
2014
£m
Distribution 89.5 87.9
Health & Personal Care Packaging 243.8 90.4
Specialist Technologies 33.9 33.5
367.2 211.8
Intangible assets, apart from goodwill, are allocated to the businesses to which they relate as shown below:
Business Operating segment
Customer relationships 
and other intangible 
assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
Components – Businesses of former Moss and Skiffy Distribution 12.6 14.2
Components – Businesses of former Richco Distribution 32.8 33.9
Components – Business of former Reid Supply Distribution 7.6 8.3
Components – Business of former Mesan Distribution 13.1 16.9
Components – Abric Distribution 10.9 10.4
Healthcare – Clondalkin Health & Personal Care Packaging 147.2 –
Porous St. Charles Specialist Technologies 4.0 4.8
Porous Chicopee Specialist Technologies 13.4 13.8
Packaging Health & Personal Care Packaging 2.7 3.2
Speciality Tapes Distribution 12.7 13.4
Healthcare Health & Personal Care Packaging 61.1 69.1
Multiple businesses Multiple segments 6.3 6.6
324.4 194.6
The goodwill impairment tests are based on the following assumptions:
 > Cash flows for the next two years are based upon the Group’s annual Plan. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections for 
the Group’s annual Plan are the revenue growth and operating margin for each division. Operating margin is primarily based on 
the levels achieved in 2015, which are disclosed in note 1, adjusted by targets set for revenue expansion and cost control and 
reduction for each individual division within the Plan period
 > Cash flows beyond the Plan period are based on year two’s Plan cash flows with growth rates specific to each business which 
range from nil to 2% (2014: nil to 3%)
 > The estimated cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon Essentra’s estimated post-tax weighted 
average cost of capital of 9.3% (2014: 9.3%) adjusted for the risk applicable to each operating segment. The pre-tax discount 
rates applied for each group of cash generating units to which significant goodwill is allocated are as follows: 16.2% for 
Distribution, 11.4% for Health & Personal Care Packaging and 12.7% for Specialist Technologies (2014: 16.7% for Component 
& Protection Solutions, 13.1% for Porous Technologies, 11.7% for Packaging & Securing Solutions and 11.7% for Other)
Any impairment losses identified as a result of the analysis are recognised in profit or loss. The test is dependent on management 
estimates and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, and the discount rate applied to these 
cash flows.
The Group performed various sensitivity analyses which involved reducing future cash flows by up to 40%, reducing terminal growth 
rates by up to 2 percentage points or increasing discount rates by up to 80 basis points. The results of these analyses showed that, 
despite significantly lower post-tax operating cash flows or increased pre-tax discount rates, the value in use of goodwill and other 
intangible assets continued to exceed their carrying value.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 9. Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 56.5 34.7
Work-in-progress 10.5 4.5
Finished goods and goods held for resale 51.7 45.6
118.7 84.8
The amount of inventories written down in both 2015 and 2014 was not material. 
10. Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 224.9 145.5
Other receivables 19.8 12.8
Prepayments and accrued income 8.5 7.1
253.2 165.4
11. Cash and cash equivalents
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank balances 23.8 26.5
Short-term bank deposits and investments 6.4 19.5
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 30.2 46.0
12. Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 144.0 77.3
Other tax and social security contributions 11.5 7.3
Other payables 32.3 19.4
Accruals and deferred income 54.1 52.8
241.9 156.8
13. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 294.1 0.4
US Private Placement Loan Notes 108.3 101.9
Finance lease liabilities 1.1 1.9
403.5 104.2
 
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans – 4.9
Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.9
0.6 5.8
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 13. Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
At 31 December 2015, the Group had £nil (2014: £nil), $283m (2014: $nil) and €140m (2014: €nil) of unsecured bank loans drawn in 
US dollars and euros at floating rates of interest set by reference to LIBOR. Essentra’s two $80m US Private Placement Loan Notes 
are at interest rate of 5.37% and 5.91% per annum respectively. At 31 December 2014, the unsecured bank loans were repaid with 
the proceeds from the share placing during 2014.
The currency profile of the carrying and nominal values of Essentra’s loans and borrowings is as follows:
2015 2014
Carrying 
value
£m
Nominal 
value
£m
Carrying 
value
£m
Nominal 
value
£m
Sterling 0.9 0.9 1.2 1.2
US dollar 300.1 301.3 104.0 104.7
Euro 103.1 103.8 1.2 1.2
Other – – 3.6 3.6
404.1 406.0 110.0 110.7
The difference between the total nominal and carrying value of loans and borrowings relates to the amortised value of prepaid facility 
fees of £1.9m (2014: £0.7m). In 2014, the amount in ‘Other’ related mainly to the Abric operations acquired in 2014.
14. Derivatives
Essentra uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and 
investment activities. In accordance with its Treasury policy, Essentra does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 
Assets Liabilities
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
At 31 December 2015
Fair value derivatives
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 45.1 (0.1) 30.0
Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 15.9 (0.3) 20.1
0.4 61.0 (0.4) 50.1
 
Assets Liabilities
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
Fair values 
£m
Contractual 
or notional 
amounts 
£m
At 31 December 2014
Fair value derivatives
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.4 7.9 – 4.0
Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.5 194.7 (0.1) 27.4
3.9 202.6 (0.1) 31.4
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 14. Derivatives continued
Fair value derivatives protect the Group from currency risk exposure from changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities 
or a previously unrecognised firm commitment to buy or sell assets at a fixed price. 
Cash flow hedges are hedges of the currency and interest rate risk exposure to variability in cash flows. Of the balance at 
31 December 2014, £2.9m relates to a cash flow hedge on the consideration for the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD, which 
completed on 30 January 2015 (see note 23). The other cash flow hedges relate to usual trading transactions in foreign currencies.
Hedges of net investments are hedges of the currency risk exposure to changes in the carrying value of recognised investments 
in foreign operations. 
The net fair value gains on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge foreign currency risk of anticipated future sales 
and purchases will be transferred to the income statement when the forecast sales and purchases occur. All of the hedged 
transactions are expected to occur over the next 15 months and all derivative instruments mature within the next 15 months.
Essentra had US dollar and euro denominated borrowings which it designated as hedges of its net investments in subsidiary 
undertakings. The exchange gains of £13.7m (2014: losses of £6.2m) on the US dollar borrowings and the losses of £7 .7m 
(2014: gains of £3.9m) on the euro borrowings were recognised in other comprehensive income.
Finance income and expense arising on financial assets and financial liabilities held at amortised cost are those amounts, 
excluding interest on pension scheme assets and interest on pension scheme liabilities, detailed in note 3. 
15. Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
2015 2014
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net
£m
Property, plant and equipment
1
(2.2) 17.1 14.9 (2.7) 16.2 13.5
Intangible assets
2
– 83.3 83.3 (0.5) 42.1 41.6
Employee benefits
3
(10.9) 5.3 (5.6) (13.6) 4.6 (9.0)
Other
4
(8.1) 3.9 (4.2) (10.8) 7.6 (3.2)
Tax (assets)/liabilities (21.2) 109.6 88.4 (27.6) 70.5 42.9
Set off of tax 16.6 (16.6) – 15.8 (15.8) –
Net tax (assets)/liabilities (4.6) 93.0 88.4 (11.8) 54.7 42.9
1
 A deferred tax liability arises on property, plant and equipment as the tax value of assets is lower than the corresponding accounting value. This arises 
as tax deductions are determined by the applicable tax laws in each country the Group operates in whereas accounting depreciation is calculated in 
line with the Group’s accounting policy
2
 A deferred tax liability is provided on temporary differences arising on the Group’s intangible assets as in the majority of cases the local tax authorities 
do not allow deduction for the amortisation of these intangible assets. The increase during the year is due to the acquisition of the Clondalkin SPD 
business (see note 23)
3
 This represents deferred tax on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and share-based incentives
4
 This includes expenditure that will be deductible in future periods for tax purposes when the amounts are settled in cash, and withholding tax on 
overseas earnings from group companies expected to be remitted in the foreseeable future of £3.0m (2014: £nil)
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 15. Deferred tax continued 
Movements in the year:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 42.9 40.7
Charge to the income statement in respect of current year 1.2 1.3
Credit to the income statement in respect of prior years (2.8) (0.7)
Charge / (credit) to other comprehensive income 0.2 (5.0)
Charge to reserves on share-based incentives 2.3 3.4
Acquisitions 45.3 2.8
Currency translation (0.7) 0.4
End of year 88.4 42.9
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where Essentra is able to control the 
remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability 
would arise on the remittance. At the year end it is expected that earnings from certain overseas group companies will be remitted 
and a deferred tax liability of £3.0m (2014: £nil) has been recognised accordingly. This represents withholding taxes payable on the 
remittance of these earnings under local tax laws. The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries 
and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £102.0m as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £94.8m), and the 
associated amount of unrecognised deferred tax is £13.9m (2014: £9.1m). 
Based on available information, management determined whether it is probable for some or all of the deferred tax assets to be 
realised. In determining this, management considered the cumulative losses in prior years, the history of tax losses, the manner in 
which assets can be used (including time limitations under local laws), future earnings potential and expectation of future reversal 
of taxable temporary differences. Following management assessment, deferred tax assets of £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) in respect of capital 
losses and unutilised tax losses of £30.9m (2014: £30.9m) have not been recognised where their realisation is not considered probable. 
The capital losses have an unlimited expiry date. The tax losses expire as follows: £nil within five years, £4.5m in five to ten years, 
£10.5m in over ten years and £15.9m with no expiry. If future conditions change the amount of unrecognised deferred tax assets will 
be reassessed. This may impact the income tax expense / (credit) in that year.
16. Provisions
2015
Discontinued
£m
Reorganisation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 2.5 0.5 4.6 7.6
Provisions made during the year – 2.5 1.1 3.6
Pro visions released during the year (2.0) – (2.7) (4.7)
Utilised during the year – – (0.3) (0.3)
Acquisitions – 0.1 5.4 5.5
Transferred to accruals and other payables – (0.2) – (0.2)
Currency translation (0.5) – (0.2) (0.7)
End of year – 2.9 7.9 10.8
Non-current – – 2.8 2.8
Current – 2.9 5.1 8.0
– 2.9 7.9 10.8
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 16. Provisions continued
2014
Discontinued
£m
Reorganisation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 2.3 3.6 9.5 15.4
Provisions made during the year – 2.9 0.2 3.1
Provisions released during the year – – (2.3) (2.3)
Utilised during the year – (5.9) (2.6) (8.5)
Transferred to accruals and other payables – – (0.1) (0.1)
Currency translation 0.2 (0.1) (0.1) –
End of year 2.5 0.5 4.6 7.6
Non-current – – 3.4 3.4
Current 2.5 0.5 1.2 4.2
2.5 0.5 4.6 7.6
Discontinued provisions in 2014 related to warranties made on the disposal of Globalpack, which was released in 2015. Reorganisation 
provisions are held against restructuring and redundancy costs, primarily related to the integration of acquired businesses and 
restructuring associated with acquisitions. Other provisions relate primarily to vacant properties, lease dilapidations, employees’ 
compensation claims, other claims, environmental liabilities and product warranties. Non-current provisions are generally long-term 
in nature with uncertain timing of utilisation. The release of other provisions during the year relates mostly to claims, property related 
provisions and warranty liabilities.
17 . Employee benefits 
Post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes around the world covering many of 
its employees. The Group also has a number of other post-employment obligations in certain countries, some of which are required 
under local law.
The defined benefit plans are administered by boards of trustees and the assets are held independently from Essentra. The boards 
of trustees comprise member nominated trustees, employer nominated trustees and independent advisory trustees. The articles 
of the plans prohibit a majority on the boards to be established by either the member or employer nominated trustees.
Pension costs of the defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified 
actuaries. Full triennial actuarial valuations were carried out on the principal European defined benefit schemes as at 5 April 2015 
and annual actuarial valuations are performed on the principal US defined benefit schemes. The assets and liabilities of the defined 
benefit schemes have been updated to the balance sheet date from the most recently completed actuarial valuations taking account 
of the investment returns achieved by the schemes and the level of contributions.
The principal European defined benefit schemes entitle remaining members to a pension calculated on 1.25% or 2% of their capped 
final pensionable pay multiplied by the number of pensionable years of service. Some members have historical entitlements to accrual 
rates of 1.67%-1.9% and 3% for certain tranches of their service. The principal US defined benefit schemes entitle certain participating 
employees to annuity benefits equal to 50% of final average pensionable salary, reduced for years of service less than 30, and other 
participating employees to annuity benefits equal to $49 per month for each year of service.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 17 . Employee benefits continued
The amounts included in the consolidated Financial Statements are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts expensed against operating profit
Defined contribution schemes 6.7 4.9
Defined benefit schemes – service cost 2.4 2.2
Defined benefit schemes – curtailment gain (3.0) –
Defined benefit schemes – settlement gain – (1.4)
Other post-employment obligations 0.1 0.5
Total operating expense 6.2 6.2
Amounts included as finance (income) / expense
Net interest on defined benefit scheme assets (note 3) (0.9) (1.2)
Net interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities (note 3) 1.1 0.6
Net finance expense / (income) 0.2 (0.6)
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Return on defined benefit scheme assets excluding amounts in net finance income 8.5 (16.7)
Impact of changes in assumptions and experience to the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities (10.4) 32.5
Remeasurement of defined benefit schemes (1.9) 15.8
During 2015, the principal defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and the US were closed to future accrual, and curtailment 
gains were recognised in profit or loss accordingly. During 2014, an offer to settle the pension obligations was made by the US board 
of trustees to deferred members of the US pension schemes, and a settlement gain was recognised in profit or loss relating to those 
members who accepted the offer. Following the closure of the Group’s principal defined benefit pension schemes to future accruals, 
the schemes are funded by the Group’s subsidiaries and employees are not required to make any further contribution. The funding of 
these schemes is based on separate actuarial valuations for funding purposes for which the assumptions may differ from those used 
in the valuation for IAS 19 purposes.
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were:
Europe
2015 
US Europe
2014 
US
Increase in salaries (pre-2010)
1
n/a 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Increase in salaries (post-2010)
1
n/a 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Increase in pensions
1
at RPI capped at 5% 3.10% n/a 3.00% n/a
at CPI capped at 5% 2.20% n/a 2.10% n/a
at CPI minimum 3%, capped at 5% 3.30% n/a 3.20% n/a
at CPI capped at 2.5% 1.80% n/a 1.70% n/a
Discount rate 3.80% 4.37% 3.70% 4.00%
Inflation rate 2.70% n/a 2.60% n/a
1
  For service prior to April 2010, pension at retirement is linked to salary at retirement. For service after April 2010, pension is linked to salary at April 2010 
with annual increases capped at 3%
Due to the timescale covered, the assumptions applied may not be borne out in practice. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 17 . Employee benefits continued
The life expectancy assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations at the year end are:
Europe
2015
US Europe
2014
US
Male retiring today at age 65 22.4 21.2 22.4 21.6
Female retiring today at age 65 24.8 23.2 24.7 23.8
Male retiring in 20 years at age 65 24.3 22.9 24.3 23.3
Female retiring in 20 years at age 65 26.7 24.9 26.6 25.5
The allocation of assets between different classes of investment is reviewed regularly and is a key factor in the trustees’ investment 
policies. The allocation of assets is arrived at taking into consideration current market conditions and trends, the size of potential 
returns relative to investment risk and the extent to which asset realisation needs to match liability maturity. There are risks 
underlying these considerations. If asset returns fall below the returns required for scheme assets to match the present value of 
scheme liabilities, a scheme deficit results. Persistent deficits represent an obligation the Group has to settle through increased 
cash contributions. If asset maturities are not properly matched with liability maturities, there is also the risk that the Group could 
be required to make unplanned short-term cash contributions to resolve resulting liquidity issues. Scheme assets are invested by the 
trustees in asset classes and markets that are considered to be reasonably liquid, so this matching and liquidity risk is considered to 
be sufficiently mitigated.
The fair value of scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change 
before they are realised, and the present value of the pension scheme liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over 
long periods and are therefore inherently uncertain, are: 
2015
Europe  
£m
US 
£m
Total 
£m
Equities 32% 63.4 63% 30.3 93.7
Corporate bonds 18% 35.6 36% 17 .6 53.2
Government bonds 50% 99.0 – – 99.0
Other 0% 0.5 1% 0.3 0.8
Fair value of scheme assets 198.5 48.2 246.7
Present value of scheme liabilities (174.6) (71.2) (245.8)
Net retirement benefit assets / (obligations) 23.9 (23.0) 0.9
2014
Europe  
£m
US 
£m
Total 
£m
Equities 31% 62.6 61% 26.4 89.0
Corporate bonds 18% 35.3 36% 15.4 50.7
Government bonds 51% 103.8 – – 103.8
Other 0% 0.9 3% 1.2 2.1
Fair value of scheme assets 202.6 43.0 245.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (182.5) (62.6) (245.1)
Net retirement benefit assets / (obligations) 20.1 (19.6) 0.5
The equity, corporate bond and government bond assets are either direct investments or investments made via a managed fund 
for those asset classes. All of these assets have a quoted market price in an active market. The other asset class relates primarily 
to property and hedge funds, which are valued at their cumulative unit offer price. No direct investment in property is held. No plan 
assets are invested directly in the shares of Essentra plc.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 17 . Employee benefits continued
The pension surplus in Europe is not restricted as the asset is considered realisable on the basis of the Group’s unconditional right 
to a refund. 
The average expected duration of the Group’s European defined benefit pension liability at 31 December 2015 is 20 years 
(2014: 20 years). The average expected duration of the Group’s US defined benefit pension liability at 31 December 2015 is 
12.9 years (2014: 13.3 years).
The Group’s contributions to its defined benefit pension schemes are determined in consultation with trustees, taking into 
consideration actuarial advice, investment conditions and other local conditions and practices. In 2016, the Group expects to 
make defined benefit contributions of $3.7m to its US schemes. Contributions to its European schemes are being determined.
Movement in fair value of post-employment obligations during the year
2015 2014
Defined 
benefit 
pension 
scheme 
assets 
£m
Defined 
benefit 
pension 
scheme 
liabilities 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Defined 
benefit 
pension 
scheme 
assets 
£m
Defined 
benefit 
pension 
scheme 
liabilities 
£m
Other 
£m
Total
£m
Beginning of year 245.6 (245.1) (2.2) (1.7) 226.6 (213.3) (2.7) 10.6
Service cost and administrative expense (1.3) (1.1) (0.1) (2.5) (0.8) (1.4) (0.5) (2.7)
Employer contributions 3.9 – 0.1 4.0 4.3 0.1 0.8 5.2
Employee contributions 0.1 (0.1) – – 0.3 (0.3) – –
Return on plan assets excluding amounts 
in net finance income (8.5) – – (8.5) 16.7 – – 16.7
Actuarial gains / (losses) arising from 
change in financial assumptions – 6.2 – 6.2 – (27.9) – (27.9)
Actuarial losses arising from change in 
demographic assumptions – – – – – (4.2) – (4.2)
Actuarial gains / (losses) arising from 
experience adjustment – 4.2 – 4.2 – (0.4) – (0.4)
Finance income / (expense) 9.3 (9.5) – (0.2) 10.3 (9.7) – 0.6
Benefits paid (10.7) 10.7 0.5 0.5 (8.0) 8.0 – –
Curtailments – 3.0 – 3.0 – – – –
Settlements – – – – (6.4) 7.8 – 1.4
Currency translation 2.9 (3.8) – (0.9) 2.6 (3.8) 0.2 (1.0)
Business combination 5.4 (10.3) – (4.9) – – – –
End of year 246.7 (245.8) (1.7) (0.8) 245.6 (245.1) (2.2) (1.7)
Sensitivity
For the significant assumptions used in determining defined benefit costs and liabilities, the following sensitivity analysis gives 
the estimate of the impact on the income statement and balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Scheme liabilities
Europe
£m
US
£m
Total
£m
0.5% decrease in the discount rate (17.7) (3.6) (21.3)
1.0% increase in the rate of inflation (14.6) n/a (14.6)
1.0% increase in rate of salary / pension increases n/a n/a n/a
1 year increase in life expectancy (5.5) (1.4) (6.7)
0.5% increase in the discount rate 15.3 3.2 18.5
1.0% decrease in rate of salary / pension increases n/a n/a n/a
1.0% decrease in the rate of inflation 12.1 n/a 12.1
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 17 . Employee benefits continued
Share-based incentives
Essentra operates equity-settled share-based incentive plans for its Executive Directors and employees. The total expense in respect 
of these plans during the year was £5.7m (2014: £6.8m). Details of these plans are set out below: 
Share options outstanding
 
2015
At 1 Jan 
2015
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Granted 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercised 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
At 31 Dec 
2015
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercisable 
at 31 Dec 
2015
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
LTIP Part A 2,859,889 428.6p 383,266 997.0p (154,755) 668.3p (1,380,854) 328.6p 1,707,546 614.2p 723,703 283.6p
LTIP Part B 3,329,285 – 822,523 – (364,534) – (1,517 ,160) – 2,270,114 – – –
DASB 424,169 – 93,074 – (45,893) – (141,954) – 329,396 – – –
SAYE 3-year plan 561,833 533.8p 401,767 770.4p (137 ,579) 693.1p (184,098) 380.8p 641,923 691.6p – –
SAYE 5-year plan 345,138 399.8p 142,109 770.4p (57,923) 653.0p (107 ,616) 187 .7p 321,708 588.9p – –
US SAYE 2-year plan 51,968 716.1p 50,694 711.5p (8,546) 716.1p – – 94,116 713.6p – –
7,572,282 1,893,433 (769,230) (3,331,682) 5,364,803 723,703
 
 
2014
At 1 Jan 
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Granted 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercised 
during the 
year
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
At 31 Dec 
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Exercisable 
at 31 Dec 
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
LTIP Part A 4,348,939 325.1p 358,711 485.8p (335,307) 224.4p (1,512,454) 224.4p 2,859,889 428.6p 783,017 203.2p
LTIP Part B 3,220,308 – 873,135 – (161,596) – (602,562) – 3,329,285 – – –
DASB 428,090 – 150,023 – (18,850) – (135,094) – 424,169 – – –
SAYE 3-year plan 726,847 354.5p 256,447 545.2p (102,860) 255.6p (318,601) 255.6p 561,833 533.8p – –
SAYE 5-year plan 299,060 279.9p 114,794 469.5p (41,186) 248.1p (27,530) 248.1p 345,138 399.8p – –
US SAYE 2-year plan – – 52,134 716.1p (166) 716.1p – – 51,968 716.1p – –
9,023,244 1,805,244 (659,965) (2,596,241) 7 ,572,282 783,017
The exercise prices of options outstanding at the end of the year range from nil to 997 .0p.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 984.2p (2014: 848.1p). The following 
table shows the weighted average fair value at the date of grant for options granted during the year:
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3 year  
plan
SAYE  
5 year 
plan
Year ended 31 December 2015 181.3p 705.9p 939.8p 270.9p 304.1p
Year ended 31 December 2014 182.8p 635.6p 814.0p 339.6p 267.6p
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 17 . Employee benefits continued
Fair value model inputs for share options awarded
2015
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3-year  
plan
SAYE  
5-year  
plan
Weighted average fair value at grant 127.3p 625.5p 778.6p 247.8p 240.9p
Weighted average share price at grant 606.6p 835.6p 822.5p 902.3p 764.0p
Weighted average exercise price 614.2p – – 691.6p 588.9p
Weighted average volatility 30.2% 25.4% 25.5% 24.9% 29.6%
Weighted average dividend yield 2.51% 1.84% 1.84% 1.77% 2.05%
Weighted risk free rate 1.17% 0.76% 0.68% 0.89% 1.66%
Expected employee retention rates 87.1% 100.0% 100.0% 75.0% 75.0%
Expected term 3.16 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 5.00 years
Valuation model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial Binomial
2014
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3-year  
plan
SAYE  
5-year  
plan
Weighted average fair value at grant 99.3p 470.5p 631.2p 196.1p 173.2p
Weighted average share price at grant 428.6p 615.6p 668.9p 699.2p 518.9p
Weighted average exercise price 428.6p – – 533.7p 399.8p
Weighted average volatility 33.6% 28.3% 27.2% 26.8p 32.6p
Weighted average dividend yield 2.80% 2.07% 2.02% 1.91% 2.54%
Weighted risk free rate 1.26% 0.76% 0.64% 0.93% 2.27%
Expected employee retention rates 89.9% 100.0% 100.0% 75.0% 75.0%
Expected term 3.29 years 3.01 years 3.00 years 3.00 years 5.00 years
Valuation model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial Binomial
Where relevant, market conditions are taken into account in determining the fair value of the awards at grant date. The three-year 
average historic volatility at grant date has been used as the volatility input for the LTIP Part A, LTIP Part B, DASB and SAYE 3-year 
awards, and the five-year average historic volatility at grant date has been used as the volatility input for the SAYE 5-year award.
2015 and 2014
LTIP  
Part A
LTIP  
Part B DASB
SAYE  
3-year  
plan
SAYE  
5-year  
plan
Contractual life 3-10 years 3-6 years 3 years 3 years 5 years
Details of the vesting conditions of the LTIP Part A, LTIP Part B and DASB share option schemes are set out in the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee on pages 62 to 78.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management
Essentra’s activities expose the business to a number of key financial risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve 
its business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for Essentra’s system of internal control and financial risk management and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of this system. Such a system can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Essentra has a centralised treasury function to manage funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk. 
Treasury policies are approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of derivatives that may 
be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash. Essentra uses derivatives only to manage currency and interest rate 
risk arising from underlying business activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. The treasury function is 
subject to periodic independent reviews by the Group Assurance department. Underlying policy assumptions and activities are 
reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant 
combination of geographical presence, expertise and suitable credit rating. 
The following describes Essentra’s financial risk exposure and management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial asset or liability fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Essentra has no significant individual 
concentrations of credit risk. The following is an overview of how Essentra manages its credit risk exposures.
Trade and other receivables
Essentra’s exposure to credit risk is driven by the profile of its customers. This is influenced by the demographics of the customer base, 
including the industry and country in which customers operate. Trade and other receivables are generally due from customers who are 
unlikely to seek credit ratings as part of their normal course of business. 
Essentra monitors significant customers’ credit limits and there is an allowance for impairment that represents the estimate of 
potential losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The components of this allowance are a specific allowance for individual 
losses and a collective allowance for losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective allowance takes account 
of historical experience and the profile of customers.
As at 31 December 2015, gross trade receivables were £229.2m (2014: £151.8m) of which £43.7m (2014: £25.1m) were past due but 
not impaired. The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Up to three months 39.5 25.1
Over three months 4.2 –
43.7 25.1
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £4.3m (2014: £6.3m) were provided for as they were considered to be impaired.  
The ageing of the impaired receivables provided for is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Up to three months – 1.6
Over three months 4.3 4.7
4.3 6.3
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management continued
The movement in the provision for impaired receivables is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 6.3 5.7
Impaired receivables acquired 2.1 0.5
Impairment loss recognised 0.3 2.8
Release in the year (2.9) (1.6)
Utilisation (1.5) (1.1)
End of year 4.3 6.3
Derivative assets
Credit risk with respect to derivatives is controlled by limiting transactions to major banking counterparties where internationally 
agreed standard form documentation exists. The credit ratings of these counterparties are monitored.
Cash and cash equivalents
Credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents is monitored daily, on a counterparty by counterparty basis. The credit limits imposed 
specify the maximum amount of cash which can be invested in, or with, any single counterparty. These limits are determined by 
geographic presence, expertise and credit rating. Essentra monitors the credit ratings of counterparties.
The following credit risk table provides information regarding the credit risk exposure of Essentra by classifying derivative assets and 
cash and cash equivalents according to credit ratings of the counterparties. AAA is the highest possible rating and all of the assets 
are neither impaired nor past due.
2015
AAA 
£m
AA 
£m
A 
£m
BBB 
£m
BB 
£m
Not rated 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative assets – – 0.3 – 0.1 – 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents – 2.2 11.7 8.5 3.6 4.2 30.2
– 2.2 12.0 8.5 3.7 4.2 30.6
2014
AAA 
£m
AA 
£m
A 
£m
BBB 
£m
BB 
£m
Not rated 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative assets – 0.1 0.3 3.5 – – 3.9
Cash and cash equivalents – 2.6 13.9 27.5 1.0 1.0 46.0
– 2.7 14.2 31.0 1.0 1.0 49.9
Essentra’s maximum credit risk exposure is £274.4m (2014: £209.4m) and no collateral is held against this amount (2014: £nil).
ii) Market price risk
Market price risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect income or the value of financial assets 
and liabilities. Essentra has produced a sensitivity analysis that shows the estimated change to the income statement and equity of a 
1%, 5% or 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all other currencies or an increase or decrease of 50 basis points (“bps”), 
100bps and 200bps in market interest rates. The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates and actual results in 
the future may materially differ. 
Essentra is exposed to two types of market price risk: currency risk and interest rate risk.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management continued
a) Currency risk
Essentra publishes its consolidated Financial Statements in sterling but conducts business in several foreign currencies. Therefore, 
it is subject to currency risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the translation of results and underlying net assets of 
its operations and their transaction costs. 
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The majority of Essentra’s net assets are in currencies other than sterling. The Company’s normal policy is to limit the translation 
exposure and the resulting impact on shareholders’ funds through measures such as borrowing in those currencies in which the  
Group has significant net assets. Essentra’s US dollar denominated assets were approximately 78% (2014: 48%) hedged by the US 
dollar denominated borrowings. Essentra’s euro denominated assets were approximately 58% hedged by the euro denominated 
borrowings. At 31 December 2014, Essentra did not have any euro denominated borrowings as these were repaid with the proceeds 
from the share placing during 2014.
Transaction exposure hedging
The majority of Essentra’s transactions are carried out in the functional currencies of its operations and therefore transaction 
exposure is limited. However, where such exposure does occur, Essentra uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge its 
exposure to movements in exchange rates on its highly probable forecast foreign currency sales and purchases over a period 
of up to 18 months. 
Essentra does not formally define the proportion of highly probable forecast sales and purchases to hedge, but agrees an appropriate 
percentage on an individual basis with each business by reference to the Group’s risk management policies and prevailing market 
conditions. The Group documents currency derivatives used to hedge its forecast transactions as cash flow hedges. To the extent that 
cash flow hedges are effective, gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, 
at which point the gains and losses are transferred either to the income statement or to the non-financial asset acquired.
The following table shows Essentra’s sensitivity to a 1%, 5% and 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all currencies. 
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year all currencies’ average rates have been increased or decreased by 1%, 
5% or 10%. The translational effect on equity is limited as a proportion of US dollar and euro exposure is hedged. Accordingly the 
effect on equity is calculated by increasing or decreasing the closing rate of all currencies with an adjustment for the movement 
in currency hedges. It is assumed that all net investment and cash flow hedges will continue to be 100% effective.
2015
Weakening in sterling Strengthening in sterling
10% 
£m
5% 
£m 
1% 
£m
1% 
£m
5% 
£m
10% 
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 11.2 5.3 1.0 (1.0) (4.8) (9.2)
Impact on equity – gain / (loss) 45.3 21.5 4.1 (4.0) (19.4) (37.1)
2014
Weakening in sterling Strengthening in sterling
10% 
£m
5% 
£m 
1% 
£m
1% 
£m
5% 
£m
10% 
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 8.2 3.9 0.7 (0.7) (3.5) (6.7)
Impact on equity – gain / (loss) 46.2 21.9 4.2 (4.1) (19.8) (37.8)
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management continued
b) Interest rate risk
During 2014, Essentra’s strategy was to ensure with a reasonable degree of certainty that at least 50% of the overall net finance 
expense is protected against material adverse movements in interest rates using fixed interest rate debt, interest rate swaps and 
caps. With effect from 1 January 2015, Essentra implemented a revised policy, which is to ensure that at least 30% of the total debt 
with maturities of more than one year is protected with fixed interest rates or approved interest rate derivatives.
The following table shows Essentra’s sensitivity to a 50bps, 100bps and 200bps decrease or increase in sterling, US dollar and euro 
interest rates. To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all external floating rate interest 
bearing loans and borrowings have been increased or decreased by 50bps, 100bps or 200bps and the resulting increase or decrease 
in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of Essentra’s interest rate derivatives. At 31 December 2014, the Group 
had no significant floating rate debt and therefore has no significant sensitivity to interest rate movements. There is no impact on 
amounts recorded directly in other comprehensive income or equity. 
2015
Decrease in interest rates Increase in interest rates
200bps 
£m
100bps 
£m 
50bps 
£m
50bps 
£m
100bps 
£m
200bps 
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) 5.9 3.0 1.5 1.5 3.0 5.9
2014
Decrease in interest rates Increase in interest rates
200bps 
£m
100bps 
£m 
50bps 
£m
50bps 
£m
100bps 
£m
200bps 
£m
Impact on the income statement – gain / (loss) – – – – – –
See note 13 for interest rate disclosure on loans and borrowings.
iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Essentra, although solvent, will encounter difficulties in meeting obligations associated with financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
Essentra’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility. Essentra is mostly funded by two series 
of US$80m US Private Placement Loan Notes from various financial institutions and syndicated multi-currency five-year revolving 
credit facilities of £271.0m and €167 .5m from its bankers. The two series of Loan Notes of US$80m have original maturities of six 
and nine years and the revolving credit facilities mature in July 2019. At 31 December 2015 the available bank facilities totalled £394.2m 
(2014: £387 .0m) of which £295.5m (2014: £nil) was drawn down. In addition, uncommitted and overdraft facilities are maintained to 
provide short-term flexibility. During 2014, Essentra issued a total of 23,659,761 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 713.5p 
per share, raising gross proceeds of £168.8m, to fund the acquisition of the Specialist Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management continued
Amounts drawn by Essentra on its committed facilities are subject to standard banking covenants.
Essentra’s available undrawn committed facilities at 31 December were:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Expiring after two years 98.7 387.0
Any loans drawn on these facilities would bear interest at floating rates with reference to LIBOR for the currency and period of the loan.
The maturity of Essentra’s financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments, is analysed below. 
2015
Fair value
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
<1 yr
£m
1-2 yrs
£m
2-5 yrs
£m
>5 yrs 
£m
Unsecured bank loans 294.1 294.1 305.3 3.7 3.7 297.9 –
US Private Placement Loan Notes 117.4 108.3 127.7 6.1 59.1 62.5 –
Derivative liabilities 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 – – –
Trade and other payables 176.3 176.3 176.3 176.3 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 1.7 1.7 1.8 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.1
589.9 580.8 611.5 187.2 63.4 360.8 0.1
2014
Fair value
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
<1 yr
£m
1-2 yrs
£m
2-5 yrs
£m
>5 yrs 
£m
Unsecured bank loans 5.3 5.3 5.5 5.0 0.1 0.2 0.2
US Private Placement Loan Notes 111.3 101.9 126.1 5.8 5.8 61.7 52.8
Derivative liabilities 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – –
Trade and other payables 96.7 96.7 96.7 96.7 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 2.8 2.8 3.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 0.6
Other non-current financial liabilities 1.7 1.7 1.8 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.1
– Deferred contingent consideration 3.5 3.5 3.5 – 2.2 1.3 –
219.7 210.3 235.0 108.6 8.9 63.9 53.6
Total trade and other payables carried at £241.9m (2014: £156.8m) include accruals and deferred income of £54.1m (2014: £52.8m) 
and other taxes and social security contributions of £11.5m (2014: £7 .3m) which are not financial liabilities and are therefore excluded 
from the above analysis. All trade and other payables are due to be settled in less than six months. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management continued
Total financial assets and liabilities
The table below sets out Essentra’s accounting categories and fair value for each class of financial asset and liability.
 
2015 2014
Fair 
value 
 £m 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Amortised 
cost 
£m
Total 
carrying 
value 
£m 
Fair 
value 
£m 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Amortised 
cost 
£m
Total 
carrying 
value  
£m
Trade and other receivables – 243.8 – 243.8 – 161.4 – 161.4
Cash and cash equivalents – 30.2 – 30.2 – 46.0 – 46.0
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – (404.1) (404.1) – – (110.0) (110.0)
Trade and other payables – – (174.8) (174.8) – – (94.4) (94.4)
Level 2 of fair value hierarchy
Derivative assets 0.4 – – 0.4 3.9 – – 3.9
Derivative liabilities (0.4) – – (0.4) (0.1) – – (0.1)
Level 3 of fair value hierarchy
Other non-current financial liabilities – – – – (3.5) – – (3.5)
Other current payables (1.5) – – (1.5) (2.3) – – (2.3)
(1.5) 274.0 (578.9) (306.4) (2.0) 207.4 (204.4) 1.0
Total trade and other receivables carried at £254.0m (2014: £168.5m) include prepayments and accrued income of £8.5m  
(2014: £7 .1m) and consideration paid in advance in respect of business acquisition of £1.7m (2014: £nil) which are not financial assets 
and are therefore excluded from the above analysis. Fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps 
have been calculated at year end forward exchange rates compared to contracted rates. These are determined to be level 2 in the 
fair value hierarchy.
The only financial instrument with fair value determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, which is classified as  
level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, is the deferred contingent consideration of £1.5m relating to the acquisition of Mesan Kilit A.S. and 
Specialty Plastics (2014: £5.8m relating to the acquisition of Mesan Kilit A.S.). The fair value of the deferred contingent consideration 
is estimated based on an assessment of the likely outcome of the acquired business’ financial performance. There have been no 
transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy. There are no non-recurring fair value measurements. During the year, a fair value 
gain of £4.8m (2014: fair value gain of £0.6m) in respect of financial instruments at level 3 fair value hierarchy was recognised within 
exceptional items (see note 2), and £nil (2014: £nil) was settled in cash. No other fair value gains or losses were recorded in profit or 
loss and other comprehensive income.
Included within interest bearing loans and borrowings are $160m US Private Placement Loan Notes. The Loan Notes are held at 
amortised cost with a carrying value of £108.3m (2014: £101.9m). The Group estimates that the total fair value of the Loan Notes 
at 31 December 2015 is £117 .4m (2014: £111.3m).
All other financial assets, classified as ‘loans and receivables’, and trade and other payables, classified as ‘amortised cost’, are held  
at amortised cost and have short terms to maturity. For this reason, their carrying amounts at the reporting date approximate the 
fair values. Unsecured bank loans, included within interest bearing loans and borrowings, incur interest at floating rates and as a 
result their carrying amounts also approximate their fair values at the reporting date. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18. Financial risk management continued
The table below shows the amount of bank overdrafts offset against the bank balances under enforceable master netting 
agreements with banks:
Gross amount of 
recognised financial 
assets 
£m
Gross amount of 
recognised financial 
liabilities set off in 
the balance sheet 
£m
Net amount of 
financial assets 
presented in the 
balance sheet 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents:
At 31 December 2015 30.4 (0.2) 30.2
At 31 December 2014 48.4 (2.4) 46.0
iv) Capital structure
Essentra defines its capital structure as its equity and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings, and aims to manage 
this to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits 
for other stakeholders.
Essentra sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. Essentra manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in 
the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, Essentra may return capital to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, issue new shares or sell assets 
to reduce debt. 
Essentra monitors its capital structure on the basis of the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio. EBITDA is defined as operating 
profit before depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment, share option expense, intangible 
amortisation and exceptional operating items. Net debt is adjusted to exclude prepaid facility fees. During 2015, Essentra’s strategy, 
which was unchanged from 2014, was to maintain the medium-term net debt-to-EBITDA ratio in the range 1.0 to 2.5. The net 
debt-to-EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2014 was low due to the inclusion of proceeds from the issue of 23,659,761 shares during 2014, 
to fund the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD which was completed on 30 January 2015.
The net debt-to-EBITDA ratios at 31 December were:
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt excluding prepaid facility fees 375.8 64.7
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 171.5 142.5
Plus depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 7 31.9 27.2
Plus share option expense 17 5.7 6.8
EBITDA 209.1 176.5
Net debt-to-EBITDA ratio 1.80 0.37
19. Issued share capital
2015
£m
2014
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p (2014: 25p) each 66.0 66.0
Number of ordinary shares in issue
Beginning of year 264,129,170 240,469,409
Issue of shares during the year – 23,659,761
End of year 264,129,170 264,129,170
At 31 December 2015 the Company held 1,750,571 (2014: 3,449,685) of its own shares in treasury.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
123
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 19. Issued share capital continued
In 2014, to fund the acquisition of Clondalkin Essentra plc issued a total of 23,659,761 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price 
of 713.5p per share, raising gross proceeds of £168.8m. Issue costs of £1.2m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the 
nominal value of shares issued is recorded in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. 
As at 31 December 2014, the proceeds from the placing were used to repay the amounts drawn under the revolving credit facilities.
20. Reserves
Within retained earnings the Company has deducted the value of own shares purchased for an employee trust and treasury shares 
held by the Company with a total cost of £19.0m (2014: £34.7m). 
Employee trust shares are ordinary shares of the Company held in an employee benefit trust. The purpose of this trust is to hold shares in 
the Company for subsequent transfer to Executive Directors and employees relating to deferred share awards and options granted under 
the Company’s share-based incentive plans. Full details are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 62 to 78. The 
assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in these Financial Statements. At 31 December 2015 the trust held 
1,828,789 (2014: 3,379 ,383) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal value of £0.5m (2014: £0.8m) 
and market value of £15.1m (2014: £24.7m).
The Company holds 1,750,571 (2014: 3,449 ,685) ordinary shares with a nominal value of £0.4m (2014: £0.9m) in treasury. This represents 
0.7% (2014: 1.3%) of the number of ordinary shares in issue.
The other reserve relates to the Group reorganisation, which took place as part of the demerger from Bunzl plc. It represents the 
difference between Essentra plc’s share capital and Essentra International Limited’s share capital and share premium on 6 June 2005 
and is not distributable.
 
21. Analysis of net debt
1 Jan  
2015
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
31 Dec  
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 26.5 (2.0) (0.7) – 23.8
Short-term bank deposits and investments 19.5 (13.0) (0.1) – 6.4
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 46.0 (15.0) (0.8) – 30.2
Debt due within one year (5.8) 4.9 0.3 – (0.6)
Debt due after one year (102.3) (292.8) (7.7) (0.7) (403.5)
Net debt (62.1) (302.9) (8.2) (0.7) (373.9)
The non-cash movements represent the amortisation of prepaid facility fees. 
1 Jan  
2014
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
31 Dec 
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 42.0 (15.5) – – 26.5
Short-term bank deposits and investments 2.1 17.4 – – 19.5
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 44.1 1.9 – – 46.0
Debt due within one year (6.5) 3.8 0.1 (3.2) (5.8)
Debt due after one year (254.7) 158.1 (4.0) (1.7) (102.3)
Net debt (217.1) 163.8 (3.9) (4.9) (62.1)
The non-cash movements represent the amortisation of prepaid facility fees and the increase in net debt from loans acquired. 
The 2014 net debt amount presented above includes the effect of £1.9m prepaid facility fees on the Group’s 5-year revolving credit 
facility, which were presented within long-term receivables at 31 December 2014.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
124
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 22. Commitments 
Operating leases
At 31 December Essentra had the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Payable within one year 8.8 7.2
Payable between one and five years 25.7 19.2
Payable after five years 22.2 11.7
56.7 38.1
23. Acquisitions 
2015 acquisition: Clondalkin
On 30 January 2015, Essentra acquired the entire Specialist Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group (“Clondalkin SPD”) from an 
affiliate of Warburg Pincus. Clondalkin SPD is a global provider of speciality secondary packaging solutions for the pharmaceutical 
and health & personal care industries. With 24 facilities in North America and Europe, the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD significantly 
enhances Essentra’s existing geographic presence in healthcare packaging and, through leveraging the combined footprint of both 
businesses, will allow the Group to further exploit both existing, and attractive new growth opportunities. Clondalkin SPD’s product 
portfolio of folding carton, product literature and labels is complementary to the Group’s current packaging and authentication 
capabilities, therefore broadening the range and innovation offered to customers.
A summary of the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD is detailed below:
Fair value of assets 
acquired /(liabilities 
assumed)
£m
Customer relationships and order book 160.7
Goodwill 158.1
Property, plant and equipment 35.6
Inventories 20.8
Receivables 36.4
Cash and cash equivalents 7.2
Retirement benefit obligations (4.9)
Deferred tax (43.6)
Current Tax (0.5)
Payables (57.0)
Provisions (4.6)
Fair value of net assets acquired 308.2
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration paid 308.2
Cash consideration 308.2
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (7.2)
Net cash flow in respect of the acquisition 301.0
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, receivables and payables were all reassessed to their fair value. 
The gross contractual amount receivable of the receivables was £38.5m.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 23. Acquisitions continued
Goodwill represents the expected operating synergies and financial synergies, and the value of an assembled workforce. Goodwill 
is not deductible for tax purposes. The adjustment to deferred tax is the tax effect of recognising customer relationships and other 
intangible assets and the tax effect of the fair value adjustments. 
Clondalkin SPD contributed £228.5m to revenue and £27 .1m to operating profit before intangible amortisation in the period from 
acquisition to 31 December 2015. Had the acquisition been completed on 1 January 2015, the Group’s revenue and operating profit 
before amortisation and exceptional items would have been £1,118.8m and £171.7m respectively.
2015 acquisition: Specialty Plastics
The Group also acquired Specialty Plastics based in Australia in February 2015. This acquisition was not material.
Relevant previous acquisitions
During 2015, Essentra reassessed the fair value adjustments made in respect of the major operating subsidiaries of Abric Berhad 
(“Abric”) which was acquired on 16 December 2014, and made changes to certain accruals, property, plant and equipment, 
customer relationship intangible assets and deferred tax assets. The impact on goodwill is an increase of £0.9m.
24. Dividends
Per share Total
2015 
p
2014 
p
2015
£m
2014
£m
2014 interim: paid 30 October 2014 5.7 13.3
2014 final: paid 1 May 2015 12.6 32.6
2015 interim: paid 30 October 2015 6.3 16.4
2015 proposed final: payable 3 May 2016 14.4 37.5
20.7 18.3 53.9 45.9
25. Transactions with related parties
During 2014, the Filters business in Jordan was disposed of to the minority shareholder who was also a director of the business,  
for a consideration of US$50,000. A loss on disposal of £0.4m arose from the transaction. Other than this transaction and the 
compensation of key management (note 5), Essentra has not entered into any material transactions with related parties during  
2014 and 2015.
26. Parent company
Essentra plc is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates as 
the ultimate parent company of the Essentra Group. Its registered office is Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes 
MK9 1AU, United Kingdom. The principal subsidiary undertakings of Essentra plc are listed in note 10 to the Essentra plc Company 
Financial Statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 27 . Adjusted measures
Management reviews the adjusted operating profit and operating cash flow as measures of the performance of the business. 
Adjusted operating profit is stated before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items which are considered not relevant 
to measuring the performance of the business. Operating cash flow is adjusted operating profit before depreciation, share option 
expense and other non-cash items, less working capital movements and net capital expenditure as shown below:
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Operating profit 100.7 108.8
Intangible amortisation 31.7 17.5
Exceptional operating items 39.1 16.2
Adjusted operating profit 171.5 142.5
Depreciation 31.9 27.2
Share option expense 5.7 6.8
Other non-cash items (2.9) (11.0)
Working capital movements (52.8) (25.4)
Net capital expenditure (54.8) (33.1)
Operating cash inflow 98.6 107.0
28. Post balance sheet events
On 29 January 2016, the Group acquired Kamsri Printing and Packaging Private Limited (“Kamsri”), a manufacturer of premium 
packaging solutions based in India for the pharmaceutical and healthcare end-markets. This acquisition was not material.
29. Additional segmental analysis
With effect from 1 January 2016, Essentra has implemented a new organisation structure, comprising three strategic business units. 
Going forward, the Components, Pipe Protection Technologies, Extrusion and Security businesses will form a strategic business unit 
named Component Solutions. The Speciality Tapes business will be included within the current Health & Personal Care Packaging 
strategic business unit. The Filter Products and Porous Technologies businesses will form a new strategic business unit named Filtration 
Products. The scope of Central Services remains the same.
2015 results under the new organisational structure are shown below:
Component 
Solutions
£m
Health & 
Personal Care 
Packaging 
£m
Filtration 
Products
£m
Eliminations
£m
Central  
Services
£m
Total
£m
External revenue 285.2 419.3 393.6 – – 1,098.1
Intersegment revenue 1.0 3.3 0.8 (5.1) – –
Total revenue 286.2 422.6 394.4 (5.1) – 1,098.1
Operating profit / (loss) before intangible 
amortisation and exceptional operating items 58.1 57 .5 72.1 – (16.2) 171.5
Intangible amortisation (8.1) (21.2) (2.4) – – (31.7)
Exceptional operating items 1.8 (31.3) (11.5) – 1.9 (39.1)
Operating profit / (loss) 51.8 5.0 58.2 – (14.3) 100.7
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
127
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES At 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertaking 2,10 451.7 446.0
Current assets
Debtors 3 30.1 69.2
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (1.1) (1.0)
Net current assets 29.0 68.2
Non-current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 (108.3) (101.9)
Net assets 372.4 412.3
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 7 66.0 66.0
Merger relief reserve 7 298.1 298.1
Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1
Profit and loss account 8 8.2 48.1
Shareholders’ funds: equity interests 372.4 412.3
The Company Financial Statements on pages 128 to 137 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2016 and were signed 
on its behalf by:
Colin Day   Stefan Schellinger
Chief Executive   Group Finance Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
128
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET For the year ended 31 December 2015
Profit and loss account
Issued 
share 
capital
£m
Merger 
relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Own 
shares
£m
Total 
equity
£m
1 January 2015 66.0 298.1 0.1 82.8 (34.7) 412.3
Loss for the year (1.0) (1.0)
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (1.0) – (1.0)
Acquisition of employee benefit trust shares (1.0) (1.0)
Shares issued to satisfy employee share option exercises (16.7) 16.7 –
Share options exercised 5.4 5.4
Share-based payments 5.7 5.7
Dividends paid (49.0) (49.0)
31 December 2015 66.0 298.1 0.1 27.2 (19.0) 372.4
Profit and loss account
Issued 
share 
capital
£m
Merger 
relief 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Own 
shares
£m
Total 
equity
£m
1 January 2014 60.1 136.4 0.1 120.4 (30.4) 286.6
Loss for the year (2.6) (2.6)
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (2.6) – (2.6)
Issue of shares 5.9 161.7 167.6
Acquisition of employee benefit trust shares (12.3) (12.3)
Shares issued to satisfy employee share option exercises (8.0) 8.0 –
Share options exercised 4.3 4.3
Share-based payments 6.8 6.8
Dividends paid (38.1) (38.1)
31 December 2014 66.0 298.1 0.1 82.8 (34.7) 412.3
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
129
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
ESSENTRA PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY A. Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with FRS 101
The Parent Company Financial Statements of Essentra plc (“the Company”) for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised  
for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2016 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by Colin Day and 
Stefan Schellinger. Essentra plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England  
and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of  
any single shareholder. These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced  
Disclosure Framework (FRS 101).
The profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
B. Basis of preparation
The Company transitioned to FRS 101 from the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice during the year ended 31 December 2015. 
No adjustments were required as part of this transition.
In these Financial Statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
 > the requirements of paragraph 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment;
 > the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(b), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j) to B64(m), b64(n)(ii), B64(o)(ii), B64(p), B64(q)(ii),  
B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations;
 > the requirement of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures;
 > the requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement;
 > the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in  
respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1, paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and paragraph 118(e)  
of IAS 38 Intangible Assets;
 > the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1  
Presentation of Financial Statements;
 > the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows;
 > the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors;
 > the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures;
 > the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more 
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; and
 > the requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated Financial Statements.
The following principal accounting policies have been consistently applied.
C. Investment in subsidiary undertaking
Investment in subsidiary undertaking is held at cost less any provision for impairment. The Company assesses at each balance sheet 
date whether the investment in its subsidiary has been impaired.
D. Share-based payments
The fair value of share options is measured at grant date. It is recognised as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary 
in which the relevant employees work over the expected period between grant and vesting date of the options, with a corresponding 
adjustment to reserves. Detailed disclosures for the share-based payment arrangements of the Company are provided in note 17 to 
the consolidated Financial Statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
130
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES
ACCOUNTING POLICIES E. Own shares
The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share incentive plans are 
treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings. The cost of shares held directly (treasury shares) 
is also deducted from retained earnings.
F . Dividends
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the 
shareholders of the Company (final dividend) or paid (interim dividend).
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
G. Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. Exchange differences arising from 
movements in spot rates are included in the profit and loss account as exchange gains or losses, while those arising from the interest 
differential elements of forward currency contracts are included in external interest income or expense.
H. Financial assets
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than twelve months after the end of the 
reporting period which are classified as non-current assets. The Company’s loans and receivables comprise receivables in the 
balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. Interest income is recognised accordingly using the effective interest method.
I. Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) are initially recognised at fair value net of 
transaction costs incurred. They are subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between 
the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in profit or loss over the term 
of the borrowings.
The Company holds financial instruments which hedge the net investments in the foreign operations of its subsidiary undertakings. 
Gains and losses on these instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account of the Company.
J. Taxation
Income tax in the profit and loss account comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the profit and loss account 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements. The following temporary differences are not provided for: 
goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using 
the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet dates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit 
will be realised.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
131
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1. Net operating charges 
The auditor was paid £5,100 (2014: £5,000) for the statutory audit of the Company. Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for services 
other than the statutory audit of the Company are disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
The Directors’ remuneration, which was paid by Essentra International Limited, is disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee on pages 62 to 78.
2. Investments held as fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary 
undertaking
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 446.0 439.2
Additions 5.7 6.8
End of year 451.7 446.0
3. Debtors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings 29.2 68.5
Corporate taxes 0.9 0.7
30.1 69.2
4. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accruals and deferred income 1.1 1.0
5. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2015
£m
2014
£m
US Private Placement Loan Notes 108.3 101.9
6. Maturity of financial liabilities
Non bank loans
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Debt can be analysed as falling due:
Between one and five years 108.3 51.1
More than five years – 50.8
108.3 101.9
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES
NOTES 7 . Issued share capital
2015
£m
2014
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p (2014: 25p) each 66.0 66.0
Number of ordinary shares in issue
Beginning of year 264,129,170 240,469,409
Issue of shares during the year – 23,659,761
End of year 264,129,170 264,129,170
At 31 December 2015 the Company held 1,750,571 (2014: 3,449,685) of its own shares in treasury.
 
In 2014, Essentra plc issued a total of 23,659,761 new ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 713.5p per share, raising gross proceeds 
of £168.8m. Issue costs of £1.2m were incurred. The excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of shares issued is recorded 
in a merger relief reserve in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
8. Reserves 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately 
presented in these Financial Statements. The loss attributable to equity holders included in the accounts of the Company is £1.0m 
(2014: 2.6m).
Included in retained earnings are accumulated share-based payments of £35.0m (2014: £29.3m) which are credited directly to reserves 
and are not distributable. Full details of these share-based payments are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on 
pages 62 to 78 and also in note 17 to the consolidated Financial Statements. 
9. Dividends
Per share Total
2015
p
2014 
p
2015
£m
2014
£m
2014 interim: paid 30 October 2014 5.7 13.3
2014 final: paid 1 May 2015 12.6 32.6
2015 interim: paid 30 October 2015 6.3 16.4
2015 proposed final: payable 3 May 2016 14.4 37.5
20.7 18.3 53.9 45.9
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
133
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 10. Subsidiary undertakings 
Country of incorporation Principal activity
Essentra (Bangor) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra (Bristol) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra (Great Harwood) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra (Hull) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra (Kilmarnock) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra (Kimbolton) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra (Northampton) Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra Components Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra Filter Products Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra Finance Limited UK Treasury activities
Essentra Packaging & Security Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging Limited UK Manufacturing
Essentra Pension Trustees Limited UK Pension Trustee
Essentra Senior Pension Trustees Limited UK Pension Trustee
P. P. Payne Limited UK Property Company
Big Blue Properties LLC US Property Company
Essentra Cleanroom Products Inc. US Manufacturing
Essentra Components Inc. US Distribution
Essentra Components Japan Inc. US Distribution
Essentra Filter Products Inc. US Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging Inc. US Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging US Inc. US Manufacturing
Essentra Pipe Protection Technologies Inc. US Manufacturing
Essentra Plastics LLC US Manufacturing
Essentra Porous Technologies Corp. US Manufacturing
Essentra Pty Ltd Australia Manufacturing
Essentra Components GmbH Austria Distribution
Essentra Industria E Commercio LTDA Brazil Manufacturing
Essentra Limited Canada Distribution
Essentra Components (Xiamen) Co. Ltd China Manufacturing
Essentra Components International Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd China Distribution
Essentra Plastic Trading (Ningbo) Co. Ltd China Distribution
Essentra Porous Technologies (Ningbo) Co Ltd China Manufacturing
Essentra Trading (Ningbo) Co. Ltd China Distribution
Essentra Components sro Czech Republic Distribution
Essentra Components SAS France Distribution
Essentra Packaging S.a.r.l. France Manufacturing
Essentra Components GmbH Germany Distribution
Essentra Packaging GmbH Germany Manufacturing
Essentra Porous Technologies GmbH Germany Manufacturing
Essentra Components Kft Hungary Distribution
Essentra Filter Products Kft Hungary Manufacturing
Essentra (India) Private Limited India Manufacturing
ITC Essentra Limited India Manufacturing
PT Essentra Indonesia Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging Ireland Limited Ireland Manufacturing
Essentra Components srl Italy Distribution
Essentra Packaging srl Italy Distribution
Essentra Porous Technologies Co Ltd Japan Distribution
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 10. Subsidiary undertakings continued
Country of incorporation Principal activity
Essentra Porous Technologies Ltd Republic of Korea Distribution
Essentra Asia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Manufacturing
Essentra Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Distribution
Essentra Pipe Protection Technologies SA de CV Mexico Manufacturing
Essentra Pipe Protection Technologies Services S de r.l de CV Mexico Services
Servicios Filtrona, S DE R.L. DE C.V. Mexico Services
Essentra Components B.V. Netherlands Distribution
Essentra Extrusion B.V. Netherlands Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging B.V. Netherlands Distribution
Essentra Filter Products S.A. Paraguay Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging Spółka z o.o. Poland Manufacturing
Essentra Sp. z o.o. Poland Distribution
Essentra Packaging Puerto Rico Inc. Puerto Rico Manufacturing
Essentra Components SRL Romania Distribution
Essentra St Petersburg Limited Liability Company Russia Distribution
OOO Essentra Filter Products Russia Distribution
Essentra Components Pte. Limited Singapore Distribution
Essentra Filter Products Leasing Pte. Limited Singapore Leasing Company
Essentra Packaging Pte Limited Singapore Distribution
Essentra Pte. Limited Singapore Distribution
Essentra Components sro Slovakia Distribution
Essentra Components (Pty) Limited South Africa Distribution
Essentra Components S.L.U Spain Manufacturing
Essentra Packaging SA Spain Manufacturing
Components Scandinavia AB Sweden Distribution
Essentra Components AB Sweden Distribution
Essentra Components Sarl Switzerland Distribution
Essentra Eastern Limited Thailand Manufacturing
Essentra Limited Thailand Manufacturing
Mesan Kilit A.S. Turkey Manufacturing
Essentra FZE United Arab Emirates Manufacturing
Essentra International Gmbh Germany Holding Company 
ESNT (Cherry Orchard) Holdings Limited Ireland Holding Company
ESNT Holdings SpA Italy Holding Company
Blue NewCo 1 B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
Blue NewCo 2 B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
Blue NewCo 3 B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
Blue NewCo 4 B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
ESNT Holding B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
ESNT Holdings (Netherlands) B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
Essentra B.V. Netherlands Holding Company
Essentra Holdings (No.2) Cooperative WA Netherlands Holding Company
Essentra Holdings Cooperative WA Netherlands Holding Company
Essentra International B.V. / LLC Netherlands Holding Company
Boxes Prestige Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Holding Company
Essentra (MEA) Pte. Limited Singapore Holding Company
Clondalkin Pharma & Healthcare (Spain) S.A. Spain Holding Company
Pranakorn Holding Company Limited Thailand Holding Company
San Yai Holding Company Limited Thailand Holding Company
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
135
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 10. Subsidiary undertakings continued
Country of incorporation Principal activity
ESNT Group Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT Group Holdings Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT Filter Products Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT Holdings (No.1) Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT Holdings (No.2) Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT International Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT Packaging & Securing Solutions Limited UK Holding Company
Essentra Filter Products International Limited UK Holding Company
Essentra International Limited UK Holding Company
Essentra Overseas Limited UK Holding Company
ESNT (Porous) Holdings Inc. US Holding Company
ESNT Holdings Inc. US Holding Company
ESNT US Holdings Corp US Holding Company
Essentra Corporation US Holding Company
Essentra Holdings Corp. US Holding Company
US NewCo Inc. US Holding Company
Abric Commerce (China) Co. Ltd China Non-trading
Abric Shanghai Co. Ltd China Non-trading
Cigarette Components (HK) Limited Hong Kong Non-trading
Essentra (Hong Kong) Ltd Hong Kong Non-trading
Filtrona (China) Limited Hong Kong Non-trading
ESNT (Cherry Orchard) Limited Ireland Non-trading
ESNT (Clonshaugh) Limited Ireland Non-trading
ESNT (Cork) Limited Ireland Non-trading
ESNT (Glasnevin) Limited Ireland Non-trading
Essentra (Bangor) Limited Ireland Non-trading
Essentra Packaging Waterford Limited Ireland Non-trading
Swiftbrook Limited Ireland Non-trading
Venture Laminate Limited Ireland Non-trading
Wilkes-Cerdac Limited Ireland Non-trading
Essentra Filter Products Spa Italy Non-trading
Essentra Packaging Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg Non-trading
Abric Encode Sdn Bhd Malaysia Non-trading
Essentra Components SEA (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Non-trading
Fijnmechanica Surhuisterveen B.V. Netherlands Non-trading
Linde Vouwkartonnage B.V. Netherlands Non-trading
Richco Benelux B.V. Netherlands Non-trading
Skiffy B.V. Netherlands Non-trading
Abric Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore Non-trading
Essentra Filter Products Development Co. Pte. Limited Singapore Non-trading
Apex Filters Company Limited Thailand Non-trading
Chemical Resins (Thailand) Limited Thailand Non-trading
Filtrona Thailand Limited Thailand Non-trading
Abric (Europe) Limited UK Non-trading
Alexander Industrial Supplies (Essex) Limited UK Non-trading
Alliance Plastics Limited UK Non-trading
Cigarette Components Limited UK Non-trading
ESNT Components Limited UK Non-trading
ESNT Limited UK Non-trading
Essentra Services Limited UK Non-trading
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
136
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 10. Subsidiary undertakings continued
Country of incorporation Principal activity
Essentra Speciality Tapes Limited UK Non-trading
Filtrona Limited UK Non-trading
Filtrona Services Limited UK Non-trading
Filtrona UK Limited UK Non-trading
Morane Limited UK Non-trading
North West Plastics Limited UK Non-trading
Payne Security Limited UK Non-trading
Plastic Parts Centre Limited UK Non-trading
Securit Limited UK Non-trading
Securit World Limited UK Non-trading
Skiffy Limited UK Non-trading
Stera Tape Limited UK Non-trading
US Limited Liability Company US Non-trading
ESNT Components Inc. US Non-trading
Filtrona Venezolana C.A. Venezuela Non-trading
The companies named above are subsidiary undertakings of Essentra plc and are included in the consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Group. The investments in the companies above relate to ordinary shares or common stock. The principal country in which 
each company operates is the country of incorporation.
All entities above are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group except for ITC Essentra Limited (India), Essentra (MEA) Pte. Ltd  
(Singapore) and Essentra FZE (UAE), all of which are 50% owned by Group through holding of ordinary shares in these companies 
and accounted for as subsidiaries of the Group in the consolidated Financial Statements.
Essentra International Limited is the only direct subsidiary of Essentra plc. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified
We have audited the Financial Statements of Essentra plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 84 to 137 . In our opinion:
 > the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 > the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;
 > the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
 > the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit were as follows.
Identified Risk Our Response
Restructuring liabilities and other provisions (included within provisions of £10.8m and accruals  
and deferred income of £54.1m)
Refer to page 56 (Report of the Audit Committee) of the 2015 
Annual Report, page 95 (accounting policy) and pages 110 to 
111 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The Group produces a wide range of products and 
operates manufacturing facilities in a number of countries  
which results in them being subject to varying laws,  
regulation and customer expectation.
 
Many of the Group’s products are used by its customers in 
creating their end product; if quality issues arise the Group  
may need to make a provision for returns under warranty.  
The risk increases for new products or specifications or  
divisions which may be subject to health and safety regulation. 
Measuring these provisions is a significant judgement and is 
inherently subjective.
Additionally, the Group has recognised liabilities and provisions  
in respect of business restructuring plans and lease obligations 
that have been put in place during the period, including as a 
result of the acquisition of Clondalkin Group. As at the balance 
sheet date, the actual outcomes and total cost of implementing 
restructuring plans and lease exit costs is unknown. Therefore, 
the calculation of these provisions is a significant judgement  
and is inherently subjective.
Judgement is required to determine if the recognition criteria  
for a provision under IAS 37 has been met, including whether 
a formal plan for the restructuring is in existence and whether 
the company has raised a valid expectation in those affected 
that it will carry out the plan.
In respect of warranty provisions, our procedures included  
critically assessing the methodology used for calculating the 
provision. This included assessing its appropriateness based  
on the historical accuracy of the methodology and challenging  
the approach taken on significant customer complaints 
outstanding at year end. We considered changes in market 
conditions, such as new product launches, when determining 
whether the completeness of provisions is accurate. We  
discussed with divisional directors the existence of customer 
complaints or product recalls as at the date of audit and the 
impact of local regulations on warranty provisions. We have 
considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect  
of warranty provisions.
In respect of provisions for business restructuring plans and  
lease obligations, our procedures included holding discussions with 
divisional and Group directors about the rationale and calculation 
of these provisions and performing detailed procedures to agree 
estimates of expected costs provided for to supporting information 
and documentation provided by the Group. We performed an 
assessment of whether the criteria for recognising provisions in 
respect of these costs had been met at the balance sheet date, 
including obtaining evidence that there is a restructuring plan  
in place before the balance sheet date and this has been 
communicated to those affected. For lease provisions, we  
reviewed external valuation reports prepared for the Group to 
confirm calculations made by management are appropriate.
We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures regarding 
provisions and the movements during the year were appropriate, 
including amounts presented as exceptional costs in Note 2 of 
the Financial Statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
138
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY  Identified Risk Our Response
Acquisition accounting (included within intangible assets of £691.6m)
Refer to page 57 (Report of the Audit Committee) of the 2015 
Annual Report, page 92 (accounting policy) and pages 125 to 
126 (financial disclosures).
The risk – the Group has completed the significant acquisition  
of Clondalkin Group during the year. As a result, significant 
intangible assets and goodwill have been recognised on the 
balance sheet. The valuation of these assets are based on sales 
forecasts, discount rates and other key assumptions which are 
subject to significant judgement. The assets and liabilities 
acquired are recognised at their fair value on acquisition date.  
The fair value adjustments are also subject to key assumptions 
based on market data and valuation techniques including 
discounted cash flows.
In this area, our audit procedures included assessing the 
appropriateness of the value of goodwill and other intangible 
assets recognised based on the consideration transferred less  
the fair value of tangible assets acquired, as well as whether  
other intangibles are separately identifiable. We assessed the 
recognition of these assets based on expected future cash flows  
by reviewing the appropriateness of assumptions such as discount 
rates, growth and attrition rates. We challenged the assumptions 
used by management to determine the fair value adjustments 
made between acquisition date and balance sheet date with 
reference to external valuations and other supporting 
documentation where relevant.
We used our own valuation specialists to assist us in  
critically challenging the key valuation assumptions and 
methodologies. This included comparison against industry norms, 
and consideration of the reasonableness of assumptions underlying 
the fair value calculation, including comparing revenue growth 
rates used in the forecasts against local gross domestic product 
growth rates, and their useful economic lives together with 
considering what is represented by residual goodwill. 
We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures (see  
Note 8 of the Financial Statements) about the sensitivity  
of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes  
in key assumptions properly reflected the risks and whether 
disclosures made are adequate.
Taxation Liabilities of £26.8m
Refer to page 56 (Report of the Audit Committee) of the 2015 
Annual Report, page 93 (accounting policy) and page 102 
(financial disclosures).
The risk – Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors  
to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and 
exposures due to the Group operating in a number of different  
tax jurisdictions and the complexities of transfer pricing and  
other international tax legislation.
In this area our audit procedures included the use of our own 
international and local tax specialists to assess the group’s tax 
positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, 
and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine 
tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the 
application of the international and local legislation by the relevant 
authorities and courts. We have considered the adequacy of the 
Group’s disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at £7 .2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark  
of Group profit before taxation adjusted for exceptional items of £129.5 million which represents 5.6%.
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £0.35 million, in addition 
to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
139
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 51%
22%
27%
Audits for Group reporting purposes
Group net assets
Speciﬁed risk focussed audit procedures
Out of Scope
60%
3%
37%
Audits for Group reporting purposes
Group proﬁt before taxation
Speciﬁed risk focussed audit procedures
Out of Scope
51%
28%
21%
Audits for Group reporting purposes
Group revenue
Speciﬁed risk focussed audit procedures
Out of Scope
Audits for Group reporting purposes or specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors at the reporting 
components in the following countries:
Audits for Group reporting purposes Specified risk-focussed audit procedures
United Kingdom (8 sites) United States of America (8 sites)
Ireland (3 sites)
Singapore (2 sites)
Indonesia (1 site)
Poland (1 site)
Thailand (1 site)
Italy (2 sites)
Hungary (1 site)
Germany (2 sites)
India (1 site)
Dubai (1 site)
China (1 site)
Sweden (1 site)
We conducted reviews of financial information (including enquiry) at a further 19 non-significant components because these 
components were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present 
specific individual risks that needed to be addressed. 
These Group procedures covered:
The remaining 28% of Group revenue, 3% of Group profit before tax and 22% of Group net assets is represented by 85 components 
around the world. None of the 85 components represented more than 2.4% of total Group Revenue, 4.4% of Group profit before tax, 
or 2.6% of Group net assets. For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our 
assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these. 
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 
£0.1m to £2.7m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
140
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT The Group audit team visited four locations in the United Kingdom. Telephone meetings were also held with the component auditors 
at all locations and the Group audit team attended all component auditor’s clearance meetings at the year end. At these visits and 
meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group 
audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements  
are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
 > the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 48 to 54 in the 2015 Annual Report with respect 
to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures  
is consistent with the Financial Statements.
5. We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 > the Directors’ statement of viability on page 82, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that,  
the Directors’ assessment and expectations of the Group’s continuing operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2018; or 
 > the disclosures in Note (a) of the accounting policies on page 90 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going 
concern basis of accounting.
6. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial 
Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 > we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ Statement 
that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy; or
 > the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 > the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 > certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 > the Directors’ statement, set out on page 82 of the 2015 Annual Report, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 48 to 54 of the 2015 Annual Report, relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
141
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 83 of the 2015 Annual Report, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to Essentra plc’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a,  
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this  
report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stephen Wardell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
19 February 2016
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
142
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Secretary and Registered Office
Jon Green
Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 1AU
Company Number 05444653
www.essentraplc.com
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank
Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2 2DB
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY
Auditor
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5GL
Principal bankers
Bank Of America Merrill Lynch International Limited
2 King Edward Street, London EC1A 1HQ
 
Barclays Bank Plc
Ashton House, 497 Silbury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2LD
 
Citibank NA
Citigroup Centre, Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 6LB
 
DBS Bank Ltd
4th Floor, Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB
 
HSBC Bank Plc
Level 5, Metropolitan House, CBX3, 321 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK29 2GA
 
ING Bank
60 London Wall, London EC2M 5TQ
 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4RB
Registrar
If you have any questions about your shareholding, please contact, in the first instance:
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH
Telephone +44 (0)370 703 6394
Computershare also has an internet facility whereby shareholders in Essentra plc are able to access details of their shareholding.  
You can access this service at www.computershare.com.
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documentation through the post, the Company offers shareholders the option to receive by email, a 
notification that shareholder documents (including the Annual Reports, Notice of Shareholder Meetings, Proxy Forms etc.) are available for 
access on the Company’s website. If you wish to make such an election, you should register online at www.computershare.com. If you have 
already made such an election you need take no further action. Registration is entirely voluntary and you may request a hard copy of the 
shareholder documents or change your election at any time.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
143
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ADVISERS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
ADVISERS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION CREST
Share Settlement System
The Company entered the CREST system on listing and the ordinary shares are available for settlement in CREST. As the membership 
system is voluntary, shareholders not wishing to participate can continue to hold their own share certificates.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Central Milton Keynes, 
Buckinghamshire MK9 2HG on Wednesday 20 April 2016 at 12 noon.
Financial calendar 2016
Annual General Meeting 20 April 2016
Final Dividend 3 May 2016
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
144
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ADVISERS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
