 ANNUAL REPORT AND 
ACCOUNTS 2015
FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Creating and inspiring exciting careers that shape our digital future Strategic Report
2 About FDM
5 Highlights
7 Chairman’s Statement
9 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Business Model
15 Our Markets
17 Key Performance Indicators
18 Risk Management
25 Financial Review
29 Corporate Social Responsibility 
 
 
Governance
33 Board of Directors
35 Corporate Governance Report
45 Nomination Committee Report
47 Audit Committee Report
53 Remuneration Report
74 Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
79 Independent auditors’ report to the  
 members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc 
85 Consolidated Income Statement
86 Consolidated Statement of  
 Comprehensive Income
87 Consolidated Statement of  
 Financial Position
88 Consolidated Statement of  
 Cash Flows
89 Consolidated Statement of  
 Changes in Equity
90 Notes to the Consolidated  
 Financial Statements
117 Independent auditors’ report to the  
 members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc 
119 Parent Company Statement of  
 Financial Position
120 Parent Company Statement of  
 Cash Flows
121 Parent Company Statement of  
 Changes in Equity
122 Notes to the Parent Company  
 Financial Statements
127 Shareholder Information
Contents FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2
The Group
FDM Group (Holdings) plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Group” or “FDM”) is a global professional 
services provider with a focus on Information Technology (“IT”) and with over 160 clients in a variety of industries.
The Group’s principal business activities involve recruiting, training and placing its own permanent IT and business 
consultants (known as “Mounties”) at client sites. This is across a range of technical and business disciplines including 
Development, Testing, Support, Project Management Office (“PMO”), Data Services, Business Analysis, Business 
Intelligence and Cyber Security. The Group also supplies contractors to customers, either to supplement its own employed 
consultants’ skill sets or to provide greater experience where required.
The Group has training academies and sales operations in dedicated facilities located in London, Leeds, Glasgow, New 
York, Toronto, Frankfurt and Hong Kong. In addition, FDM has a sales office in Singapore and operates in mainland 
China, Ireland, France, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Austria and South Africa. FDM has established partnerships with key 
universities, enabling it to recruit high quality graduates to train as Mounties.
FDM is a strong advocate of diversity and inclusion in the workplace, with around 60 nationalities working together as a 
team. The Group encourages and supports the recruitment of women into the IT industry, promoting their advancement 
through the “FDM Women in IT” initiative. The Group also actively recruits ex-Forces personnel in both the UK and the 
USA, as well as having a “Returners to Work” programme in Hong Kong, aiding those workers who are ready to re-enter 
the workplace after a career break.
Strategy
FDM’s strategy is to deliver customer led, sustainable profitable growth on a consistent basis. This strategy requires that 
all activities and investments produce the appropriate level of profit and cash returns, deliver sustained and measurable 
improvements for all stakeholders including customers, staff and shareholders and further FDM’s objective of launching 
the careers of talented people worldwide.
The Group’s strategy is to increase the number of Mounties on site delivering IT and business services to its customers 
through: 
• Establishing new training academies and investing in operational capacity and new service areas;
• Increasing the number of Mounties on site across our existing customer base and growing the number of new customers;
• Expanding its geographic presence across the territories in which we operate; and
• Being agile and responsive to shifting technology trends and customer demands.
About FDM
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
3
Strategic Report About FDM
FDM’s vision and values
FDM’s vision is to be recognised as the leading provider of innovative and specialised IT and business services making it 
the preferred choice in the market place whilst creating and inspiring exciting careers that shape our digital future. This 
is driven through the following values:
Forward-looking statements 
This Annual Report contains statements which constitute “forward-looking statements”. Although the Group believes 
that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these 
expectations will prove to be correct. Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ 
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
AMBITION 
COLLABORATION 
ENERGY 
INCLUSIVITY 
PROFESSIONALISM 
GROWTH
We set ourselves challenging goals and are determined to achieve them 
We work best when we work together
We thrive on activity and getting things done
We work to high standards 
We embrace and bring together the best people with diverse backgrounds and experiences 
We like to be challenged and have a willingness to learn, innovate and improve FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4
“Our values are part of 
our DNA. They define 
the way we work with 
each other and with 
our clients, academic 
partners and key 
stakeholders.”
Rod Flavell
Chief Executive Officer FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5
Highlights
1 The adjusted Group operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted cash flow generated from operations and adjusted cash conversion are 
calculated before exceptional items and performance share plan expenses (including social security costs). The adjusted basic earnings per share is 
calculated before the impact of exceptional items and performance share plan expenses (including social security costs and associated deferred tax).
2 The dividend in 2015 is in respect of the full year ended 31 December 2015 and represents an interim dividend of 8.0 pence per share and a proposed 
final dividend of 8.5 pence per share, in addition to a proposed special dividend of 5.0 pence per share. The dividend declared in 2014 is in respect of the 
period from admission to the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 2014. 
3 Week 52 in 2015 commenced on 21 December 2015 (2014: week 52 co mmenced on 22 December 2014).
Operational highlights
• Mounties assigned to client sites at the commencement 
of week 52 were up 31% at 2,022 (2014: 1,539)
3
• Total headcount assigned to client sites at week 52 was 
up 26% at 2,329 (2014: 1,845)
3
• Mountie utilisation rate for the year to 31 December 
2015 was 97.8% (2014: 98.4%)
• Further successful geographic expansion into new 
territories and strong growth in Mounties on client sites 
across all regions
• 65 new clients in 2015
• Continued investment in training academies in each of 
our geographic locations such that by 31 March 2016 
we will have increased global training capacity by 33% 
over March 2015
• Final dividend of 8.5 pence per share giving a total 
ordinary dividend for the year of 16.5 pence, in addition 
to a special dividend of 5.0 pence per share
FDM has delivered on its key financial and operational objectives.
 
Financial highlights
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
% change
Revenue £160.7m £123.3m 30.3%
Mountie revenue £119.4m £88.9m 34.3%
Adjusted
1
 Group operating profit £30.2m £24.9m 21.3%
Group profit before tax £29.4m £19.0m 54.7%
Adjusted
1
 Group profit before tax £30.1m £24.4m 23.4%
Basic earnings per share 20.5p 12.7p 61.4%
Adjusted
1
 basic earnings per share 21.0p 17.5p 20.0%
Net cash position at year end £22.4m £12.3m 82.1%
Cash flow generated from operations £36.5m £19.3m 89.1%
Adjusted
1
 cash flow generated from operations £36.5m £24.6m 48.4%
Adjusted
1
 cash conversion 121.3% 101.1% 20.0%
Ordinary dividend per share
2
16.5p 7.5p 120.0%
Special dividend per share
2
5.0p – n/a
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6
Industry awards received during the year included:
• The JobCrowd – Top 100 Companies For Graduates To Work For 2015/16 (also won in 2014/15)
• The JobCrowd – Top IT Services and Consulting Companies For Graduates To Work For 2015/16
• Shares Awards – Best Main Market Company Achievement 2015
• European CEO Awards – Best CEO in the IT Industry 2015
• CEO Insight Awards – Best IT Services Employer 2015
• Information Age Women in IT Awards – Editor’s Choice 2015
• Computer Weekly – Top 50 Most Influential Women in UK IT 2015
• USA Military Times – Best for Vets Employer 2015 (also won in 2014)
• USA CivilianJobs.com – Most Valuable Employer for Military 2015 (also won in 2014)
Highlights FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7
“The ongoing investment in our people and infrastructure continues to deliver 
significant growth in Mounties deployed, Mountie revenue, profitability, cash 
generation and shareholder returns.”
 
 
Performance
I am delighted to report another year of strong performance by the Group. We delivered a 31% growth in Mountie 
headcount in 2015 achieving a record 2,022 Mounties placed with clients by week 52 2015 (week 52 2014: 1,539). Global 
revenues increased by 30% to £160.7 million (2014: £123.3 million) with growth in revenues and operating profits being 
delivered by each of our operating regions. 
During 2015 we secured 65 new clients across multiple sectors and now have a presence in finance, media, insurance, 
energy, aviation, government and not-for-profit sectors. We have expanded the regions in which we operate, placing 
Mounties for the first time in Austria and expanding into six new states in the USA. We have strengthened our partnerships 
with many universities, clients and military associations which enable us to continue creating and inspiring exciting careers 
that shape our digital future.
Strategic investment
At the core of our strategy is investment in our people and in our infrastructure. A key feature of 2015 has been the 
accelerated investment in our training academies; a combination of new facilities in new locations or larger facilities 
in existing locations. In June 2015 we opened an academy in Leeds, followed by openings in Glasgow and Hong Kong 
immediately after the year end, with a new and significantly enlarged facility opening in Toronto in April 2016. We are 
currently sourcing a new satellite centre in the USA which will enable us to accommodate the growing demand from our 
existing customers in states outside of the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. We will continue to 
open and hire temporary training facilities to accommodate our client needs where required. The training offered through 
our academy facilities is continuously enhanced, refined and expanded in order to suit new and existing customers, 
territories and markets. 
In 2015 we introduced a performance share plan that has enabled us to widen the factors motivating and rewarding our 
staff for their contribution to the success of the Group. We have also made some key personnel appointments in the year 
to ensure we are well placed to continue to deliver growth, excellent services to all of our customers and outstanding 
careers to our Mounties.
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome Michelle Senecal de Fonseca and David Lister to the Board, Michelle joined the Board on  
15 January 2016 and David’s appointment will commence on 9 March 2016. Their significant experience and capabilities 
further strengthen the Board. 
I would like to thank Jonathan Brooks, who stepped down during the year, for his contribution to the Group during his 
tenure.
Chairman’s Statement
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8
Dividends
I am pleased to report that the Directors are proposing a final dividend of 8.5 pence per share, which together with the 
interim dividend gives a total ordinary dividend per share for the year of 16.5 pence. I am also pleased to report that 
the Board is proposing a special dividend of 5.0 pence per share. It is our intention to continue to deliver increasing 
shareholder returns in part through our progressive dividend policy.
 
Current trading and outlook
2016, our 25th trading year, has started well for the Group and I am confident that we are well placed to deliver another 
year of good progress.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication over the past year whose commitment and 
energy continue to drive the Group forward. 
Ivan Martin 
Chairman 
 
8 March 2016
Chairman’s Statement FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
9
Chief Executive’s Review
“I am exceptionally proud of what FDM has achieved in 2015. The Group, across 
all its regions, delivered a strong financial performance, materially grew the 
number of Mounties on site and accelerated our UK and international Academy 
expansion programme. Notwithstanding significant investments made in the year 
in people and facilities to underpin our future growth, we finished 2015 with net 
cash balances of £22.4 million. Reflecting the Group’s strong cash position and the 
Board’s confidence in the business, the Board is also proposing a special dividend 
of 5.0 pence per share, equivalent to £5.4 million.”
 
 
 
Our strategy
Our strategy, which is to deliver customer led, sustainable profitable growth on a consistent basis, is enabled by:
• Attracting, training and developing high-calibre consultants globally (“Mounties”);
• Investing in operational capacity through the development of state-of-the-art training facilities (“Academies”);
• Providing excellent client service to attract new clients and to retain and expand contracts with existing clients 
(“Clients”); and
• Developing new service capabilities in current markets and in new markets which offer attractive growth 
opportunities (“New markets and services”).
We have made good progress against our strategic objectives in 2015 as set out below:
Strategic Report
Mounties Academies
• FDM is now amongst the UK’s largest graduate 
employers.
• FDM’s reputation amongst leading universities is 
growing with excellent feedback.
• A 31% increase in the number of Mounties placed in all 
territories, reaching a record 2,022 at week 52 in 2015.
• Ex-Forces Programme performing strongly with over 
130 personnel placed at client sites across all territories. 
• Numerous employer awards won by FDM as detailed in 
the Highlights section on page 6. 
• Improved funding initiatives during training for 
Mounties.
• Four new Academies opened in 2015 or early 2016: 
- Leeds, a new location for FDM, replacing its existing 
Manchester facility;
- Glasgow, enlarged premises in existing location; 
- Hong Kong, enlarged premises in existing location 
with the addition of a training Academy; and 
- Toronto, a new and significantly enlarged facility in 
existing location.
• 1,240 individuals trained through FDM’s Academies in the 
year, an increase of 32% compared with 2014.
Clients New markets and services
• 65 new clients across all territories.
• Increased presence and diversification in the key sectors 
in which FDM operates.
• Three new service offerings successfully launched: 
Business Analysis; Business Intelligence; and Cyber 
Security.
• Recruitment of new Group Chief Information Officer 
to drive the expansion of the Group’s existing range of 
technical and business disciplines.
• Six new US states entered into, including Virginia and 
California. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10
Our markets
An overview of the financial performance of and developments in each of the markets in which we operate is set out 
on pages 15 and 16. Whilst significant growth and progress was made across all markets, North America in particular 
had an outstanding year. We gained 16 new clients across the region, with one of FDM’s new clients in 2015 already 
our largest client in North America, a remarkable achievement in such a short period of time. What we have achieved 
with this client demonstrates the quality and flexibility of the FDM model and the lengths FDM will go to in order to 
meet its customers’ needs. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Delivery
In partnership with the US client team lead, FDM designed an intensive and tailored programme to 
train Mounties in relevant technologies and methodologies. FDM set up a remote “pop-up” training 
centre in Virginia, enabling local talent to be sourced and trained by experienced FDM trainers near 
the US client’s main operation.
To facilitate the knowledge transition and to reduce the on boarding phase, a Senior FDM consultant 
and FDM Business Development Manager were embedded into the US client’s team. Through a 
combination of shadowing current activity, work environment analysis, and hands-on activity, a full 
picture of the US client’s requirements was captured and incorporated into FDM’s training programme.
Outcome
FDM successfully placed an initial 30 Mounties, followed by an additional 45 by week 52 2015. The total 
Mounties on site has since grown to 80 by February 2016. The feedback received from the client has 
been excellent, with further requests for consultants in the first quarter of 2016.
Engagement
In early 2015 FDM was engaged by a US client to provide a pool of trained, readily available, local 
resource to facilitate a planned systems transformation. 
Case study FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11
Our people
Our Mounties and staff are the face of FDM; it is their quality and delivery which enables us to grow our business with 
existing customers and to win new customers. During 2015, we trained 1,240 Mounties, an increase of 32%. This was only 
possible because of the strength of our management, recruitment, sales and training teams. We continue to seek ways to 
ensure we are able to retain and develop our best people and to this end introduced a new share award scheme in the 
year, the details of which are explained in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have also improved our 
funding initiatives for Mounties in training to ensure we continue to attract the best resource available.
We championed a number of people initiatives in the year; FDM currently employs over 130 ex-Forces personnel in the 
UK and USA and FDM USA was recognised as a Most Valuable Employer for Military USA (by CivilianJobs.com) and a Best 
for Vets Employer (by USA Military Times) for the second year running. The Group continues to support the advancement 
of women into the IT industry through the “FDM Women in IT” initiative. 26% of the Group’s workforce is now female. We 
also established in the year, the “Returners to work” initiative in Hong Kong, which helps individuals re-train, upskill, and 
return to the work place after a career break.
Looking forward
We have made a strong start to 2016 and I believe the Group is well placed to continue to deliver growth.
 
 
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
8 March 2016
Strategic Report Chief Executive’s Review FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12
We train
We recruit
We deploy
Successful partnerships with key universities and ex-Forces partners
A graduate programme offering quality training, commercial experience and opportunity for 
 fast-track career progression to attract the best candidates
A model designed to create sustainable growth
Strategically located training Academies with highly skilled trainers
Intensive three month training programme combining technical education with  
industry-standard certifications and professional training
Advancement and career progression enabled
Highly skilled resource which is fully operational at client sites from day one 
FDM is a global organisation whose Mountie model benefits clients with a global presence
Mounties are able to transition permanently to clients once their two year bond period is complete, offering 
the opportunity for continuity and minimum disruption to clients when needed
Business Model Army
Navy
RAF
FDM Learning Pathways FDM Centres Careers Programme
1 2 3 4
Key University Partners Ex-Forces
Foundation Modules
Client
Interviews
Project Support
Software Testing
Professional
Skills
SQL Excel VBA
Quality
Gate
Business Testing
Cyber Security
Data & Compliance
Ex-Forces
Advanced Route
Production Support
Business Analysis
MX.3 Production Support
Java Development
Business Intelligence
.NET Development
London
Leeds
Glasgow
Graduates
Ex-Forces
(Traditional and
Advanced Routes)
Aston University
Brunel University
City University London
Coventry University
Glasgow Caledonian University
King’s College London
Kingston University
Lancaster University
Leeds Beckett University
Loughborough University
Manchester Metropolitan University 
National University of Ireland, Galway
Queen Mary University of London
University of Strathclyde
University College Dublin
University College London
University of Edinburgh
University of Glasgow
University of Greenwich
University of Hertfordshire
University of Kent
University of Leeds
University of Leicester
University of Manchester
University of Newcastle
University of Nottingham
University of Sheffield
FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13
The above illustration represents the FDM model as applied to its UK business.
Strategic Report Glasgow Centre
Ex-Forces Trainees
Graduate Trainees
Leeds Centre
Project Support Course
Software Testing Course
London Centre
Production Support Course
MX.3 Production Support Course
.NET Development Course Business Testing Course
Ex-Forces Advanced Route
Cyber Security Course
Data & Compliance Course
Java Development Course
Quality Gate (Confirmation of Learning Pathway)
Business Intelligence
Key Strategic University/Ex-Forces Partners
Qualifications
Consultant Post-Interview Feedback and Review
Business Analysis Course
ME+
Consultant Support
Consultant Peer Support
Account Management
Research and 
Development
Mentoring
Technical Support
5
6
Key
Pathway Development Through to Placement
Client 
Industries
On Site 
Support
UNIX Web Apps Design
Introduction to BI & Data 
Warehousing Concepts
Data Interrogation 
(SSAS & SSRS)
Data 
Visualisation ETL
ITIL
ISTQB-ISEB Manual Testing
Core Testing
Modules
Core Business
Analysis Modules
BA Foundation  
Certificate
FIA
Core Production
Support Modules
Cyber Security
Support Modules
Core MX.3 Production
Support Modules
Sign Off
Interviews
Feedback Review
!
Placement
Core Project
Support Modules PRINCE2
Data & Compliance 
Modules
Design &
Methodologies
Core Java Modules
Core .NET Modules
Aerospace
Banking and Finance
Betting
Biotechnology
Broadcast and Media
Consulting
Energy
FMCG
Government
Healthcare
Information Services
Insurance
Logistics and Distribution
Manufacturing
Media
Motor Industry
Oil and Gas
Professional Services
Publishing
Real Estate
Retail
Software Houses
Systems Integration
Technology
Telecommunications
Transport
Travel and Tourism
Utilities
And more...
FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
14
Business Model FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
15
Highlights
UK and Ireland
The UK and Ireland delivered another strong performance 
in the year. Total revenue was up by 22% to £110.0 million 
(2014: £90.3 million) and adjusted operating profit
1
 increased 
by 8% to £23.0 million (2014: £21.2 million). The number of 
Mounties placed at client sites reached 1,264 at week 52 
(2014: 1,018).
Demand from both existing and new customers in the year 
was high, with the UK and Ireland securing 41 new customers 
in the year. As with the rest of the Group, the UK and Ireland 
continues to diversify the sectors in which it operates, most 
notably increasing its presence in the government and not-
for-profit sectors during the year.
New service offerings continue to be a key strategic focus for the Group. As the hub of the Group, the UK continues to 
act as the test bed for new service areas, of which there were three in the year, Business Analysis, Business Intelligence 
and Cyber Security. The appointment of Jonathan Young in the UK as Group Chief Information Officer will facilitate the 
expansion of the Group’s existing range of technical and business disciplines.
In June 2015 we relocated from Manchester to our new state-of-the-art Academy and sales office in Leeds. The Leeds 
Academy provides capacity for FDM to recruit and train additional graduates and ex-Forces personnel and an opportunity 
for FDM to work more closely with our university partners in the area, whilst creating new partnerships and developing 
existing relationships with customers in the region. Shortly after the year end, we opened our new Glasgow office and 
are confident it will also provide additional training, recruitment and collaboration opportunities for the Scottish regions.
Our Markets
1
 The adjusted operating profit is calculated before; exceptional items and performance share plan expenses (including social security costs). 
Strategic Report
North America 2015 2014
Revenue £36.2m £22.1m
Adjusted operating 
profit
1
 
£6.0m £3.1m
Mountie numbers 520 341
APAC 2015 2014
Revenue £3.8m £1.9m
Adjusted operating 
profit
1
£0.3m £0.1m
Mountie numbers 105 63
UK and Ireland 2015 2014
Revenue £110.0m £90.3m
Adjusted operating 
profit
1
£23.0m £21.2m
Mountie numbers 1,264 1,018
EMEA 2015 2014
Revenue £10.7m £8.9m
Adjusted operating 
profit
1
£0.9m £0.5m
Mountie numbers 133 117 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
16
North America
Our North American operations have delivered an exceptional 
performance in 2015. Total revenue grew to £36.2 million (2014: 
£22.1 million), an increase of 64% and adjusted operating profit
1
 
increased to £6.0 million (2014: £3.1 million), an increase of 94%. 
Mounties placed on site during the year exceeded 500 for the 
first time, totalling 520 at year end compared to 341 in 2014.
FDM gained 16 new customers in 2015, including a number 
of high profile household names, one of which has already 
become our largest client in North America. We placed Mounties 
in six new states, including Virginia and Maryland, and FDM now 
provides services to the five largest banks in Canada.
In order to facilitate the increase in demand, the Group has accelerated its investment programme in the USA. Enlarged 
premises in Toronto are due to open in April 2016 and the North American management team was strengthened in 
the year with a number of key hires to support its ongoing growth, including a new head of military and a new head of 
training. A location for a further small scale training academy in the USA is currently being explored.
EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding UK and Ireland) 
As reported previously, the EMEA market has been made 
more complex by the differing interpretations by clients of 
the evolving labour leasing legislation in Germany. Despite 
this, EMEA revenues increased by 20% to £10.7 million (2014: 
£8.9 million) and adjusted operating profit
1
 increased to 
£0.9 million (2014: £0.5 million). The number of Mounties 
placed at client sites at week 52 was 133, compared with 117 
at week 52 2014. The current focus of the EMEA business 
is to continue to grow the Mountie model in Germany and 
Switzerland, whilst Mounties were placed for the first time in 
the year in Austria. A new head of sales for the EMEA region 
was appointed during the second half of the year to help 
drive this growth.
 
APAC (Asia Pacific)
An improved performance in the APAC region saw revenues 
double to £3.8 million (2014: £1.9 million), with adjusted 
operating profit
1
 growing to £0.3 million (2014: £0.1 million). 
APAC Mounties placed on site at the beginning of week 52 
were 105, up from 63 in 2014. 
The APAC business continues to be based in Hong Kong and 
the new Academy and sales office opened in early 2016 to 
accommodate continuing growth. For the first time, training 
of local talent will take place in our own premises in the 
region. The Hong Kong base continues to support operations 
in China. The Singapore sales office provides training from 
temporary facilities when required.
Our Markets
1
 The adjusted operating profit is calculated before; exceptional items and performance share plan expenses (including social security costs).  FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17
Key Performance Indicators 
We focus on a number of Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) to identify trends in 
the trading performance of the Group. The Group aims to increase profitability 
whilst maintaining a healthy balance sheet and investing in the operations 
and geographies which underpin the organic growth of the Group. The Group 
continues to deliver strong margins and converts profits into operating cash for 
investment to provide a return to shareholders. The KPI targets, used as a basis 
for remuneration awards, are included in the Remuneration Report.
The adjusted numbers in the KPI analysis remove the impact of exceptional 
costs and costs associated with the performance share plan, to provide a clear 
understanding of the underlying trading performance.
Adjusted earnings per share
1
 (pence) 
We have delivered earnings growth in line 
with our targets
Adjusted cash generated from 
operations
1
 (£m) 
The Group closed the year with cash 
balances of £22.4 million (2014: £12.3 
million)
Adjusted cash conversion
1
 (%) 
The conversion of profits into cash 
remains good
Strategic Report
83 +100 79 +100
24.9 24.4
2014 2014 2015 2015
30.2 30.1
+21% +23%
Mountie revenue (£m) 
Increased Mounties on site throughout the 
year has driven revenue growth
71 +100
88.9
2014 2015
119.4
71 + 100 123.3
2014 2015
160.7
+30%
Total revenue (£m) 
Strong organic growth driven by the Mountie 
model
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m) 
The Group delivered operating profit growth 
whilst investing in its operational capacity
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 (£m) 
Profit before tax increased from strong 
trading and lower net finance costs
76 +100
Mounties on client sites (start week 52) 
Increase in Mounties on site across all 
segments and key service areas 
1,539
2014 2015
2,022
+31%
100 +98
Mountie utilisation rate (%) 
Mountie utilisation rates decreased 
marginally during the year but remained 
within expected tolerances
98.4
2014 2015
97.8
-1%
82 +100
63 +100 80 +100
17.5
24.6
101.1
2014
2014 2014
2015
2015 2015
21.0
36.5 121.3
+20%
+48% +20%
Training completions
2
 
The number of Mounties completing 
training increased by 32% 
74 +100
938
2014 2015
1,240
+32%
1
 The adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted cash generated from operations and adjusted 
cash conversion are calculated before exceptional items and performance share plan expenses (including 
social security costs). The adjusted earnings per share is calculated before the impact of exceptional items and 
performance share plan expenses (including social security costs and associated deferred tax).
2
 Training completions, which drives growth in Mountie numbers, is included for the first time as a non-financial KPI.
+34% Impact Low
Unlikely
Likely
Likelihood
High
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 10
FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18
We believe that effective risk management is critical to the delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Approach to risk
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed across the Group and does not delegate any 
significant elements of the risk management process. The Board deals directly with the approach to risk management and 
the procedures for the identification, assessment, management, mitigation and reporting of risks.
Identifying and monitoring key risks
The principal tool used by the Board to monitor and report risk is the risk register. The preparation of the register is led by the 
Chief Financial Officer, supported by the senior management team and details the Group’s risks, the impact of each risk, the 
likelihood of that risk occurring and the strength of the mitigating controls in place and how these are evidenced. The updated 
risk register was last reviewed, debated and agreed by the Board in December 2015 and was reviewed twice in 2015. 
The current risk register included 24 risks categorised between strategic, operational, compliance and financial risks, of 
which 10 are considered to be the Group’s principal risks.
Changes to the risks reported in 2014
The risks reported here are broadly the same as those reported last year with the exception of the following:
• The risk of a disruptive cyber-attack has been elevated to being one of the Group’s principal risks. The increasing 
frequency with which corporations are being targeted has resulted in this being a key area of focus for the Board. 
During the year a Group Chief Information Officer whose responsibilities include, amongst other things, IT security was 
appointed by the Board.
• The risk relating to “balancing supply and demand” has been subdivided into two separate risks – one being the risk of not 
having sufficient Mountie resource to accommodate a rapid increase in demand and the other being unable to utilise or 
place Mounties should a sudden decrease in demand occur.
• The risk relating to the Group’s ability to 
effectively upscale has also been subdivided 
into two separate risks – one relating to 
the ability to secure the necessary physical 
infrastructure as the business expands and 
a further risk of potentially being unable to 
secure the necessary skilled personnel as the 
business expands. 
• Due to the strength of controls in place, risks 
relating to exercising oversight over the UK and 
overseas businesses and managing growing 
cash balances are no longer considered by the 
Board to be key risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by 
the Group in 2015, together with the potential 
effects, controls and mitigating factors and the 
rationale for perceived increases and decreases 
in the risks compared to 2014, are set out on 
pages 20 to 22.
Risk Management
Principal risks FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
19
Appointment of Group 
Chief Information 
Officer in the year FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20
Strategic risks
Risk and impact Mitigation Movement in the year
 
1. Economic environment 
A downturn in the UK and/ or global 
economies could curtail demand 
significantly and the ability of the Group 
to deploy its Mountie resource, adversely 
impacting on revenue, gross margin and 
overall profitability.
 
 
External factors such as macro-economic risks 
are outside of the Group’s control. The Group 
is primarily invested in the UK and the US, thus 
minimising its exposure to weaker economies.
Notwithstanding the impact of risk 2 below, the 
Group is focused on diversifying its customer base 
both by sector and by geography.
 
 
No change 
With some instability occurring in 
global markets since the beginning 
of 2016, the Board is of the view 
that this risk remains unchanged.
 
2. Concentration exposure in the 
financial services sector 
The majority of the Group’s revenue is 
generated from the financial services 
sector. A crisis in the financial services 
sector could reduce revenue significantly 
and have a negative impact on the 
majority of the Group’s KPIs.
 
 
 
As above, the Group is focused on diversifying its 
customer base both by sector and by geography.
The Group is continuing to increase its service 
offerings with three new revenue streams, 
Business Analysis, Business Intelligence and Cyber 
Security, introduced in the year.
 
 
Increased 
 
As the proportion of the Group’s 
revenue which is generated 
from the financial services sector 
continues to increase, this is 
perceived by the Board to be a 
higher risk than in 2014.
 
3. Balancing supply and demand (i) 
An inability to meet a rapid increase in 
demand due to insufficient Mountie 
resource and an inability to recruit in 
a timely manner would result in lost 
revenue, eroded customer confidence 
and an adverse reputational impact.
 
 
The recruitment team maintains strong links to 
universities and other recruitment channels.
Resource management meetings occur weekly to 
ensure supply and demand issues are identified 
and resolved.
The management team is incentivised to 
maximise utilisation and increase flow through of 
graduates within the Academies.
The ex-military personnel and women returners 
to work, whilst relatively small in terms of overall 
Group headcount, are growing and will help 
spread the Group’s access to a wider talent pool.
 
 
Reduced 
There has been a continued 
focus by management during the 
year to ensure the most efficient 
utilisation and deployment of 
Mounties.
Specific initiatives undertaken 
in the year should result in the 
Group being better able to balance 
supply and demand. These 
include attracting Mounties via 
additional funding initiatives whilst 
in training. New and/ or enlarged 
offices in different locations will 
give the Group greater ability to 
meet higher demand.
 
4. Balancing supply and demand (ii) 
An inability to utilise or redeploy Mounties 
in the event of a sudden decrease in 
demand would result in a reduction in 
margin and would demotivate Mounties.
 
 
As above, resource management meetings occur 
weekly to ensure supply and demand issues are 
identified and resolved in a timely manner.
 
 
Reduced 
The growth and diversification in 
the Group’s client base by both 
number of clients and geographical 
spread has reduced the risk of the 
Group not being able to fully utilise 
its Mountie resource.
Strategic Report Risk Management FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21
Operational risks
Risk and impact Mitigation Movement in the year
 
5. Recruitment and development of 
highly skilled Mounties  
Mounties are the Group’s core asset. A 
failure to deliver high quality Mounties 
into its customer base could result in a 
loss of customers and damage to the 
Group’s reputation.
 
 
 
The Group continually reviews and benchmarks 
the remuneration packages and incentives it 
offers to attract graduates.
Strong relationships exist with universities and 
other recruitment channels including ex-military 
personnel and women returners to work.
A tailored development programme is in place 
for Mounties, covering training and development 
opportunities, including after the bond period. 
The Group is focussed on promoting its 
reputation in the marketplace as a leading 
graduate employer.
 
 
No change 
 
The Group has continued to 
receive a number of employer 
awards during the year, 
enhancing its reputation amongst 
graduates.
Military programmes both in the 
UK and the US have grown in the 
year. The number of ex-military 
personnel on site during the year 
exceeded 100 in the UK.
The Group’s nascent women 
returners to work can provide 
access to another talent pool.
 
6. Ability of business to effectively 
upscale (i) 
The inability of the business to effectively 
upscale as a result of not securing the 
required physical infrastructure (sites) 
would result in lost revenue and missed 
growth opportunities.
 
 
 
Research, identification and assessment of 
investment opportunities is performed on a 
regular basis.
The Group has gained considerable experience 
from successfully securing and developing existing 
sites which can be replicated for new sites.
 
 
Reduced 
 
The Group has a track record 
of successfully securing and 
developing sites both in the UK 
and overseas. During the year the 
Group opened a new Academy in 
Leeds with further openings after 
the year end in Glasgow, Hong 
Kong and Toronto.
 
7. Ability of business to effectively 
upscale (ii) 
The inability of the business to effectively 
upscale as a result of not being able 
to recruit and retain key staff with 
appropriate skills.
 
 
 
The remuneration packages of all employees 
are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain 
competitive.
An annual appraisal system includes the 
identification of training requirements, which are 
fulfilled within the following 12 months.
The Nomination Committee considers succession 
matters as a regular agenda item.
 
 
Reduced 
 
Recent developments in the 
Group’s business - its listing, 
increased profitability, expansion 
overseas - make it an attractive 
employer for skilled personnel.
 
8. Development of new service offerings 
The inability of the Group to develop new 
service offerings and revenue streams 
could result in a loss of customers and 
market share.
 
 
A new executive role, responsible for the 
development of new service offerings, was 
established in the year.
FDM’s flexible training model is able to develop 
course material relevant to customers’ needs.
FDM’s state-of-the-art training Academies 
are designed to provide quality training in a 
professional environment.
 
 
Reduced 
Appointment of Group Chief 
Information Officer in the year 
and a continued investment in the 
Group’s Academies has resulted in 
this risk being reduced.
Three new service streams were 
introduced in the year; Business 
Analysis, Business Intelligence and 
Cyber Security.
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22
Operational risks (continued)
Risk and impact Mitigation Movement in the year
 
9. Business interruption – caused by 
successful cyber-attack or other disaster 
This could result in a financial loss to 
the Group due to fraudulent access to 
Group funds/ assets and an impact on 
reputation through a loss of customer or 
sensitive data.
 
 
 
The Group’s IT systems are protected by anti-virus 
software and firewalls.
Staff are regularly made aware of the risk of 
a cyber-attack and the appropriate actions 
necessary to mitigate the risk of this occurring.
A new Group Chief Information Officer was 
appointed in the year who has taken responsibility 
for IT security matters.
 
 
Increased 
 
The Group experienced 
attempted cyber-attacks during 
the year - as such this is deemed 
to be a key risk to the Group.
 
Compliance risk 
 
Risk and impact Mitigation Movement in the year
 
10. International regulatory non-
compliance 
Failure to comply with international tax, 
legal, employment and other business 
regulations could result in significant fines 
and/ or revocation of business licences.
 
 
 
The Group has robust recruitment procedures 
which ensure the employment of appropriately 
skilled personnel in areas where compliance with 
legislation is required.
The Group seeks appropriate advice and engages 
external advisors as appropriate, particularly 
in overseas locations, and proactively manages 
those relationships.
 
 
No change 
 
The Group continues to invest in 
appropriately skilled personnel 
in areas where compliance and 
expertise is required.
Risk Management FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the 
Group over a longer period than the 12 months required by the “Going Concern” provision. The period selected by the 
Board for its assessment is three years, for the following reasons:
• The Group’s strategic plan covers a period of three years
• The period identified is underpinned by financial budgets and forecasts
• The core of FDM’s business is the Mountie model. The period identified approximates to the average lifecycle of 
Mounties’ engagement with FDM.
In making its assessment, the Board has considered the Group’s current position and prospects, its cash flow requirements 
and other key financial assumptions over the three year period and has sensitised certain of those assumptions where 
considered appropriate. As stated previously, the core of FDM’s business is the Mountie model; the sensitivity analysis 
therefore included the consideration of various scenarios relating to flexing Mountie headcount, direct costs of training 
and employing Mounties, as well as a loss of the Group’s two largest customers and major disruption to one of the 
Group’s major training facilities.
The Board has also taken into account in its assessment, the principal risks affecting the Group (as set out above); the 
likelihood of those risks occurring and the impact on the Group’s future performance, solvency and liquidity should those 
risks occur. 
Based on the results of this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
Strategic Report Risk Management FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24
The Group is focused 
on promoting its 
reputation in the 
marketplace as a 
leading graduate 
employer FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
25
Financial Review
“2015 was another year of strong financial performance as we delivered an 
adjusted operating profit of £30.2 million and increased our footprint in all our 
operating regions.”
 
Summary income statement
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
% change
Revenue £160.7m £123.3m 30.3%
Mountie revenue £119.4m £88.9m 34.3%
Contractor revenue £41.3m £34.4m 20.1%
Adjusted operating profit £30.2m £24.9m 21.3%
Adjusted profit before tax £30.1m £24.4m 23.4%
Reported profit before tax £29.4m £19.0m 54.7%
Pence per share Pence per share % change
Adjusted EPS 21.0 17.5 20.0%
Reported EPS 20.5 12.7 61.4%
 
Overview
Group revenue in the year increased by 30%, from £123.3 million to £160.7 million. Mountie revenue increased by 34% 
to £119.4 million (2014: £88.9 million) whilst contractor revenue increased by 20% to £41.3 million (2014: £34.4 million). 
The significant increase in Mountie revenue reflects the Group’s strategy of focusing on increasing Mountie numbers 
and Mountie revenue, with the latter representing 74% of total revenue in 2015 compared with 72% in 2014. This had a 
small positive impact on the gross margin which increased from 39.3% to 39.5%. The proportion of Mountie headcount 
allocated to the Group’s top 30 customers has decreased to 75% in week 52 2015 (2014: week 52 80%). The declining 
relative significance of non-Mountie revenues to the Group is expected to continue as the emphasis remains centred on 
growing Mountie numbers. 
An analysis of Mountie revenue and headcount by region is set out in the table below:
2015
Mountie 
revenue
£m
2014
Mountie 
revenue
 £m
2015
Mountie
numbers
at week 52 
2014
Mountie
numbers
at week 52
UK and Ireland 74.6 61.7 1,264 1,018
North America 31.0 18.0 520 341
EMEA 10.2 7.3 133 117
APAC 3.6 1.9 105 63
119.4 88.9 2,022 1,539
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26
Overheads increased in the year from £23.5 million to £33.9 million, reflecting the significant investment in larger 
Academies in the year in support of FDM’s continued growth and the increase in Mountie headcount. A new Academy 
opened in the year in Leeds with openings in Glasgow, Hong Kong and Toronto after the year end also impacting operating 
costs in the year as leases were signed and some staff contracted prior to the year-end. The Group made a number of 
strategic hires in the year across its management, recruitment, sales and training teams increasing total headcount in 
these areas of the business to 316 from 267. The increase in overheads as a result of the accelerated investments made 
in the year has had an impact on the adjusted operating margin which has decreased to 18.8% from 20.2%.
 
Adjusting items
The Group presents adjusted results, in addition to the statutory results, as the Directors consider that they provide a 
useful indication of underlying performance. The adjusted results are stated before performance share plan expenses 
including associated taxes and exceptional items (where applicable). 
There were no exceptional items in 2015 (2014: £5.4 million). The exceptional items in 2014 represented the £4.9 million 
of costs associated with admission of the Company’s ordinary shares to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange  
(“Admission”) and exceptional staff costs of £0.5 million. 
The performance share plan expenses including social security costs were £0.7 million in 2015 (2014: £nil). Details of the 
performance share plan are set out in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Net finance costs
As the Group has no borrowings, finance costs are minimal. The net charge for the year represents £16,000 of finance 
income and a finance expense of £168,000 representing non-utilisation charges on the undrawn element of the Group’s 
revolving credit facility.
 
Taxation
The Group’s total tax charge for the year was £7.3 million, equivalent to an effective tax rate of 25.0%, on profit before 
tax of £29.4 million (2014: effective tax rate of 28.9% based on a tax charge of £5.5 million and a profit before tax of £19.0 
million). The effective tax rate was higher in 2014 due to the impact of £4.0 million of non-deductible expenses incurred 
in relation to the Admission.
The effective tax rate in 2015 is higher than the underlying UK tax rate of 20.25% due primarily to profits earned in higher 
tax jurisdictions.
 
Earnings per share
The basic earnings per share increased in the year to 20.5 pence (2014: 12.7 pence) whilst adjusted earnings per share 
was 21.0 pence (2014: 17.5 pence). 
 
Financial Review FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27
Dividends
Subject to shareholders’ approval the Group’s total dividend for the year will be 21.5 pence per share (2014: 7.5 
pence per share). This comprises total ordinary dividends of 16.5 pence per share (2014: 7.5 pence per share) and 
a special dividend of 5.0 pence per share (2014: nil pence per share). The total ordinary dividends of 16.5 pence per 
share will be covered 1.2 times by basic earnings per share.
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy; the Group will retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing 
operating requirements, maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover and sufficient funds to invest in the Group’s 
longer term growth.
 
Cash flow and net funds
Net cash inflow generated from operating activities more than doubled in the year, increasing from £14.4 million in 2014 
to £29.6 million in 2015. After paying dividends of £16.7 million and capital investments of £2.4 million, net cash increased 
by £10.1 million to £22.4 million. Adjusted cash conversion increased to 121% from 101%, reflecting improved working 
capital management in the year.
At the end of the financial year, the Group had total facilities of £20.0 million available until 31 August 2018 (2014: £30.0 
million - a £10.0 million facility expired in February 2015). The committed facilities, which were undrawn for all of 2015, are 
in place to support the Group’s financing needs and provide headroom against forecast requirements.
 
Balance sheet
The Group has a robust balance sheet, with no debt and £22.4 million of cash. The Group’s largest asset, its trade 
receivable balance, reduced year on year, despite the growth in revenue and year end debtor days reduced to 48  
(2014: 64 days), as a result of improvements to the systems and credit control functions of the Group.
 
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
8 March 2016
Financial Review Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
28
Group revenue in  
the year increased  
by 30%, from  
£123.3 million to  
£160.7 million FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
29
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Directors continually consider the Group’s impact on its stakeholders including employees, contractors, trainees, 
customers, suppliers, investors and the wider community. Management ensures that the decisions made are responsible 
and ethical by taking into consideration the wider society external to the organisation. The Group is committed to 
contributing towards creating a sustainable environment and community in which it operates as a business.
Employees
The Directors recognise that the success of the business as a whole is dependent on all of our staff at every level. 
Throughout the Group we provide guidance, coordination and awareness of our key initiatives, enabling colleagues with 
similar interests or backgrounds to collaborate and take part in workshops, conferences, mentorship and local activities. 
The following new career support initiatives were introduced in 2015, helping each employee to reach their full potential:
• Consultant Peer Support (“CPS”) initiative
 The CPS initiative builds a sense of community among our Mounties within client locations. Our selected Ambassadors 
will help their fellow Mounties to start their new placements on site. 
• Mentoring Programme 
 In the UK we introduced the “Mentoring Programme”, enabling our people to have or become a mentor. This gives our 
employees the opportunity to firstly define and then achieve their ambitions with the help of someone within FDM as 
their mentor. It also gives more experienced consultants the chance to give something back by becoming a mentor. The 
programme is supported by an internal FDM Mentoring Team, which provides training via web seminars for mentors, 
matching participants, giving access to ME+
®
 (see below) to capture goals and ambitions, and the opportunity for 
feedback along the journey.
• ME+
®
 FDM launched a career self-development mobile app called ME+
®
. ME+
®
 aims to put people in control of their own 
careers and guides them to achieve their ambitions. The app was developed jointly with Me Plus Development Limited. 
The new innovative technology allows the accessibility required within a diverse, graduate community. FDM Group was 
shortlisted as a finalist in the category of “Excellence through Technology” in the Personnel Today Awards 2015 as a 
result of this project.
As part of recognising and rewarding our staff’s commitment and hard work, in April 2015, we introduced a new 
performance share plan that will allow participants to share in the benefit from the on-going growth of the Group. Details 
of the share plan are set out in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We communicate with employees regularly via email, monthly staff newsletters and face to face meetings in order to 
ensure that they are being supported especially when placed remotely on site. The FDM Consultant of the Month and FDM 
Stars initiatives are designed to reward those that are excelling, as nominated by our customers and other employees in 
the business. The Group systematically provides employees with information on matters of concern to them, consulting 
them or their representatives regularly, so that their views can be taken into account when making decisions that are 
likely to affect their interests.
Diversity and inclusion in the workplace
The Group’s workforce is made up of around 60 nationalities working together and is dedicated to promoting a diverse 
workforce that reflects wider society. There is zero tolerance towards discrimination throughout all our business 
activities whether it relates to race, nationality, religion, disability, gender, age, sexual orientation or any other such 
discrimination where an individual may feel marginalised. Currently half of attendees to the FDM assessment centre in 
the UK are from an ethnic minority background. It is this diversity that forms the foundation of our culture and drives 
our business forward. 
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30
Supporting ex-Forces personnel
The dedicated Ex-Forces Programme operated by our businesses in the UK and USA has demonstrated the Group’s 
support of the Armed Forces through the offering of IT and business careers to the ex-Forces community. The UK 
business has been recognised in this area through its work with the British Forces Resettlement Services and the Careers 
Transitions Partnership, as well as signing the Ministry of Defence Armed Forces Corporate Covenant to demonstrate our 
support to the Armed Forces community.
In the USA we have been recognised for our commitment to launching the careers of former Service men and women. 
In 2015, FDM was announced for the second year in a row as a “Best for Vets Employer” by The Military Times and 
“Most Valuable Employer for Military” by CivilianJobs.com. FDM signed a memorandum of agreement with the US Army 
Partnership for Youth Success programme in 2015, reaffirming our commitment to assisting veterans in making the 
transition into the commercial workplace.
People with disabilities
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the employment of disabled persons. In the event of members of staff 
becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group continues either in the job 
or in a suitable alternative. The Group endeavours to make any reasonable adjustments to enable disabled employees 
to fulfil the responsibilities of their job role. It is the Group’s policy to support disabled employees in all aspects of their 
training, development and promotion where it benefits the employee and the Group. 
Gender diversity 
The table below shows the gender split at different levels within the organisation as at 31 December 2015.
As at 31 December 2015 Number of males Number of females
On the Board 6 1*
Within Senior Management 11 9
All employees 1,924 678
* In January 2016, Michelle Senecal de Fonseca was appointed to the Board, increasing the number of female Board members to two.
The Group hosts regular “Advantage Sessions” to encourage women to consider a career in IT and FDM Female 
Champions act as role models to other women in the business. We take part in judging awards, networking events and 
speaker panels, as well as hosting the annual “FDM Everywoman in Technology Awards” that are designed to celebrate 
and promote outstanding women in the industry. FDM’s Chief Operating Officer, Sheila Flavell, has been recognised in 
Computer Weekly’s “Top 50 Most Influential Women in IT” in 2015. In Hong Kong, we introduced the “Returners to Work 
Programme” in 2015 aiding those who are ready to re-enter the workplace after a career break.
In 2014 FDM signed the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles CEO Charter, sealing our commitment to 
actively promote gender diversity in the workplace and the wider business community. In Germany, FDM signed the 
Komm mach MINT Memorandum in 2014, a government initiative to encourage companies to support more women 
into Science and Technology careers. 
FDM is currently part of the Home Office’s “Think, Act, Report” initiative to drive greater transparency on gender 
employment issues.
Our community
The Group believes that it has a responsibility to contribute towards the local community and wider society and actively 
encourages individual and collective initiatives to support this. In 2015, the Group carried out fundraising events globally 
to raise money for charities such as Save the Children, Macmillan Cancer Research, Nepal Earthquake Appeal and the 
German Sports Aid Foundation.
Corporate Social Responsibility FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
31
Our community (continued)
We run paid summer internships in our London, Glasgow, Leeds and New York offices. Undergraduate students are 
offered an eight-week placement, during which they work on live business projects, providing them with exposure to a 
commercial environment during their studies. The scheme aims to match students to business areas within the Group 
which are relevant to their studies, to ensure the interns gain targeted experience. 
Environmental policy
Throughout the Group the responsibility to minimise detrimental impact to the environment is recognised. Although 
we have no manufacturing facilities we aim to reduce the Group’s environmental impact by monitoring and minimising 
the consumption of energy in the Group’s operations and where possible promote the procurement of environmentally 
friendly products. The Group complies with all relevant environmental legislation. We aim to reduce waste and, where 
practicable, re-use and recycle consumables. We have recycling facilities in all our offices and recycle waste paper and ink 
cartridges. Computers that are no longer in use are donated to charities. We encourage communication via electronic 
documents. 
CO
2
 emissions
The Company complies with the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions reporting requirements of The Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2014. The Company reports all material GHG emissions, 
wherever possible using tonnes of CO
2
-equivalent (“CO
2
e tonnes”) as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are 
attributable to human activity, as defined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008(a). Emissions data is reported 
for the Group’s worldwide operations. The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with DEFRA’s 
“Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance (June 2014)”. 
Fuel type
Year ended 
 31 December 2015 
CO
2
e tonnes
Year ended 
31 December 2014 
CO
2
e tonnes
Scope 2
1
545
453
Scope 3
2
1,194 923
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: CO
2
e tonnes CO
2
e tonnes
CO
2
e tonnes per £ million of revenue
10.8 11.2
1 
Scope 2 being electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Group’s own use.
2 
Scope 3 being emissions which the Group is not directly responsible for, but arise as a by-product of its operation.
The Group’s Scope 1 CO
2
 emissions are negligible and are therefore not disclosed. The Group’s Scope 3 CO
2
 emissions 
increased in 2015 due to the inclusion of emissions data from travel bursary costs. The paying of travel bursary costs to 
trainees was introduced during 2015, and has allowed FDM to widen its recruitment base. 
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 8 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
 
 
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2016 
Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32
In 2015, FDM was 
announced for the 
second year in a 
row as a “Best for 
Vets Employer” by 
The Military Times 
and “Most Valuable 
Employer for Military” 
by CivilianJobs.com FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
33
Board of Directors
Ivan Martin
Non-Executive Chairman 
Ivan has been Chairman of FDM Group since 2006 and is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Ivan joined the board of Microgen plc as a Non-Executive Director in January 2016 
and became Chairman of the Board as planned in March 2016. He has no other significant 
commitments. He was a member of Misys plc’s board and headed their banking software 
division until 2005. Previously, Ivan worked at ACT Group plc and spent his earlier career at 
US multinational computer business, Unisys Corporation. Between 2007 and 2014, he was 
Executive Chairman of Sesame Bankhall Group. Ivan was also a Non-Executive Director of 
Avelo, a financial services technology business, and Chairman of Red Commerce, a specialist 
SAP recruitment and staffing business.
 
Roderick (Rod) Flavell  
Chief Executive Officer
Rod is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Group. He is responsible for the overall 
strategic development and expansion of the Group and, over the past 25 years, has been 
instrumental in developing the Group into one of the UK’s leading IT graduate employers. 
He is also a member of the Nomination Committee. Rod is a firm supporter of improving 
diversity in the IT workplace, with clear results being achieved by the Group through the 
FDM Women in IT, Returners to Work, ex-Forces and veteran career transition initiatives. 
Rod was recognised as “Best CEO in the IT Industry” in 2015 at the European CEO Awards. 
Sheila Flavell
Chief Operating Officer
Sheila was appointed Chief Operating Officer of FDM Group in 2008 and has over 25 years’ 
experience in both the public and private IT sectors. Sheila’s experience and knowledge of 
the Group has been key in driving the Group’s global expansion programme. She is fully 
committed to driving gender diversity in the workplace and spearheads FDM’s global Women 
in IT campaign. Her dedication to promoting gender balance in the workplace has been 
recognised through various awards including “Corporate Leader of the Year” at the Cisco 
everywoman in Technology Awards 2012, “Top 30 Most Inspirational Female Entrepreneurs in 
the City 2014” by Brummell Magazine and featured 13th in the Computer Weekly “Top 50 Most 
Influential Women in UK IT” 2015 list.
 
Andrew (Andy) Brown
Group Commercial Director
Andy has spent over 20 years with FDM and progressed through the Group’s sales team to 
become Global Sales Director in 2007. Andy now fulfils the role of Group Commercial Director 
and oversees the expansion of the Group with a key focus on the sales, HR and recruitment 
functions. Andy’s strategic focus is around developing new service offerings in line with client 
demands, as well as increasing the number of applicants for the Group’s graduate programme, 
which are both key areas to the success and growth of the Group. Andy has also played a key role 
in the launch and success of the UK Ex-Forces Programme, which was initiated in January 2014. 
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
34
Michael (Mike) McLaren
Chief Financial Officer 
Mike was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Group in 2011. Prior to joining the Group, 
Mike served as Chief Operating Officer and Group Finance Director of Timeweave plc (formerly 
Alphameric plc) and has served on a number of other Boards for both private and listed 
companies. Mike is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Peter Whiting
Non-Executive Director 
Peter was appointed in June 2014 as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination 
Committee. Peter has over twenty years of experience as an investment analyst, specialising 
in the software and IT services sector. Peter joined UBS in 2000 and led the UK small and mid-
cap research team. Between 2007 and 2011 he was Chief Operating Officer of UBS European 
Equity Research. One of his responsibilities during this period was the oversight of the graduate 
recruitment, training and development programmes both for the Research business and the 
Equities operation as a whole. Peter is also a Director of Microgen plc and MBA Polymers Inc.
Robin Taylor
Non-Executive Director
Robin was appointed in June 2014 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. He is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Robin is currently a Non-Executive Director of 
EMIS Group plc and Fusionex International plc and was formerly Chief Financial Officer of main 
market publicly listed companies Intec Telecom Systems plc, ITNET plc and JBA Holdings plc. 
Prior to that, Robin held a variety of financial and general management roles in both Europe 
and North America. 
Michelle Senecal de Fonseca
Non-Executive Director
Michelle was appointed in January 2016 and is a member of the Audit Committee and 
Remuneration Committee. Michelle has more than 25 years of experience in international 
telecommunications and technology and, until the start of 2016, served as the global Director 
of Cloud & Hosting Services at Vodafone, which she joined in July 2012. From 2007 to 2011 
Michelle worked at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development where she 
managed the Telecom, Media and Technology banking team. Michelle is a cofounder and 
board member of Women in Telecoms and Technology, a UK not-for-profit organisation, 
and is also a global council member at Thunderbird School of Global Management in  
Phoenix, Arizona.
Board of Directors FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
35
Corporate Governance Report
Chairman’s introduction
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Group’s Corporate Governance Report for the year ended  
31 December 2015. Since the Group’s listing in 2014, the Board has been committed to ensuring appropriate standards 
of governance are introduced and maintained throughout the Group. This report sets out the way the Group complies 
with good corporate governance principles; it describes how the Board and its Committees work and also the Board’s 
approach to risk management and internal control. I am delighted to welcome Michelle Senecal de Fonseca and David 
Lister to the Board, their appointments will further strengthen the capabilities and experience of the Board. Michelle 
joined the Board on 15 January 2016, whilst David’s appointment commences on 9 March 2016. 
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2014 (“the Code”). During the financial year 2015, the Company has complied with the Code other than in respect 
of the following exceptions:
• A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board was adopted on 27 January 2015, 
therefore was not in place for the whole year;
• The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that, on appointment, the chairman of a company with a Premium 
Listing on the Official List should meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code. Ivan 
Martin joined the Board of Directors of FDM in July 2006 and became Non-Executive Chairman of the Group on 1 
October 2006. Ivan does not meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code as he was a 
shareholder of the Company in the three year period prior to the Company’s listing; the period specified by the Code for 
not being a material shareholder. The Board decided in 2014 that in order to ensure maximum continuity and stability 
in the Company’s transition from a privately owned company to a listed company, Ivan should remain as Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Group because of the vast experience and knowledge that he brings to the FDM team. The Board 
believes that it is still in the best interests of the Group that Ivan remains as Chairman;
• The Nomination Committee was established on 27 January 2015, therefore was not in place for the whole year. Further 
information about the role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee is set out in the Nomination Committee 
report on page 45. The Nomination Committee did not carry out an effectiveness review during the year but plans to 
do so in 2016.
The provisions of the Code applicable to listed Companies are divided into five parts as set out below: 
1 Leadership
The role of the FDM Board 
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the long-term success of the Company. The Board 
meets regularly to review strategic, operational and financial matters. It approves the interim, preliminary and annual 
financial statements, the annual budget and longer term forecasts, significant contracts and capital investment in addition 
to reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems and business risks faced by the Group. Where appropriate, it 
has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. The Committees comprise 
the independent Non-Executive Directors (and in the case of the Nomination Committee, also Ivan Martin and Rod Flavell) 
and play a key role in supporting the Board. Information is supplied to the Board in advance of meetings and the Chairman 
ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on the matters being discussed. 
The Board closely monitors management and its delivery of a sustainable and profitable business, ensuring it operates within 
the appropriate risk-reward culture. The Group has established a core set of values, which the Board adheres to and promotes 
throughout the Group. These values have helped to further the entrepreneurial culture within FDM, which has been critical in 
promoting the continued success of the Group without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
36
A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Board’s decision and approval is available on the Company’s website,  
www.fdmgroup.com. These relate to matters of governance and include the following:
• Approving financial results and other financial, corporate and governance matters;
• Approving material contracts;
• Approving material capital expenditure;
• Approving Group strategy;
• Approving appointments to the Board;
• Determining dividend policy, as well as approving and recommending dividends as appropriate;
• Reviewing material litigation;
• Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the nature and extent of significant risks identified by 
management and associated mitigation strategies; and
• Approving the annual budget.
Board decisions are usually by consensus at Board meetings. On occasion, decisions may be taken by a majority of Board 
members. In the case of an equality of votes, FDM’s Articles of Association provide the Chairman with a casting vote. 
Where appropriate, the Board has delegated authority to its committees.
Details of the number of meetings of the Board (including sub-committees at which only certain Directors are required to 
attend) and committees and individual attendances by Directors are set out in the table below.
1
 Not applicable, not a member of the Committee and not required to attend.
2
 Ivan Martin attended one meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
3
 Rod Flavell and Mike McLaren attended Audit Committee meetings by invitation, not as Committee members. Rod Flavell attended 3/4 Audit Committee 
meetings and Mike McLaren attended 4/4 meetings during the year.
Corporate Governance Report
 
Board 
meetings 
attended
Audit  
Committee  
meetings 
attended
Remuneration  
Committee 
meetings 
attended
Nomination 
Committee  
meetings 
attended 
Number of meetings held 
in 2015
13 4 5 1
Ivan Martin 13/13 n/a
1
 n/a
1, 2
1/1
Rod Flavell 13/13 n/a
1,3
n/a
1
1/1
Sheila Flavell 13/13 n/a
1
n/a
1
n/a
1
Mike McLaren 13/13 n/a
1,3
n/a
1
n/a
1
Andy Brown 13/13 n/a
1
n/a
1
n/a
1
Peter Whiting 13/13 4/4 5/5 1/1
Jonathan Brooks 
(resigned 30 October 2015)
11/11 3/3 4/4 1/1
Robin Taylor 13/13 4/4 5/5 1/1 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
37
Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between them; the 
responsibility for this separation of duties rests formally with the Board.
As Chairman, Ivan Martin presides over the Board and is responsible for its leadership and overall effectiveness. In doing 
so, he fosters and helps to maintain an effective working relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As Chief Executive, Rod Flavell has responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company’s business and the 
implementation and delivery of the Board’s strategy.
This separation of roles enhances the independent oversight of executive management by the Board and more closely 
aligns the Board with shareholders. It also means that no one individual within the Group has unfettered powers of 
decision making. The Directors’ powers are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association.
Peter Whiting is the Group’s Senior Independent Director. In performing this role, Peter provides shareholders with 
someone to whom they can turn if ever they have concerns which they cannot address through the normal channels, for 
example with the Chairman or Executive Directors. Peter is also available as an intermediary between his fellow Directors 
and the Chairman.
Whilst there were no requests from Directors or shareholders for access to the Senior Independent Director during the 
year, the role serves as an important check and balance in FDM’s governance process. In the fulfilment of his role Peter 
ensures he maintains a thorough understanding of the views of the Company’s shareholders. 
Role of the Non-Executive Directors 
The Group’s current Non-Executive Directors have a broad and complementary mix of business skills, knowledge and 
experience acquired across sectors and geographies. This allows them to provide strong, independent and external 
perspectives to Board discussions, which complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors. In turn, this 
leads to a diversity of views being aired at Board meetings, robust and constructive debate and optimal decision-making. 
At the same time, it also reduces the likelihood of any one perspective prevailing unduly. A key role performed by the 
Non-Executive Directors is the scrutiny of executive management in meeting agreed objectives and monitoring the 
reporting of performance. They also ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management are both rigorous 
and appropriate for the needs of the business. Following the resignation of Jonathan Brooks during the year, the Board 
is further strengthened with the appointment of Michelle Senecal de Fonseca on 15 January 2016 and David Lister with 
effect from 9 March 2016.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, up to a maximum of three years, and reappointment is 
not automatic. The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, including the expected time 
commitment, are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. 
During the year, the Board considered the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors. In doing so, it concluded 
that, with the exception of Ivan Martin as detailed in the Statement of Compliance, each Non-Executive Director was 
independent of management and free from any relationship that could interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. The Board will regularly review the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
38
2 Board effectiveness 
Composition of the Board 
The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors. Their biographies, including 
information on prior experience are set out on pages 33 and 34. 
The Group’s policy is to hire the best candidates for all positions at all levels throughout the business, irrespective of 
gender, including candidates at Board level. Board composition is regularly reviewed to ensure that the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience of the Company’s Board remains appropriate to the business.
With Sheila Flavell as Chief Operating Officer, and Michelle Senecal de Fonseca as a Non-Executive Director, the number 
of female Board members has increased to two (2014: one). Further information and statistics on gender diversity can 
be found within the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 30. The Board has not set any specific aspirations 
in respect of gender diversity at Board level and supports fully the Code principles in respect of diversity. The Board 
recognises the benefits of diversity, of which gender is one aspect, and it will continue to ensure that this is taken into 
account when considering any particular appointment, whilst ensuring appointments are made on merit and ability to 
enhance the performance of the business. Jonathan Brooks resigned from the Board on 30 October 2015. The Board is 
of the view that the appointments of Michelle Senecal de Fonseca and David Lister will provide additional experience and 
capabilities to strengthen the Board and support the Group’s growth plans and strategic objectives.
Conflict of interests 
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by Directors of any interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the 
Company’s interests and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises, in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest only non-interested Directors (i.e. those that 
have no interest in the matter under consideration) will be able to take the relevant decision. In taking such a decision the 
Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company and 
may impose such limits or conditions as they think fit. The Board has reviewed the procedures in place and considers 
that they operate effectively. There were no actual conflicts of interest which arose during the year under review or to the 
date of this report.
Appointments to the Board 
The Board recognises its responsibility for planning and progressive refreshing of the Board. There is a formal and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, the primary responsibility for which is delegated to the 
Nomination Committee. Further details of the work undertaken by the Committee during the 2015 financial year are 
contained on pages 45 and 46.
Board commitment 
The Board has established a policy permitting its Executive Directors to hold only one external Non-Executive Directorship, 
subject to any possible conflict of interest.
This ensures that the Executive Directors retain sufficient time for and focus on the Company’s business, whilst allowing 
them to gain external board exposure as part of their leadership development. Executive Directors are permitted to 
retain any fees paid for such services. 
Details of remuneration received by each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 are shown in 
the single figure table presented on page 57 of the Remuneration Report.
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
39
While the Company does not have a similar policy for Non-Executive Directors, their key external commitments are reviewed 
each year to ensure that they too have sufficient time commitment for the fulfilment of their Board responsibilities. Key 
external commitments of the Board are included within their biographies on pages 33 and 34.
The Board considered the commitments of the Chairman and is satisfied that he has sufficient time to devote to his Board 
responsibilities with FDM. However, the Board will keep his commitment under review as a matter of good governance. 
Board induction and development 
On appointment, each Director takes part in a tailored induction programme which is designed to give him or her an 
understanding of the Company’s business, governance and stakeholders. 
Elements of the programme include:
• Senior management briefings to provide a business overview, update on current trading conditions and strategic 
commercial issues;
• Meetings with the Company’s key advisors and major shareholders, where necessary;
• Head Office site visit (the location of Board meetings are periodically rotated to ensure the Board members have 
exposure to different sites and employees);
• Provision of a legal and regulatory memorandum and briefing on the duties of Directors of listed companies;
• Details of the Group corporate structure, Board and Committee structures and arrangements and key policies and 
procedures; and
• The latest statutory financial reports and management accounts. 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that Directors are provided with updates on changes 
in the legal and regulatory environment in which the Company operates. These are incorporated into the annual agenda 
of the Board’s activities along with wider business and industry updates; the Chairman also keeps under review the 
individual training needs of Board members. The Company’s principal external advisors provide updates to the Board, 
at least annually, on the latest developments in their respective fields, and relevant update sessions are included in the 
Board’s meetings. The Company Secretary presents corporate governance reports to the Board as appropriate, together 
with any relevant technical guidance. In this way, each Director keeps their skills and knowledge current so they remain 
competent in fulfilling their role both on the Board and on any Committee of which they are a member. Training for 
Directors is available as required and is provided by way of external courses.
Information and support 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and agrees a forward calendar of matters that it wishes to discuss at 
each meeting. Standing items, including operational and financial reviews and Committee updates are considered 
at each scheduled Board meeting, with unplanned items such as commercial or property-related decisions being 
considered as and when required. The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, plans the agenda for each 
Board meeting and ensures that supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely and of sufficient quality to enable the 
Board to discharge its duties.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
40
Specific areas of focus by the Board during the year included:
All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises them on Board and governance matters. As well 
as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent external 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary.
Board evaluation 
A formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board was carried out during the year. The evaluation was carried out 
internally and led by the Chairman. All Directors completed an evaluation questionnaire, followed up with one-to-one 
meetings with the Chairman. The questionnaire covered a broad range of subjects, including board meeting agendas; 
frequency of meetings; risk; strategy; board composition and member performance; and other challenges faced by the 
Board and how those are managed.
Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee effectiveness were also assessed during the year in the same way as 
outlined above. The Nomination Committee effectiveness review will be carried out in 2016. 
Strategy • Group strategy update
• Separate consideration of strategic components, including graduate recruitment, IT and 
international expansion 
Operational • Capital expenditure (including approval of new offices in Leeds, Glasgow, Hong Kong and 
Toronto)
Financial • Monthly trading statements
• Business updates from the UK, North America, EMEA and APAC management teams
• Full year and half year results
• Group budget and two year forecasts
Risk • Group risk register
Governance • Matters reserved for the Board
• Appointment of Nomination Committee and approval of its terms of reference
• Consideration of Board diversity
• Board effectiveness review
• Approved viability period and statement
• Going concern 
Investors • Investor Relations Strategy
• Markets – received market update from Investec
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
41
There was general agreement that, overall, the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively throughout 
the period. Board members’ experience remains a key strength, notwithstanding that it could be bolstered further with 
additional member(s) with relevant experience which the Board has acted upon by recruiting two new Non-Executive 
Directors. It was noted that interaction with regional and international management teams, particularly in Germany, could 
be enhanced. An action plan has been put in place following the evaluation process to address this and other findings. 
Re-election of Directors at the 2016 Annual General Meeting 
The Company’s Articles of Association require that any newly appointed Non-Executive Directors retire at the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) and offer themselves for re-election. Accordingly, Michelle Senecal de Fonseca who was 
appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director since the previous AGM and David Lister who joins the Board on 9 
March 2016, will be retiring and standing for re-election at the AGM this year. In respect of existing directors, the Articles 
of Association require that such Directors only offer themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years. 
As all of the Directors (other than the two Non-Executive Directors referred to above) offered themselves for re-election 
at the previous AGM, none of those Directors are required to stand for re-election this year. However, the Board is of 
the view that it is more appropriate that a proportion of the Directors retire and seek re-election each year. As such Rod 
Flavell, Peter Whiting and Robin Taylor will also retire at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
Having received advice from the Nomination Committee, the Board and the Chairman are satisfied that each Director is 
qualified for re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and commitment to the Board. 
3 Accountability
Financial and Business Reporting 
In its reporting to shareholders, the Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be 
fair, balanced, and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance and strategy.
Risk management and internal control 
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Group’s risk management systems and internal control systems are designed to meet the Group’s needs and to manage 
the risks to which it is exposed, including the risks of failure to achieve business objectives and of material misstatement 
or loss. However such risks cannot be eliminated. The Group’s systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance. They can never completely protect against such factors as unforeseeable events, human fallibility or fraud.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 
Group (in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance). The Board’s view of the Group’s key risks and how the Group 
seeks to manage those risks is set out on pages 18 to 22.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls which have been in place from the start 
of the year to the date of approval of this report and believes that it is in accordance with the guidance ‘Internal Control: 
Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’. 
The key elements of the system of internal controls include: 
• The Board meets on a regular basis and is responsible for the operational strategy, reviewing operating results, 
identification and mitigation of risks and communication and application of the Group’s policies and procedures. 
Where appropriate, matters are reported to the Board;
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42
• The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities and accountabilities;
• Regular reports are made available to the Board on key developments, financial performance against budget and operational 
issues in the business;
• Operational and financial controls and procedures are in place which include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts 
and signing authorities, IT application controls, organisation structure, segregation of duties and reviews by management. In 
addition to these controls, there is a set of group-wide policies on procedures addressing non-quantifiable risks. These include the 
Group’s code of conduct and ethics, anti-corruption policy and other arrangements;
• Centralised finance and support functions exist;
• A formal budgeting process occurs annually. The budgets and forecasts are reviewed, approved and monitored by the Board;
• Regular meetings occur between the Executive Board and Senior Management team; and
• Increased scope external audits are performed on specific areas of the business.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal control system during the reporting period. During the course of its review, the 
Board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be significant, which are not currently 
being addressed.
The Audit Committee 
The composition and work of the Audit Committee, including its relationship with the external auditors, is set out in the 
Audit Committee Report on pages 47 to 51.
4 Remuneration 
The Company’s policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration of each Director are given in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 53 to 73.
5 Relationship with shareholders
In order to maintain dialogue with institutional shareholders, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer meet 
with the Company’s major shareholders following interim and final results announcements, and otherwise as appropriate. 
The Company uses the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders and welcomes their participation. 
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and all Directors are expected to be available 
to take questions. 
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 10.30am on 28 April 2016 at 5 New Street Square, London EC4A 3TW, is enclosed 
with this report. In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Notice of AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the meeting and the notice for general meetings will be sent to shareholders at least 14 days before 
each general meeting and will include details of the resolutions and the explanatory notes relating to them thereto. 
Corporate Governance Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
43
The Board proposes separate resolutions for each issue and proxy forms allow shareholders who are unable to attend 
the AGM (or general meeting, as applicable) to vote for or against or to withhold their vote on each resolution. As soon as 
practical following the conclusion of the AGM (or general meeting, as applicable), the proxy votes cast, including details of 
votes withheld, shall be announced to the London Stock Exchange via regulatory News Service and published on our website. 
 
The Company’s Articles of Association can only be amended by special resolution approved by the Company’s 
shareholders.
The Group’s website (www.fdmgroup.com) is the primary source of information on the Group. 
 
The Corporate Governance Report was approved by the Board on 8 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Ivan Martin 
Chairman
8 March 2016 
Corporate Governance Report Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
44
The Group’s current 
Non-Executive 
Directors have a broad 
and complementary 
mix of business 
skills, knowledge and 
experience acquired 
across sectors and 
geographies FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
45
Nomination Committee Report
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. Information on the activities of the Committee, including 
the details of the process leading to the appointment of two new Non-Executive 
Directors, is set out in this report.
I am delighted to welcome Michelle Senecal de Fonseca to the Board and am 
very confident that Michelle will bring a new perspective to the Board based on 
her previous professional experience. I am also delighted that David Lister will be 
joining the Board on 9 March 2016.
 
Committee composition
Ivan Martin (Chairman) 
Rod Flavell 
Robin Taylor 
Peter Whiting
 
Role of the Nomination Committee
The role of the Committee is summarised below and detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which is available 
on the Group’s website (www.fdmgroup.com).
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• Review the composition of the Board and its Committees including its balance of skills and experience and make 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes;
• Lead the process for Board appointments and recommend new appointments to the Board for approval; and
• Consider succession for Directors and other senior executives.
 
Committee activities during the year
The Committee meets when necessary and was convened once during the financial year. Specific matters considered at 
the meeting included: Review of Board composition; Review of Committee’s terms of reference; and consideration of the 
appointment of additional Non-Executive Directors (see below). 
Non-Executive Director appointment process
The Committee’s key focus during the year was overseeing the process for the appointment of two new Non-Executive 
Directors. Prior to Jonathan Brooks’ resignation, the Nomination Committee had started the process of recruiting 
one additional Non-Executive Director, but widened the search to two Non-Executive Directors following Jonathan’s 
resignation. The Committee set out the types of skills and attributes it envisaged the new Non-Executives would have, 
which it communicated to two recruitment specialists, Sapphire Partners and Gillamor Stephens. Sapphire Partners and 
Gillamor Stephens were selected following a tender process and have no other connection to the Group.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
46
Following the identification of potential candidates for the role by Sapphire Partners and Gillamor Stephens, 
all Committee members interviewed the potential candidates with the final short list of candidates being 
interviewed by the Executive Directors. The Board was delighted that Michelle Senecal de Fonseca and David 
Lister accepted appointments to the Board, Michelle on 15 January 2016 and David with effect from 9 March 2016. 
 
The Committee and the Board have sought to recruit the best candidates to promote the long term success of the Group 
based on merit and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board. The appointment of Michelle Senecal de 
Fonseca increases the number of female Board members to two. Further information regarding Board diversity can be 
found on page 38. 
Looking ahead
The focus of the Committee in 2015 was very much the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors. In 2016, the 
Committee will continue to assess the Board composition and will consider in greater detail succession planning for the 
Board over the short, medium and longer terms. The Committee also plans to carry out an effectiveness review.
 
Ivan Martin 
Chairman
8 March 2016
Nomination Committee Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
47
Audit Committee Report
Chairman’s introduction
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report for 
the year ended 31 December 2015. The report is intended to give a meaningful 
insight into the workings of the Committee during the financial year in order to 
demonstrate how we have performed our responsibilities in relation to financial 
reporting, internal controls and risk management and in relation to the external 
auditors. 
The Committee has supported the Board fully in addressing all of the requirements 
of the new UK Corporate Governance Code (issued September 2014) with a 
particular focus on risk identification and ensuring effective mitigating controls are 
in place. Looking forward to 2016, in addition to undertaking its usual business, 
the Committee will continue to look at ways in which the Group’s internal control 
environment can be improved as the Group’s international operations continue to 
expand. 
 
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by, and reports to, the Board. The Committee’s principal role is to assist the Board in 
carrying out its oversight responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal control and risk management and in 
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Group’s auditors. The Committee sets its own agenda, in addition to 
routine matters and those suggested by the main Board. More details on the Committee’s role and responsibilities can 
be found in the Committee’s terms of reference which are available in the Governance section of the Company’s website 
at www.fdmgroup.com. The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
 
Membership
The members of the Committee, who are all Non-Executive Directors of the Company, are Robin Taylor (Chairman),  
Peter Whiting and Michelle Senecal de Fonseca. The Code requires that at least one member of the Committee should 
have recent and relevant financial experience. The Chairman of the Committee, who is a chartered accountant with 
considerable financial experience in a public company environment, fulfils this requirement. Peter Whiting and Michelle 
Senecal de Fonseca have experience in financial matters through their other business activities.
Jonathan Brooks resigned from the Board and the Audit Committee on 30 October 2015. Michelle Senecal de Fonseca 
was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 15 January 2016. David Lister will join the Board and Audit 
Committee on 9 March 2016.
 
Meetings
The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series of scheduled meetings during the year, the agenda of 
each being linked to events in the financial calendar of the Group. The Committee met four times during the financial 
year and all members were in attendance at all meetings during their tenure.
During the year, the Group Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Financial Controller and other senior 
management, were invited to attend Committee meetings where appropriate in order to ensure that the Committee was 
fully informed of events and developments within the business and to reinforce a strong risk management culture. The 
Group’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), attended all four Committee meetings during the financial year. 
Governance Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
48
Activity
Principal activities during the year
Since the beginning of the financial year, the Committee undertook the following activities: 
 
Looking ahead
In 2015, the Committee benefited from a rolling series of presentations to the Board by senior members from Group and 
regional management. For the 2016 financial year and with a view to maximising its effectiveness, the Committee plans 
to avail itself of regular management briefings which will include the appraisal and management of key risks.
Audit Committee Report
March 2015
• Reviewed and recommended the Preliminary Statements and Annual Report (including appropriateness of the 
going concern basis of accounting) to the Board for approval
• Reviewed PwC’s reports to the Audit Committee
• Approved the annual Audit Committee programme for the remainder of 2015
• Reviewed the Group’s risk register and related controls
• Completed Audit Committee and External Auditor effectiveness reviews
June 2015
• Reviewed PwC’s interim review scope
• Considered PwC’s independence
• Reviewed Audit Committee Terms of Reference
• Reviewed processes governing signature of contracts in overseas offices
• Received a presentation from senior management in respect of planned IT systems improvements and upgrades
July 2015
• Reviewed PwC’s report to the Audit Committee (interim review)
• Reviewed and recommended the Interim Statement to the Board for approval
• Reviewed and approved PwC’s audit fees for the year ended 31 December 2015
December 2015
• Reviewed PwC’s audit plan 
• Reviewed the Group’s risk register and related controls
• Reviewed the draft viability and going concern statements
• Reviewed the whistleblowing policy (annual review)
• Reviewed the anti-bribery policy (annual review)
• Received an IT Security update following a comprehensive presentation to the full Board in September
• Reviewed the Group’s updated accounting policies manual
• Considered the requirement for an internal audit function FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
49
Governance
Significant financial reporting items
The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers important by virtue of their potential impact on 
the Group’s results or the level of estimates and judgements involved in their application to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. To this end, the Committee receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Group’s external auditors, 
PwC. The Committee has considered all significant estimates and judgements identified in note 4 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below:
 
 
Internal control and risk management
The key elements of the Group’s internal control framework and procedures are set out on pages 41 and 42.
A review of the Group’s system of risk management begins on page 18.
As noted on page 18, the Board as a whole deals directly with the risk management process. The Committee proactively 
supports the work of the Board in respect of risk and during the year it separately identified and progressed a number 
of risk related projects. The Audit Committee regularly receives reports from management and PwC which enable it to 
effectively review and assess the Group’s internal control environment.
Area of focus How addressed
Revenue
Revenue in respect of non-receipted timesheets is accrued 
at a percentage of the estimated contract value where 
timesheets have not been received at the cut-off date 
from Mounties or contractors.
 
 
The Committee discussed and reviewed revenue 
recognition in detail with management and PwC and 
remains satisfied that Group accounting policies with 
regard to revenue recognition have been adhered to and 
that judgements remain appropriate.
Share-based payments
During the year, the Company granted awards under the 
FDM Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”). Associated with 
accounting for these awards are judgements relating to 
the number of shares which will vest.
 
 
The Committee discussed and reviewed the key 
assumptions and judgements applied in calculating the 
share-based payment charge with the Board and are 
satisfied that they are appropriate.
Going concern and viability 
The Audit Committee has considered the “Going 
Concern” basis and viability period assumed within the 
financial statements. The underlying assumptions, the 
reasonableness of those assumptions and the headroom/
funding facilities available were considered as part of the 
Audit Committee’s review. The review also considered the 
impact of a range of sensitivities on the key assumptions.
 
 
The Committee is satisfied with the judgements in these 
areas and that sufficient work was performed to enable 
the Audit Committee to conclude on the adoption of 
the going concern basis. The Committee reviewed and 
concurred with the reasonableness of the viability period 
included within the viability statement on page 23. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
50
External auditor
Both the Committee and the Board keep the external auditor’s independence under close scrutiny. PwC is the Group’s 
current external auditor and was originally appointed in 2013. The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the 
audit and the Group is not required under the CMA order or EU Regulation to conduct a tender before the year ending 
31 December 2023. Any recommendation relating to the re-appointment of the external auditors will continue to be the 
subject of rigorous review each year.
Auditor independence and objectivity
The Audit Committee monitors the fees paid to the external auditors for non-audit work and delegates the authority 
for approval of such work to the Chief Financial Officer where the level of fees involved is not material. The Group 
receives a formal statement of independence and objectivity from PwC each year and obtains quotes in a competitive 
tender for non-audit work performed. An analysis of non-audit fees in the year is provided in note 7 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Any significant non-audit work will, in future years, continue to require prior approval from the 
Audit Committee. The Group does engage other independent accounting firms to perform tax consulting work and other 
assignments to further ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditors is not compromised.
Audit partners are rotated every five years. The current audit partner is Jaskamal Sarai. He replaced Alan Kinnear, who 
stepped down from his role at the end of the 2014 financial year audit, following his retirement from PwC.
Effectiveness of external auditor
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor, taking into account 
the input from management, consideration of responses to questions from the Committee, the audit approach and the 
audit findings reported to the Committee, including conducting one to one meetings with the audit partner. Based on 
this, the Committee concluded that:
• the overall audit approach, materiality, threshold and areas of audit focus were appropriate to the business; and
• the audit team possessed the necessary quality, expertise and experience to provide an independent and objective 
audit.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee regularly considers the need for the Group to have its own internal audit function and did so again 
at its December Board meeting. The Committee is satisfied that no separate internal audit function is required as the 
business model lacks complexity, significant risks are managed and controlled and a formal governance model is in place 
ensuring the proper establishment of goals which are measured and managed closely by executive management. In 
addition, the primary accounting and financial activities are centralised in a single location.
However the Committee plans to engage an independent firm of accountants to conduct additional reviews on systems, 
controls and processes and with particular focus on overseas jurisdictions.
The Audit Committee will continue to review the need for the Group to have its own internal audit function annually.
Whistleblowing
A Whistleblowing policy enables employees to report concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, 
without fear of recrimination.
The Committee reviewed the Group’s Whistleblowing policy and procedures in December 2015 and is satisfied that they 
are appropriate to the size and scale of the Group.
Audit Committee Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
51
Anti-bribery and corruption policy
The Group has a zero-tolerance policy to bribery and corruption. The Group’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy is issued 
to all employees. The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Policy in December 2015 and concluded that it was 
sufficient for managing the anti-bribery and corruption risks faced by the Group.
Audit Committee effectiveness
The Committee last considered its own effectiveness in discharging its duties in March 2015. The effectiveness review was 
carried out using a questionnaire which was completed by each member of the Committee together with a comparison 
against the Committee’s terms of reference and general audit committee best practice. The Committee is satisfied that its 
performance during the previous financial year was effective. Details of the main activities of the Committee and its role 
and responsibilities have been detailed earlier in this report.
 
Robin Taylor 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
8 March 2016
Governance Audit Committee Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52
During the year, the 
Company granted 
awards under the  
FDM Performance  
Share Plan FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
53
Remuneration Report
Statement from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. This Report is presented in two sections:
• The Annual Report on Remuneration – this provides details of the amounts 
earned by Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 and how 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved at the 2015 AGM will be operated 
for the year commencing 1 January 2016. This will be subject to an advisory vote 
at the 2016 AGM; and
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy – this sets out the remuneration policy for 
Directors approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM. As noted below, we do not 
propose to seek shareholder approval for any revisions to the policy, which will 
continue to apply for 2016.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The Committee comprises Peter Whiting (Chairman), Robin Taylor and Michelle Senecal de Fonseca. Jonathan Brooks was 
a member of the Committee until his resignation on 30 October 2015. David Lister will join the Board and Remuneration 
Committee on 9 March 2016. No Directors are involved in or present for discussions about their own remuneration. 
The role of the Committee is to:
• Determine the Company’s remuneration policy for all Directors and the Chairman;
• Review and determine remuneration and incentive packages for each of the Company’s Executive Directors;
• Operate the Company’s incentive plans in line with the policy report and various plan rules; and
• Ensure it is kept abreast on issues affecting all aspects of executive remuneration.
The full Remuneration Committee terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website. 
 
Our approach to remuneration and its link to our strategy
In 2014 in connection with Admission, the Remuneration Committee formulated a policy in respect of Executive Directors’ 
remuneration to ensure that the policy is aligned with best practice while continuing to enable the Company to attract the 
right calibre of Executives and promote the long term success of the Company. I was delighted that the policy was strongly 
supported by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, with over 98% of votes cast in favour of it. The policy is set out on pages 64 to 
73 and took effect from the 2015 AGM, although in practice was applied throughout the year. As a Committee, we believe 
that policy remains appropriate and, accordingly, it will continue to apply for 2016; we have set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration on page 61 how we propose to implement the policy in 2016.
Our reward strategy, and the way in which we implement it, is driven by our overall strategy for the Company. The table 
opposite illustrates how elements of remuneration are linked to that overall strategy.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
54
I maintain contact as required with the principal shareholders of the Company about remuneration to ensure that 
interests are aligned so far as is practicable.
Remuneration decisions in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015
The year commencing 1 January 2015 was the Company’s first full year as a listed company and in which remuneration 
arrangements for the Executive Directors were determined in accordance with the shareholder approved Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy.
The annual bonus earned by the Executive Directors during 2015 was determined by the Committee based on financial 
performance relative to full-year targets, specifically group pre-tax profit and Mountie revenue. Bonuses earned by the 
Executive Directors in respect of 2015 were 82.3% of salary, reflecting the strong performance by the Group during 2015 
as detailed in the Strategic Report. Further details of the annual bonus outturn are included in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 58.
No long term incentives vested by reference to performance in 2015. However, on 20 April 2015 the first awards were 
made under the Company’s 2014 PSP. These awards are in respect of the 2015 – 2017 performance period and incentivise 
Executive Directors and employees to deliver challenging three-year adjusted earnings per share growth targets over this 
period. Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 
60. Although the Directors’ remuneration policy as approved by shareholders enables us to grant awards at the level of 
up to 100% of salary, the 2015 awards to the Executive Directors were scaled back to 50,000 shares each to enable the 
grant of awards to employees below the Board. Accordingly, in line with our culture of encouraging employee share 
ownership and incentivising our colleagues to deliver increased shareholder value, in 2015 we extended participation in 
the PSP to employees below Board level. 
Remuneration Report
Our overall strategy Our reward strategy
Our strategy: we aim to deliver customer led, 
sustainable profitable growth on a consistant 
basis
Our remuneration strategy is designed to promote the long term 
success of the Company. Long term performance is measured by the 
three year EPS performance metrics applying to our Performance 
Share Plan (“PSP“). Performance targets are set so that maximum 
awards can only be earned for the achievement of stretching levels 
of performance. 
We apply an underpin to our PSP awards so that vesting is subject to 
an assessment of overall financial performance.
Our KPIs and key financial milestones Mountie revenue, profitability and earnings per share are all key 
performance indicators for the company. We reflect these in the 
remuneration strategy as performance measures for the annual 
bonus and PSP awards.
Our vision and values: We are committed to 
our people
Employee share ownership is fundamental to our culture and 
reflected in the wide participation in our share incentive plans. In 
2015 we were able to extend participation in our PSP to employees 
below Board level. 
Alignment: Our Executive Directors’ interests 
are aligned with the interests of other 
shareholders
All our Executive Directors have significant shareholdings in the 
Company, aligning their interests with those of other shareholders. 
We further align our Executive Directors and other shareholders 
by structuring the remuneration package so that a substantial 
proportion of the maximum opportunity is based on achieving 
stretching performance conditions. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
55
Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (continued)
Our Executive Directors’ salaries were increased in connection with Admission, and those salaries continued to apply for 
the whole of 2015. 
Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2016
The Committee has approved a 5% increase to the base salary levels for all Executive Directors with effect from 1 
January 2016. Since these salaries were last reviewed at the time of Admission, this is equivalent to an annual increase 
of 3.3%, which is within the range of increases awarded to the wider workforce. The Committee remains satisfied that 
they represent competitive, though not excessive, salaries for a company of the size and complexity of FDM, particularly 
taking into account the growth of the business as a whole since Admission. Mike McLaren’s base salary was subject to 
an additional £30,000 increase (to which the same percentage increase was applied) to reflect the increased complexity 
of his role, particularly given the rates of growth experienced in overseas territories, in recognition of his performance 
and development within the role and in the context of market rates for CFOs in other companies of a similar size and 
complexity, with the result that his salary is aligned with the rest of the executive team at FDM. The metrics in respect 
of bonuses and the targets and vesting schedule in respect of the PSP will be unchanged in 2016 compared with 2015.
Feedback
We always welcome feedback from shareholders on any aspect of our Directors’ remuneration and will continue to 
monitor our remuneration policy to ensure it remains aligned to the business strategy and delivery of shareholder value.
 
Peter Whiting 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 March 2016
Governance Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
56
Employee share 
ownership is 
fundamental to 
our culture and 
reflected in the wide 
participation in our 
share incentive plans FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
57
Annual Report on Remuneration
Audited Section
The Audited Section of this report comprises only the following sections:  
• Single figure table; 
• Annual bonus for 2015; 
• Long term incentive awards vesting in 2015; 
• Total pension entitlements;
• Payments made to former Directors during the year;
• Payments for loss of office made during the year; and 
• Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share 
interests.
Single figure table
The table below details the total remuneration receivable by each Director for the financial years ended 31 December 
2015 and 31 December 2014. Where necessary, further explanation of the values provided are included in the notes to 
the table or the additional information that follows it in relation to the annual bonus and Long Term Incentives (“LTI“) 
vesting in respect of performance in 2015.
Salary 
and fees
1
 
£000
Benefits 
£000 
Annual 
bonus 
£000 
Long term 
incentives 
£000
Pension 
£000
Other
2
 
£000 
Total 
remuneration 
£000
Executive Directors
Rod Flavell 2015 350.0 19.5 288.1 – 10.5 – 668.1
2014 335.9 19.3 153.0 – 10.0 140.3 658.5
Sheila Flavell 2015 260.0 13.2 214.0 – 7.8 – 495.0
2014 244.3 20.8 111.6 – – 140.3 517.0
Mike McLaren 2015 220.0 13.1 181.1 – 6.7 – 420.9
2014 200.6 13.1 92.0 – 6.3 – 312.0
Andy Brown 2015 260.0 13.4 214.0 – 7.9 – 495.3
2014 244.3 13.2 111.6 – 8.1 140.3 517.5
Non-Executive Directors
Ivan Martin 2015 122.5 – – – – – 122.5
2014 108.4 – – – – – 108.4
Peter Whiting 2015 45.0 – – – – – 45.0
2014 23.7 – – – – – 23.7
Jonathan Brooks
3
2015 37.5 – – – – – 37.5
2014 23.7 – – – – – 23.7
Robin Taylor 2015 40.8 – – – – – 40.8
2014 21.1 – – – – – 21.1
John Hartz
4
2015 – – – – – – –
2014 – – – – – – –
Richard Swann
4
2015 – – – – – – –
2014 – – – – – – –
1 The Executive Directors’ salaries were reviewed in connection with Admission. As disclosed in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report, the salaries 
that applied from Admission on 20 June 2014, as set out in the Prospectus, continued to apply in 2015. The increase in the Executive Directors’ salaries 
between 2014 and 2015 shown in the above table is attributable to the 2014 salaries being calculated by reference to the pre-Admission salary in respect 
of part of the year.
2 Comprises equity shares awarded during the period.
3 Comprises fees until his date of resignation on 30 October 2015.
4 John Hartz and Richard Swann received no remuneration from the Group. In 2015 there were no fees charged by Inflexion Private Equity LLP for their 
services as Directors (2014: £42,500) as both Directors had resigned on 16 June 2014.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
58
The figures in the single figure table on the previous page are derived from the following: 
 
In 2014, during the Admission process, some of the Directors received payment from the selling shareholders for 
services provided in relation to realising their investment. As these services were not made for the benefit of or paid 
by the Company, the remuneration is not disclosed in this report, nor is it shown as an expense in the Group’s financial 
statements.
Annual bonus for 2015
Each Executive Director’s annual bonus opportunity for 2015 was based on an adjusted profit before tax target (governing 
80% of the opportunity) and a Mountie revenue target (governing 20% of the opportunity). The targets set are detailed in 
the table below, along with performance against those targets. 
For the adjusted profit before tax element of the bonus, a threshold performance level was set at which the bonus paid 
(20% of the maximum for that element of the bonus) would have been self-funding by reference to a target level of 
performance of £28.4 million. While the remuneration policy permits a threshold payment of 20% of maximum payable, 
the Committee decided not to set such a target concerning Mountie revenue. Had the target Mountie revenue of £112.0 
million not been achieved, no bonus would have been payable concerning this metric. 
 
 
1 The adjusted profit before tax and before bonus figure of £30.4 m illion reflects the adjusted profit before tax and after bonus figure of £30.1 million.
Accordingly, each Executive Director earned a bonus equal to 82.3% of his/her salary in respect of 2015. 
Salary and fees The total salaries and fees paid in respect of that year. John Hartz and Richard 
Swann served as Directors until 16 June 2014 and the Company was billed in 
respect of their fees and expenses by Inflexion Private Equity LLP.
Benefits Value of benefits received in the year, comprising private medical insurance and 
car allowance.
Annual bonus The cash value of the bonuses earned in respect of the financial year, both pre and 
post Admission in respect of 2014. 
Long term incentives (“LTI”) The value of LTI awards that vested in respect of that year (£nil for 2015 and 2014). 
Pension The cash value of Company pension contributions paid on behalf of the Executive 
Directors as part of the Company’s defined contribution scheme.
Other The value of the Joint Share Ownership Plan (“JSOP”) shares that were transferred 
on Admission. These shares are valued at a price of £2.87, the offer price at 
Admission.
Weighting
Threshold  
(20% of 
maximum 
payable)
Target 
(50% of 
maximum 
payable)
Stretch 
(100% of 
maximum 
payable)
Actual 
performance
Bonus earned 
(percentage 
of maximum 
payable)
Adjusted profit before 
tax and before bonus
80% n/a
£28.4m
£31.9m £30.4m
1
57.7%
Mountie revenue 20% n/a £112.0m £120.0m £119.4m 92.6%
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
59
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Long term incentive awards vesting in 2015 
No long term incentives vested in respect of a performance period ending during the year.
Total pension entitlements
Executive Directors participate in a defined contribution scheme to which the Company contributes an amount equivalent 
to 3% of salary. 
Payments made to former Directors during the year
No payments were made in the year to any former Director of the Company.
Payments for loss of office made during the year
No payments for loss of office were made in the year to any Director of the Company.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests
The current Executive Directors have shareholdings with values significantly in excess of two times’ salary, reflecting 
the Company’s historic culture of share ownership and entrepreneurialism. The Committee has also adopted a formal 
shareholding guideline of 100% of salary; while not relevant for the existing Directors given their significant holdings, the 
Committee will keep the level of this guideline under review. Newly appointed Executive Directors will normally be given 
three years to reach the shareholding guideline, subject to their individual circumstances.
The interests as at 31 December 2015
1
 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
1
 In the case of Jonathan Brooks, the number and value of shares are stated as at 30 October 2015, the date on which he stepped down from the Board. 
2
 Calculated based on the closing share price of 522.5 pence on 31 December 2015.
3
 Calculated on base salary at 31 December 2015.
Ordinary shares 
as at 
31 December 2015
Number
Ordinary shares 
value as at  
31 December 2015
£000
2
Value
(x base salary
3
)
Ordinary shares as 
at 8 March 2016
Number
Executive Directors
Rod Flavell 8,201,255 42,852 122.4 8,201,255
Sheila Flavell 8,201,254 42,852 164.8 8,201,254
Mike McLaren 499,295 2,609 11.9 499,295
Andy Brown 4,540,801 23,726 91.3 4,540,801
Non-Executive Directors
Ivan Martin – – – –
Robin Taylor 5,226 27 0.7 5,226
Peter Whiting 10,453 55 1.2 10,453
Former Directors
Jonathan Brooks – – – –
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
60
 
There have been no changes in the Directors’ holdings in the share capital of the Company between 31 December 2015 
and the date the financial statements were approved.
Each Executive Director also holds awards under the Company’s PSP. All awards held by the Executive Directors were 
granted in 2015 and remain unvested, with vesting subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. Details of the 
awards granted are disclosed below.
Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2015
Each Executive Director was granted awards under the Company’s 2014 PSP on 20 April 2015 as set out below, which 
enables the Executive Director to benefit from the value of up to 50,000 shares subject to the satisfaction of performance 
conditions based on compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share. 
Each Executive Director was granted an award over the same number of shares.
1
 Each award was granted as an “Approved PSP” award to take account of potential tax advantages for the participant and Company. In addition to the PSP 
award and tax qualifying option, each Executive Director was granted a “Linked Award” under the PSP which is principally to fund the exercise price of 
the option. If the tax qualifying option is exercised at a gain, the Linked Award will be exercisable over such number of shares as have a market value at 
the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price of the tax qualifying option. If the tax qualifying option is not capable of exercise at a gain and 
is released, the Linked Award may be exercised in respect of up to 9,063 shares, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions.
The face value of the award is calculated by multiplying the number of shares subject to the tax qualifying option and 
the PSP award in total (50,000) by £3.31 being the average share price over the three business days preceding the date 
of grant which was used to determine the exercise price of the tax qualifying option. As the Linked Award is principally to 
fund the exercise price of the tax qualifying option, it is not taken into account for these purposes. In practice, the value 
of the award is the same as if only a PSP award over 50,000 shares was awarded. 
The awards will vest based on compound annual EPS growth in line with the following schedule:
 
2
 The Committee has discretion to adjust EPS for the purposes of the PSP where it considers it appropriate to do so (for example to reflect a material 
acquisition and/ or divestment of a Group business) and to assess performance on a fair and consistent basis from year to year.
The extent to which the awards vest (other than, in accordance with the requirements of the applicable tax legislation, any 
tax qualifying option) will be subject to the Committee’s assessment of the overall financial performance of the Company 
during the performance period. Final levels of vesting may be reduced should the Committee feel that these do not 
reflect the performance of the Company.
Award
1
Number of shares Exercise price per share Face value of award
PSP award 40,937 £0.01
£165,500
Tax qualifying option 9,063 £3.31
Compound annual growth in adjusted
2
 EPS Percentage of the award that will vest
10% p.a. 25%
Greater than 10% p.a. but less than 17% p.a. Determined on a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
17% p.a. or greater 100%
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
61
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Implementation of the Directors’ remuneration policy for 2016
Base salary and fees
The Executive Directors’ salaries were increased with effect from 1 January 2016 as discussed in the statement from the 
Chairman on page 55.
The Chairman’s fee was subject to a £6,000 increase with effect from 1 January 2016 and the other Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees were subject to a £2,000 increase with effect from 1 January 2016. A fee of £5,000 was introduced for the 
role of the Senior Independent Director.
Accordingly, the salaries and fees for 2016 are as set out below:
 
Annual bonus for 2016
In line with the policy set out on pages 64 to 73 the maximum annual bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors for 2016 
is 100% of salary, 80% of the bonus opportunity will be dependent on adjusted group profit before tax, with the remaining 
20% based on Mountie revenue. The Committee considers that the details of the 2016 targets are commercially sensitive 
and they are not disclosed in this report, however the 2016 targets will be disclosed in next year’s report. 
Long Term Incentives for 2016
The Committee proposes to grant awards under the PSP in respect of 2016. In accordance with the approved Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, the maximum quantum of award granted to any Executive Director will be up to 100% of salary.
The vesting of the awards will be subject to performance conditions based on compound annual growth in adjusted 
earnings per share over the three year performance period, with the targets and vesting schedule being the same as for 
the awards granted in 2015.
Base annual salary
Rod Flavell (Chief Executive Officer) £367,500
Sheila Flavell (Chief Operating Officer) £273,000
Mike McLaren (Chief Financial Officer) £262,500
Andy Brown (Group Commercial Director) £273,000
Annual fee
Ivan Martin (Chairman) £126,000
Non-Executive Director £42,000
Senior Independent Director £5,000
Committee Chairman £5,000
Governance Total Shareholder Return (rebased to 100)
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
200
Jun 14 Aug 14 Oct 14 Dec 14 Feb 15 Apr 15 Jun 15 Aug 15 Oct 15 Dec 15
 FDM  FTSE Small Cap
FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
62
Performance graph and historical Chief Executive Officer remuneration outcomes
The graph below shows the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance since the date of listing compared 
to the FTSE Small Cap Index which has been chosen as the Company is a member of that index.
 
The table below details the total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting (as a percentage of the maximum opportunity) 
for the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) for the last six years. Note that for 2015 this is the remuneration received for the whole 
of 2015 and so is not directly comparable to the TSR performance chart above, which is for the period from 20 June 2014.
 
 
Change in CEO remuneration in relation to the wider workforce
The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO and the wider workforce 
between 2014 and 2015. For these purposes, the wider workforce includes all UK employees excluding Mounties, and also 
excludes employees based overseas in order to exclude the effects of fluctuating exchange rates. Mounties have been 
excluded from the UK wider workforce numbers to ensure a more meaningful comparison to the CEO’s remuneration as 
their remuneration is not subject to the same annual review process as the rest of the UK workforce.
 
1 For these purposes, the salaries applying as at December 2015 are compared with the salaries as at December 2014 (rather than the salaries earned over 
those years). In the single figure table on page 57, the CEO’s salary for 2015 is greater than his salary for 2014, which reflects the increase in his salary with 
effect from Admission during 2014.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Total remuneration (£000) 455.2 639.2 686.2 547.7 658.5 668.1
Annual bonus as a % of 
maximum opportunity
100% 100% 100% 68% 55% 82%
Remuneration Report
Percentage change CEO Wider workforce
Salary
1
0.0% 4.8%
Taxable benefits 1.0% 0.0%
Annual bonus 88.3% 11.3% FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
63
Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Spend on pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and the overall expenditure on pay (as a whole across 
the organisation). 
 
 
Statement of voting from last AGM
At the AGM held on 30 April 2015, the Board’s resolutions in relation to remuneration received strong support from 
shareholders. The results of the vote on the various remuneration resolutions are set out below:
Advisors
During the financial year, the Committee received independent advice from Deloitte LLP, who were appointed by the 
Committee, in relation to the Committee’s consideration of matters relating to Directors’ Remuneration. Deloitte LLP were 
appointed in 2014 following a formal tender process. Fees for advice provided to the Remuneration Committee during 
the year were £6,300. Fees were charged on a time and disbursements basis. 
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates under its code of conduct in 
its dealing with the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee continued to review the appointment of 
Deloitte LLP and is satisfied that all advice received was objective and independent.
Resolution Votes for % of votes 
for
Votes 
against
% of votes 
against
Votes 
withheld
Approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy
87,035,109 98.46% 1,359,484 1.54% 0
Approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report
87,374,625 98.85% 1,019,968 1.15% 0
Year ended  
31 December 2014 
£000
Year ended  
31 December 2015 
£000 Percentage change
Dividends – 16,665 n/a
Overall expenditure on pay 58,900 78,487 33%
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
64
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 30 April 2015. The 
policy as approved is set out below except that we have not repeated the charts illustrating the application of the policy 
in 2015, as these are historic, and we have updated date specific references. The full policy as approved at the 2015 AGM 
is available on the Company’s website at www.fdmgroup.com.
Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary
Core element of fixed 
remuneration to reflect the 
individual’s role and experience 
as part of a broadly market 
competitive total remuneration 
package, to enable the Group 
to recruit and maintain the 
required skills and expertise to 
enable it to achieve its strategy.
Salary levels are determined 
taking into account a range of 
factors, which may include (but 
are not limited to):
• Underlying Group 
performance;
• The size and scope of the 
Executive Director’s role and 
responsibilities;
• The Executive Director’s 
skill, experience and 
performance;
• Salary levels for equivalent 
roles at other listed 
companies of a similar size 
and/ or complexity to the 
Group; and
• Pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group.
Whilst there is no maximum 
salary level, salary increases 
will normally be in line with the 
wider workforce in percentage 
of salary terms.
Salary increases above this 
level may be awarded in 
certain circumstances, such as:
• Where an Executive Director 
has been promoted or has 
had a change in scope or 
responsibility;
• To reflect an individual’s 
development or 
performance in role (e.g. a 
newly appointed Executive 
Director being moved to 
align with the market over 
time);
• Where there has been a 
change in market practice; 
or
• Where there has been a 
change in the size and/ or 
complexity of the business.
Such increases may be 
implemented over such time 
period as the Committee 
deems appropriate.
Not applicable.
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
65
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
Executive Directors (continued)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Benefits
To provide benefits as part of 
a broadly market competitive 
total remuneration package.
Executive Directors receive 
benefits set at an appropriate 
level taking into account total 
remuneration, market practice, 
the benefits provided to other 
employees in the Group and 
individual circumstances. 
Benefits provided currently 
include car allowances and 
private health insurance.
Other benefits may be 
provided based on individual 
circumstances. These 
may include, for example, 
relocation expenses and 
expatriate allowances.
Whilst the Committee has not 
set an absolute maximum on 
the level of benefits Executive 
Directors may receive, the 
value of benefits is set at a 
level which the Committee 
considers to be appropriately 
positioned taking into 
account relevant market 
levels based on the nature 
and location of the role, the 
level of benefits provided for 
other employees in the Group 
and individual circumstances.
Not applicable.
Retirement benefits
To provide an appropriate 
level of retirement benefit (or 
cash allowance equivalent) 
as part of a broadly 
market competitive total 
remuneration package.
Executive Directors are eligible 
to participate in the Company’s 
defined contribution scheme.
In appropriate circumstances, 
such as where contributions 
exceed the annual or 
lifetime allowance, Executive 
Directors may take a taxable 
cash supplement instead of 
contributions to a pension 
plan.
Maximum company pension 
contribution (or cash allowance 
equivalent) for existing 
Executive Directors of 3% of 
salary.
However, the Committee may 
permit a higher company 
pension contribution (or cash 
allowance equivalent) for any 
new Executive Director.
Not applicable.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
66
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Annual bonus
Rewards Executive Directors 
for achieving financial, strategic 
and/ or individual targets in 
the relevant year, to provide 
an incentive for the Group’s 
employees to achieve goals 
aligned with the Group’s 
strategy.
Performance measures 
and targets are reviewed 
annually and pay-out levels are 
determined by the Committee 
after the year end based on 
performance against the 
targets.
The Committee has discretion 
to amend the pay-out should 
any formulaic outcome not 
reflect the Committee’s 
assessment of overall business 
performance.
Recovery 
For up to three years 
following the payment of 
an annual bonus award, the 
Committee may require the 
repayment of some or the 
entire award in the event of 
fraud or dishonesty leading 
to a material misstatement of 
financial results.
Maximum bonus opportunity 
for Executive Directors is 100% 
of base salary.
Performance measures 
and targets are set annually 
reflecting the Company’s 
strategy and aligned with key 
financial, strategic and/ or 
individual targets.
Pay-out of up to 20% of 
maximum for threshold 
performance (the minimum 
level of performance resulting 
in any payment), 50% of 
maximum for on-target 
performance and full pay-out 
for stretch performance with 
straight-line vesting in between 
each of the points.
At least 80% of the bonus 
will be assessed against 
key financial performance 
measures which may include 
revenue, pre-tax profit or other 
key financial performance 
metrics of the Company. The 
balance of the bonus may be 
assessed against non-financial 
strategic measures and/ or 
individual performance.
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
67
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
 
Executive Directors (continued)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
PSP
To incentivise Executive 
Directors over the longer term, 
and to deliver performance-
related pay, with a clear line of 
sight for Executives and direct 
alignment with shareholders’ 
interests.
Long-term incentive awards 
are granted under the PSP 
which was approved on  
16 June 2014. Awards under 
the PSP will typically be 
granted as a conditional award 
or the grant of a nil-cost option, 
in either case vesting subject to 
the achievement of specified 
performance conditions, over a 
period of at least three years.
Awards may be settled in cash 
(or granted as a cash award 
over a notional number of 
shares) at the discretion of the 
Committee.
Awards under the PSP may 
be granted on the basis that 
the number of shares shall be 
increased to reflect dividends 
paid over the vesting period, 
or the Committee may make a 
cash payment equal to those 
dividends on release of the 
shares.
The usual maximum award 
level under the PSP in respect 
of any financial year for 
Executive Directors is awards 
over shares with a value of 
100% of salary.
In certain circumstances, the 
Committee may grant awards 
under the PSP in respect of 
any financial year for Executive 
Directors up to a maximum of 
200% of salary.
The Committee may at its 
discretion structure awards 
as Approved Performance 
Share Plan (“APSP”) awards 
to enable the participant and 
the Company to benefit from 
HMRC approved option tax 
treatment in respect of part of 
the award, without increasing 
the pre-tax value delivered to 
participants. APSP awards may 
be structured as an approved 
option up to the HMRC limit 
(currently £30,000) and a PSP 
share award, with the share 
award scaled back to take 
account of any gain made 
on exercise of the approved 
option.
Performance will be 
assessed against challenging 
performance targets.
Performance will be based 
typically on financial measures 
including, but not limited to, 
absolute EPS growth.
Awards (other than, in 
accordance with the 
requirements of the applicable 
tax legislation, any approved 
option granted as part of 
an APSP award) will also be 
subject to a financial underpin 
such that PSP awards will 
only vest if the Committee 
is satisfied with the overall 
performance of the Company.
Performance measures (and 
their weighting where there 
is more than one measure) 
are reviewed annually to 
maintain appropriateness and 
relevance.
For threshold performance 
25% of the award will vest, 
rising to 100% of the award 
vesting for maximum 
performance with straight-line 
vesting in between. Below 
threshold performance, the 
award will not vest.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
68
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
PSP (continued)
The Committee may at its discretion structure 
awards as APSP awards comprising both a 
HMRC tax-favoured option granted under the 
Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”) and a 
PSP award. APSP awards enable an Executive 
Director and the Company to benefit from 
HMRC tax-favoured option treatment in respect 
of part of the award without increasing the pre-
tax value delivered to participants.
APSP awards would be structured as a tax-
favoured option and a PSP award, with the 
vesting of the PSP award scaled back to take 
account of any gain made on exercise of the 
tax-favoured option.
Other than to enable the grant of APSP awards, 
the Company will not grant awards to Executive 
Directors under the CSOP.
Recovery 
At the discretion of the Committee, unvested 
awards could be reduced, cancelled or 
have further conditions imposed in certain 
circumstances including (but not limited to):
• A material misstatement of the Company’s 
audited financial results;
• A material failure of risk management by the 
Company or any subsidiary company within 
the Group; or
• A material miscalculation of any performance 
measure.
For up to three years following the vesting of 
an award, the Committee may require the 
repayment of some or the entire award in 
the event of fraud or dishonesty leading to a 
material misstatement of financial results.
Where a tax-favoured option 
is granted as part of an APSP 
award, the same performance 
conditions will apply to the tax-
favoured option as apply to the 
PSP award.
 
 
Save as set out in the table above in relation to the annual bonus and PSP, there are no provisions for the recovery or withholding of any element of remuneration.
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
69
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
 
Information supporting the policy table
Explanation of performance measures chosen
Performance measures for the annual bonus and PSP awards which reflect the Company’s strategy are selected. 
Stretching performance targets are set each year by the Committee taking into account a number of different factors.
The annual bonus can be assessed against financial, strategic and/ or individual targets determined by the Committee 
with at least 80% subject to key financial targets. The Committee considers financial measures like profit before tax and 
revenue to be important performance metrics because they encourage behaviours that facilitate profitable growth and 
the successful future strategic development of the business.
Long-term performance measures are chosen by the Committee to provide a robust and transparent basis on which to 
measure the Company’s performance over the longer term and to provide alignment with the business strategy. They 
are selected to be aligned with the interests of shareholders and to drive business performance. Currently absolute EPS 
growth is considered to be a key measure of success as it encapsulates the outcomes of many of the strategic drivers of 
the business, and helps align management incentives with growth in shareholder value.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust or set different performance measures or targets where it considers it 
appropriate to do so (for example, to reflect a change in strategy, a material acquisition and/ or a divestment of a Group 
business or a change in prevailing market conditions) and to assess performance on a fair and consistent basis from year 
to year.
Operation of the PSP
The PSP will be operated by the Committee in accordance with the plan rules, including the ability to adjust the number 
of shares subject to awards in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue 
or other event which may, in the opinion of the Committee, affect the current or future value of shares.
Early vesting of awards
Awards may vest earlier than anticipated in “good leaver” circumstances, as determined by the Committee at their 
discretion. In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event (such as a demerger, 
delisting, special dividend or other event which may affect the value of an award), awards under the PSP may vest in 
accordance with the rules of the PSP. The Committee shall determine the extent of vesting taking into account the extent 
to which the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Such vesting would ordinarily be on a time pro rata basis 
although the Committee has discretion not to apply time prorating.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
70
Remuneration Report
Non-Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Other items
 
To enable the Company to attract and 
retain Non-Executive Directors of the 
required calibre by offering market 
competitive rates.
 
The Chairman is paid a basic Chairman fee and additional 
fees for chairmanship of any Board Committees.
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee and additional 
fees for chairmanship of any Board Committees.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and the fees of the other Non-Executive 
Directors are determined by the Board.
Fees are based on the time commitment and 
contribution expected for the role and the level of fees 
paid to Non-Executive Directors serving on the board of 
similar-sized UK listed companies.
Overall fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain 
within the limit of £1.0 million per annum set by the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
 
Non-Executive Directors may 
be eligible to be reimbursed 
travel and subsistence costs 
incurred in the performance of 
their duties.
The Non-Executive Directors 
do not participate in the 
Company’s annual bonus, 
share plans or pension 
schemes or other benefit in 
kind arrangements.
Policy for the remuneration of employees more generally
The Group aims to provide a remuneration package that is competitive in an employee’s country of employment and 
which is appropriate to promote the long term success of the Group. The Group intends to apply this policy fairly and 
consistently and does not intend to pay more than is necessary to attract and motivate staff. In respect of Executive 
Directors, a greater proportion of the remuneration package is “at risk” and determined by reference to performance 
conditions.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will seek to align the remuneration package with the above policy.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee may include other elements of pay which 
it considers are appropriate and necessary to recruit and retain the individual. However, this discretion is capped and is 
subject to the limits referred to below:
• Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Director being appointed. This may 
include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and/ or responsibilities, 
subject to good performance, where it is considered appropriate;
• Benefits will only be provided in line with the above policy;
• Pension contributions may be made above the limit for the existing Executive Directors (3% of salary) up to a 
maximum of 15%. This flexibility recognises that future Executive Directors will not have the same significant levels of 
shareholding in the Company as the existing Executive Directors and additional pension benefits may be needed in 
order to offer a competitive remuneration package; FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
71
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
 
Approach to recruitment remuneration (continued)
• The Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments (for example a “guaranteed sign-on 
bonus” or “golden hello”);
• Other elements may be included in the following circumstances:
 - An interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short term basis;
 - If exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive  
 function on a short term basis;
 - If an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year then it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or  
 long term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance. Subject to  
 the limit on variable remuneration set out below, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the  
 year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis; or
 - If the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Company’s policy to allow    
      reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments. Any such payments will be at the discretion of the   
         Committee;
• The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period of the annual bonus 
or PSP, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale of 
any such alterations will be clearly explained in the next Directors’ Remuneration Report; and
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted (excluding buyout awards as referred to below) is 
300% of salary, in line with the Policy table set out on pages 64 to 68.
The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to buyout remuneration arrangements 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any 
performance conditions attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested or 
been paid. The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards or payments on a comparable basis to the 
remuneration arrangements forfeited. Any such payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable 
remuneration referred to above. Buyout awards will ordinarily be granted on the basis that they are subject to forfeiture 
or “clawback” in the event of departure within 12 months of joining the Company, although the Committee will retain 
discretion not to apply forfeiture or clawback in appropriate circumstances.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share plans. If 
necessary and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be 
allowed to continue in accordance with their terms.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the policy in place at the time 
of appointment.
Letters of appointment for the Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal 
business hours at the Company’s registered office.
Service contracts
Each Executive Director has a service contract with the Company which may be terminated by the Company or Director 
by giving 12 months’ notice. This notice period is considered appropriate to the Company. Each Non-Executive Director 
has a letter of appointment with the Company which may be terminated by the Company or Director by giving three 
months’ notice.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
72
Details of the Directors’ service contracts (or letter of appointment in the case of a Non-Executive Director), notice periods 
and, where applicable, expiry dates, are set out below:
 
Payments for loss of office
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are set out below:
Payment in lieu of notice
Each Executive Director’s service contract contains provision for payment in lieu of notice at the discretion of the Company. 
Such payment would consist of basic salary plus benefits only for the notice period (or the balance of the notice period if 
relevant) together with any accrued but untaken holiday pay entitlement.
Annual bonus
This will be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and the decision as to whether or not to award a 
bonus in full or in part will be dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the individual’s departure 
and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question. Any bonus amounts paid will be prorated for 
time in service during the bonus period and will be paid at the usual time (although the Committee retains discretion to 
pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances).
PSP 
The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of the PSP. Unvested 
awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment. However, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, 
determine that on cessation of employment an award that has not yet vested will vest at cessation or at the normal vesting 
date. In either case, the extent of vesting will be determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the 
performance condition is satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time elapsed from the 
date of grant to the date of cessation. Awards may then be exercised during such period as the Committee determines.
If an award has vested prior to an individual’s cessation of employment, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, 
allow the award to be exercised for such period as the Committee determines.
Name Commencement Expiry Notice period
Rod Flavell 20 June 2014 – 12 months
Sheila Flavell 20 June 2014 – 12 months
Mike McLaren 20 June 2014 – 12 months
Andy Brown 20 June 2014 – 12 months
Ivan Martin 20 June 2014 – 3 months
Peter Whiting 20 June 2014 – 3 months
Robin Taylor 20 June 2014 – 3 months
Michelle Senecal de Fonseca 15 January 2016 – 3 months
Remuneration Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
73
Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
 
Other payments
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of outplacement and legal fees. Where a buy-out 
award is made, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award. The Committee reserves the right to 
make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation 
(or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in 
connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment.
Existing contractual arrangements
The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in 
this report:
• Where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect;
• Where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company 
and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of 
the Company; 
• To satisfy contractual commitments; or
• Under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, “payments” includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award 
over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when considering the 
Directors’ remuneration. When considering base salary increases, the Committee reviews overall levels of base pay 
increases offered to other employees. Employees are not actively consulted on Directors’ remuneration. Employee share 
ownership is fundamental to the Company’s culture and is reflected in the wide participation in our share incentive plans.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on Directors’ 
remuneration. The Committee intends to consult with shareholders in respect of any significant changes to the Director 
remuneration arrangements.
Approval
This Report was approved by the Board on 8 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Peter Whiting 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
 
8 March 2016
Remuneration Report Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
74
The Directors present the Directors’ Report and audited Consolidated Financial Statements of FDM Group (Holdings) plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of professional services focusing principally on Information Technology. 
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 31 provides a review of the Group’s performance during the financial year as well as 
its future prospects.
Results and dividends
The Group reported a profit after tax for the year of £22.0 million (2014: £13.5 million). Results for the year are set out in 
the Consolidated Income Statement on page 85.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.5 pence per share and a special dividend of 5.0 pence per share. Subject to 
shareholder approval, both of these dividends will be paid on 3 June 2016 to shareholders of record on 13 May 2016. An 
interim dividend of 8.0 pence per share was declared by the Directors on 28 July 2015 and was paid on 25 September 
2015 to holders of record on 21 August 2015. An interim dividend of 7.5 pence per share in respect of the period from 
Admission of the Company’s shares to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 
2014 was paid on 12 June 2015.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements 
unless otherwise stated, were:
The biographies of the currently serving Directors are provided on pages 33 and 34 of this report.
Director share interests
Details of the interests of Directors in the shares of the Company are provided on page 59 of this report.
Director long term inventive schemes
For the purposes of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules section 9.8.4C R, details of the Group’s long term incentive 
schemes are disclosed in the Remuneration Report starting on page 53. All other information required to be disclosed by 
Listing Rule section 9.8.4 R is not applicable for the year under review.
Directors’ indemnity and liability insurance
As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party 
indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in force throughout the 
last financial year and is currently in force. The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors. 
Ivan Martin Non-Executive Chairman
Roderick Flavell Chief Executive Officer
Sheila Flavell Chief Operating Officer
Michael McLaren Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Brown Group Commercial Director
Peter Whiting Non-Executive Director
Robin Taylor Non-Executive Director
Michelle Senecal de Fonseca Non-Executive Director - appointed 15 January 2016
Jonathan Brooks Non-Executive Director - resigned 30 October 2015
Directors’ Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
75
Risk management objectives and policies
The Group through its operations is exposed to a number of risks. Details of the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies are set out in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The principal risks that the Group 
faces are set out on pages 20 to 22 of the Strategic Report.
Corporate Governance
For details of the Corporate Governance Report see pages 35 to 43. The Corporate Social Responsibility report, on pages 
29 to 31, includes information about the Group’s employment policies and greenhouse gas emissions.
Branches outside the UK
The Group continues to operate one branch in France. 
Substantial shareholders
As at 31 December 2015 and as at 29 February 2016, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, of the following notifiable interests (whether directly or 
indirectly held) in 3% or more of its voting rights:
As at 31 December 2015 As at 29 February 2016
Substantial shareholder
Direct/ indirect 
interest
Number of 
shares
% of issued 
share capital 
Number of 
shares
% of issued 
share capital
Columbia Threadneedle 
Investments
Indirect 9,540,067 8.9 9,536,762 8.9
Roderick Flavell Direct 8,201,255 7.6 8,201,255 7.6
Sheila Flavell Direct 8,201,254 7.6 8,201,254 7.6
Standard Life Investments Indirect 7,644,351 7.1 8,177,727 7.6
Majedie Asset Management Indirect 4,669,910 4.3 4,614,611 4.3
Andrew Brown Direct 4,540,801 4.2 4,540,801 4.2
River & Mercantile Asset 
Management
Indirect 4,055,056 3.8 3,608,633 3.4
AXA Investment Managers Indirect 4,013,553 3.7 4,043,717 3.8
Old Mutual Global Investors Indirect 4,005,184 3.7 4,298,334 4.0
Independent Investment Trust Direct 4,000,000 3.7 3,797,500 3.5
Investec Asset Management Direct 3,853,040 3.6 3,610,086 3.4
Artemis Investment Management Indirect 3,496,271 3.3 3,387,060 3.2
Invesco Asset Management Direct 3,325,252 3.1 3,325,252 3.1
Unicorn Asset Management Indirect 3,101,000 2.9 3,254,042 3.0
 
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
76
Political donations
The Group made no political donations in the year (2014: £nil).
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are summarised in the Strategic Report. The principal risks, uncertainties and risk management processes are 
also described in the Strategic Report. 
The Group’s continued and forecast global growth, positive operating cash flow and liquidity position, together with its 
distinctive business model and infrastructure, enables the Group to manage its business risks successfully. The Group’s 
forecasts and projections show that it will continue to operate with adequate cash resources and within the current 
working capital facilities. The Group passed all bank covenants tested in the year and forecasts that all covenants will be 
passed for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing this Annual Report.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of the Group’s compliance with legislation relating to greenhouse gas emissions are set out on page 31 in the 
Corporate Social Responsibility report.
Employee information
Information on the Group’s employee policies is included on page 29 in the Corporate Social Responsibility report.
Capital structure
The Group’s capital structure is detailed in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Change of control
The Group has agreements in place with certain of its banking customers that give the bank the right to terminate the 
contract on a change of control following a takeover bid for the Group. In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit 
Facility (“RCF”) with HSBC Bank plc, which contains a clause such that HSBC Bank plc has the right to terminate the facility 
upon a change of control of the Group.
The Group has no agreements with employees or Directors that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs resulting from a takeover bid. 
The Group knows of no agreements under which holders of securities in the Company may restrict votes or transfers in 
the Company’s shares.
Directors’ Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
77
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events to report since the date of the balance sheet.
Related party transactions
The Group’s related party transactions are detailed in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Independent auditors
In accordance with Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, including the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”s) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”). Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements;
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and 
the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess a company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Governance FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
78
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 33 and 34, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
• the Strategic Report contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, Directors’ reports shall include a statement, in the case of each 
Director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved, that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of FDM Group (Holdings) plc on 8 March 2016 and 
signed on its behalf by:
 
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2016 
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2016 
Directors’ Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
79
Report on the group financial statements 
 
Our opinion
In our opinion, FDM Group (Holdings) plc’s group financial statements (the “financial statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European 
Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
• the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015;
• the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended;
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union. 
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Financial Statements
• Revenue recognition in respect of uninvoiced amounts.
• Share option plan expense.
• The group financial statements are a consolidation of 13 reporting units. 
• We performed full scope audits of the UK and USA operating reporting units.
• We audited the revenue, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalent balances of the 
Germany and Switzerland trading reporting units.
• We also performed full scope audits of the centralised functions in the UK, comprising the parent 
and intermediate holding companies.
• Our full scope audits covered 87% of revenue (with a further 6% coverage obtained through our 
work on the Germany and Switzerland reporting units) and 91% of adjusted profit before tax.
• Overall group materiality: £1,500,000 which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
80
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Revenue recognition in respect of uninvoiced amounts
 
 
Refer to note 3.3 (b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the 
directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies and page 49 
(‘Significant financial reporting items’) within the Audit Committee 
Report.
At the year-end, revenue is accrued for work performed that has 
not yet been invoiced. Within this estimate, revenue is recognised 
for contracts either where services have been provided but 
customer purchase orders have not yet been finalised, or where 
consultants’ timesheets have not yet been approved by the 
customer or have not been received by the group.
There is some judgement in the recognition of this revenue, in 
order to estimate the amount of work performed by consultants 
before receipt of approved timesheets or purchase orders, which 
could lead to an under or overstatement of revenue and profit, 
whether intentionally or in error.
 
 
We gained an understanding from management of the key 
assumptions underpinning the year end sales adjustments and 
compared these assumptions with the prior year.
 
We evaluated management’s estimate for unreceived timesheets 
by comparing a sample of estimated timesheets to the timesheet 
received post year end. We found the estimate to be appropriate.
We substantively tested the year end adjustment for timesheets 
received but not invoiced by agreeing to subsequent cash receipt 
or customer approval, in order to identify any inappropriate 
recognition of revenue, noting no material exceptions in our 
testing.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk 
of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order 
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be 
read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Share option plan expenses
Refer to notes 3.3 (n) and 4 to the Consolidated Financial statements 
for the directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates, and page 49 (‘Significant financial 
reporting items’) within the Audit Committee Report.
During the year, the group has implemented a share option plan 
for management and senior employees. The assumptions used 
in calculating the charge recognised in the income statement are 
judgemental and complex, including an estimate of the number 
of leavers from the scheme in each period as well as an estimate 
of the future growth in adjusted earnings per share of the group 
(refer to page 60 (‘Annual Report on Remuneration’) for details on 
the share option plan).
These judgements could lead to an under or overstatement of the 
share option plan expense, whether intentionally or in error.
We gained an understanding from management of the key 
assumptions underpinning the share option valuation model.
We evaluated the assumption made by management for forecast 
growth in adjusted earnings per share by comparing to recent 
historical performance as well as reviewing budgets and forecasts 
approved by the Board of Directors, and found it to be appropriate.
We evaluated management’s assumption for the number of 
leavers from the scheme by comparing to historical leavers from 
the scheme, and found it to be appropriate.
We evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management 
to assess the potential impact of changes in key assumptions, 
noting that a significant change in the assumptions would 
be needed to cause a material error in the share option plan 
expense. We concluded that stress testing these assumptions did 
not have a material impact on the income statement charge.
We checked the mathematical integrity of the model, and found 
it to be accurate.
We tested a sample of options granted to deeds of grant and 
leavers from the scheme to resignation letters, noting no 
exceptions in our testing.
We also considered the disclosures made in note 25 to the 
financial statements and determined that they are consistent 
with the requirements of accounting standards. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
81
Financial Statements
Report on the group financial statements (continued)
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in 
which the group operates. 
The group is structured by division, with significant reporting units in the UK and USA, and further smaller reporting units in locations 
across Europe, Canada, Asia and South Africa. The group financial statements are a consolidation of 13 reporting units, comprising 
the group’s operating businesses and centralised functions.
The accounting and financial management for all reporting units is controlled from the UK, so we as the group engagement team 
have performed all audit work. 
We determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units to be able to conclude that sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. Accordingly, we determined 
that audits of the complete financial information were required for four reporting units, comprising the UK and USA trading reporting 
units and the parent and intermediate holding companies (which contain, amongst other balances, the group’s borrowing facilities 
and central costs). To support our work on the USA reporting unit, we visited the group’s offices in New York, where we met with 
local management and inspected original copies of certain documents. We also included in our audit scope the revenue, trade and 
other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the next two largest reporting units, being Germany and Switzerland, which we 
performed from the group’s head office in the UK, where the accounting is administered. Finally, following discussion with the Audit 
Committee and group Management, we performed certain specified procedures on the Canada reporting unit, where growth is 
accelerating rapidly. To facilitate the performance of some of these procedures, we visited the group’s offices in Toronto, where we 
met with local management and inspected original copies of certain documents.
As a result, full scope audit procedures were conducted on reporting units representing 91% of the group’s adjusted profit before tax 
and 87% of revenue, with a further 6% coverage of revenue obtained through our work on the Germany and Switzerland reporting units.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
 
Overall group materiality £1,500,000 (2014: £1,200,000).
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Rationale for  
benchmark applied
We believe that adjusted profit before tax provides us with the most appropriate basis for 
determining materiality as we believe this aligns with the principal consideration of the 
shareholders of the company.
Our benchmark is consistent with the prior year, except in the prior year adjusted profit before tax 
also included the removal of one-off IPO transaction costs.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £70,000 (2014: 
£60,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
82
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Going concern 
 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 76, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to 
the directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that 
the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have 
concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can 
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
 
Other required reporting
 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out pages 35 to 43 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of 
the group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to 
report.
• the statement given by the directors on page 41, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to 
assess the group’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to 
report.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 47 to 51, as required by provision C.3.8 of the 
Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to 
report. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
83
Financial Statements
Other required reporting (continued)
 
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks 
that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in 
relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on pages 18 to 22 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision 
C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• the directors’ explanation on page 23 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 
of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to 
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group. Our review was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting 
their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether 
the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been 
prepared by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of 
the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
84
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on pages 77 to 78, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
 
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
 
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of FDM Group (Holdings) plc for the year ended 31 December 
2015 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Jaskamal Sarai (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
8 March 2016
Independent auditors’ report to the members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
85
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Revenue 6 160,656 123,257
Cost of sales (97,207) (74,859)
Gross profit 63,449 48,398
Administrative expenses (33,932) (23,530)
Exceptional administrative expenses 10 –) (5,412)
Total administrative expenses (33,932) (28,942)
Operating profit 7 29,517 19,456
Financial income 11 16 4
Financial expense 11 (168) (490)
Net finance expense (152) (486)
Analysis of profit before income tax
Operating profit before exceptional Items 29,517 24,868
Exceptional items 10 –) (5,412)
Net finance expense (152) (486)
Profit before income tax 29,365 18,970
Taxation 12 (7,344) (5,473)
Profit for the year 22,021 13,497
Earnings per ordinary share
2015
pence
2014
pence
Basic and diluted 13 20.5 12.7
The results for the year shown above arise from continuing operations.
The notes on pages 90 to 116 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Income Statement FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
86
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit for the financial year 22,021 13,497
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (net of tax)
(67) 97
Total other comprehensive (expense)/ income (67) 97
Total comprehensive income recognised for the year 21,954 13,594
The notes on pages 90 to 116 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
87
Financial Statements
as at 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 4,264 2,522
Intangible assets 15 19,550 19,429
Deferred income tax assets 20 173 –)
23,987 21,951
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 24,593 25,072
Cash and cash equivalents 18 22,360 12,287
46,953 37,359
Total assets 70,940 59,310
Non-current liabilities
Deferred income tax liabilities 20 282 259
282 259
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 19,168 14,013
Current income tax liabilities 3,089 2,515
22,257 16,528
Total liabilities 22,539 16,787
Net assets 48,401 42,523
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 22 1,075 1,127
Share premium 7,873 8,364
Capital redemption reserve 52 –
Other capital reserves 589 –
Translation reserve 76 143
Retained earnings 38,736 32,889
Total equity 48,401 42,523
The notes on pages 90 to 116 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements on pages 85 to 116 were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2016 and were signed 
on its behalf by:
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
8 March 2016
 
 
Mike McLaren 
Chief Financial Officer
 
8 March 2016 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
88
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015  
£000
2014  
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Group profit before tax for the year 29,365 18,970
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 7 753 643
Finance income 11 (16) (4)
Finance expense 11 168 490
Share-based payment charge (including associated social security costs) 710 421
Decrease/ (increase) in trade and other receivables 479 (4,044)
Increase in trade and other payables 5,027 2,852
Cash flows generated from operations 36,486 19,328
Interest received 16 4
Income tax paid (6,920) (4,898)
Net cash generated from operating activities 29,582 14,434
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (2,437) (601)
Acquisition of intangible assets (172) (70)
Net cash used in investing activities
(2,609) (671)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares – 7,902
Repayment of borrowings 21 – (15,000)
Finance costs paid (161) (466)
Dividends paid 23 (16,665) –
Net cash used in financing activities (16,826) (7,564)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,147 6,199
Exchange (losses)/ gains on cash and cash equivalents (74) 78
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 18 12,287 6,010
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 22,360 12,287
The notes on pages 90 to 116 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
89
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
Share
premium
Treasury
shares
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Other
capital
reserves
Translation
reserve
Retained
earnings
Total
equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2015 1,127 8,364 – – – 143 32,889 42,523
Profit for the year – – – – – – 22,021 22,021
Other comprehensive 
expense for the year
– – – – – (67) – (67)
Total comprehensive 
(expense)/ income 
for the year
– – – – – (67) 22,021 21,954
Share-based payments 
(note 25)
– – – – 589 – – 589
Closure of Employee 
Benefit Trust (note 26)
– (491) – – – – 491 –
Purchase of deferred 
shares (note 22)
(52) – – 52 – – – –
Dividends (note 23) – – – – – – (16,665) (16,665)
Balance at  
31 December 2015
1,075 7,873 – 52 589 76 38,736 48,401
Share
capital
Share
premium
Treasury
shares
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Other
capital 
reserves
Translation
reserve
Retained
earnings
Total
equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2014 1,018 543 (22) – – 46 19,021 20,606
Profit for the year – – – – – – 13,497 13,497
Other comprehensive 
income for the year
– – – – – 97 – 97
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
– – – – – 97 13,497 13,594
Share-based payments 
(note 25) 
– – – – 421 – – 421
Transfer to 
retained earnings
– – – – (421) – 421 –
Sale of treasury shares – – 22 – – – (22) –
Bonus issue of shares 81 (53) – – – – (28) –
Proceeds from shares 
issued
28 7,972 – – – – – 8,000
Cost of shares issued – (98) – – – – – (98)
Balance at  
31 December 2014
1,127 8,364 – – – 143 32,889 42,523
The notes on pages 90 to 116 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90
1 General information
The Group is an international professional services provider focusing principally on Information Technology, specialising 
in the recruitment, training and placement of its own permanent IT consultants.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London 
Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered office is 3rd Floor, Cottons Centre, Cottons Lane, London, SE1 2QG and its 
registered number is 07078823. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries and their 
countries of incorporation are presented in note 3 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements present the results for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Consolidated 
Financial Statements were approved by Rod Flavell and Mike McLaren on behalf of the Board of Directors on 8 March 
2016.
2 Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position 
are summarised in the Strategic Report. The principal risks and uncertainties and risk management processes are also 
described in the Strategic Report. 
The Group’s continued and forecast global growth, positive operating cash flow and liquidity position, together with its 
distinctive business model and infrastructure, enables the Group to manage its business risks. The Group’s forecasts and 
projections show that it will continue to operate with adequate cash resources and within the current working capital 
facilities. The Group passed all bank covenants tested in the year and forecasts that all covenants will be passed for a 
period of at least twelve months from the date of signing this Annual Report.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
3 Accounting policies
3.1 Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (“IFRS IC”) interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRSs.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis. The Consolidated Financial 
Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000), except where 
otherwise indicated.
The Group’s accounting policies have been applied consistently.
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
91
Financial Statements
3.2 Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at  
31 December 2015.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and 
continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are 
prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group 
balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated 
in full.
Details of the subsidiaries owned by the Group are presented in note 3 to the Parent Company Financial Statements. 
There are no minority interests in the subsidiaries of the Company.
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies
a) Business combinations and goodwill
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of 
the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any 
asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair 
value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such 
re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-
date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired 
is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held 
interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, 
the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to the Group’s 
cash-generating unit that is expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of 
the acquiree are assigned to that unit.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain 
or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values 
of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
92
b) Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and excluding sales taxes.
Rendering of services
Revenue from the provision of IT consultants to third party customers is recognised as follows: 
• The revenue is recognised in the period in which the IT consultants perform the work at the contracted rates for each 
IT consultant. Revenue is based on timesheets from its IT consultants which are authorised by the Group’s customers 
detailing the hours and service provided; 
• Revenue in respect of non-receipted timesheets is accrued at the estimated contract value.
• Volume rebates are accrued in the period in which the revenue is incurred, with the value of the rebate offset against revenue. 
They are calculated with regard to the threshold revenue in a contractual period.
c) Foreign currency translation
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the company operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in Pounds Sterling (£), which is the functional 
currency of the parent company and the presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction. At the end of each reporting 
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the 
reporting period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations 
are expressed in the Group’s presentation currency using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. 
Income and expense related items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences 
arising are classified as other comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve.
d) Taxes
Current income tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are 
enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
93
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
d) Taxes (continued)
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following 
temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the 
extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related 
tax benefit will be realised.
e) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an 
item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Motor vehicles   4 years
Plant and equipment  4 years
Fixtures and fittings  4 years
Leasehold improvements  Length of lease
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed each financial year end and adjusted if 
appropriate. 
f) Operating leases
Operating lease payments are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as part of the total lease expense.
g) Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination are their fair values as at the date of acquisition. 
Software and software licences
The Group holds acquired software and software licences as intangible assets. Acquired software and software licences 
are capitalised on the basis of cost and amortised over the estimated useful lives of the software which is estimated to 
be four years or the licence term if shorter. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of 
each annual reporting period and adjusted if appropriate.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
94
Goodwill
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purposes of 
impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units.
Goodwill is reviewed annually or when there is an indication of impairment. Impairment of goodwill is determined by 
assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill has 
been allocated, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future 
periods.
h) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for 
impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision 
is the difference between the assets’ carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted 
at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts previously written off are credited against administrative expenses in the income statement.
i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months 
or less.
j) Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost. The Group’s financial 
liabilities include trade and other payables and a revolving credit facility. During 2014 the Group’s bank loans were repaid 
in full and in February 2015 the Group’s working capital facility expired.
Loans and financial liabilities
Borrowing costs paid on the establishment of credit facilities are recognised as an expense in the income statement over 
the expected usage period of the facility.
k) Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The assets of each scheme are held separately 
from those of the Group in an independently administered fund. The amount charged to the income statement represents 
the contributions payable to the schemes, in respect of the accounting period.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
95
3.3 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
l) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to 
provide a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group. They are items of expense or income that 
are material or one-off in nature and are shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount. Further 
information on the expenses classified as exceptional is included in note 10.
m) Equity
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or 
options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes), and deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the 
shares are cancelled or reissued. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or 
cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount and consideration (net 
of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects), if reissued, is recognised in 
Share premium. Treasury shares relate to those shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and are consolidated in the 
results of the Group. The Company is the sponsoring entity of the Employee Benefit Trust. The Employee Benefit Trust, 
which was inactive in 2015, was closed during the year ended 31 December 2015. Until its closure during 2015, the share 
transactions of the Employee Benefit Trust were consolidated in the results of the Group. 
Other capital reserves represent the cost of equity on settled share-based payments until such share options are 
exercised or lapse.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations.
n) Share-based payments
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, 
whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in other capital reserves 
in equity, over the period in which the performance and/ or service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative expense 
recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense. The equity-settled transactions are 
fair valued at the grant date and the expense recognised over the duration of the vesting period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting 
is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/ or service conditions are satisfied.
When the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense 
as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional expense is recognised for 
any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to 
the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
96
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the 
control of either the entity or the employee are not met. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, 
and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they 
were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
o) Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Board of Directors. The 
Executive Directors have been identified as the chief operating decision maker. 
p) Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are fully authorised, or in the case of interim dividends 
when paid.
4 Significant accounting estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting year. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates 
could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset and liability affected in 
future periods. The following are considered to be the Group’s significant areas of judgement:
Share-based payment charge
A share-based payment charge is recognised in respect of share awards based on the Directors’ best estimate of the 
number of shares that will vest based on the performance conditions of the awards, which comprise adjusted EPS growth 
and the number of employees that will leave before vesting. The charge is calculated based on the fair value on the grant 
date using the Black Scholes model and is expensed over the vesting period. The key assumptions in respect of the share-
based payment charges are set out in note 25. 
Impairment of goodwill
For impairment testing of goodwill the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) is calculated to reflect a required rate 
of return. The WACC is used to discount the estimated future cash flows of the Group to arrive at a value in use, which is 
compared to the carrying value of the goodwill and other net assets of the respective cash generating unit at the balance 
sheet date. If the value in use is greater than the carrying value of goodwill and other net assets at the balance sheet date, 
there is no impairment. For further information, see note 16.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
97
5 New standards and interpretations 
The International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and IFRS IC have issued the following amendment which was 
effective during the year and was adopted by the Group in preparing the financial statements. The adoption of this 
amendment has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements in the year:
Effective in 2015
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after Endorsed by the EU
Amendments
Amendment to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’, on defined 
benefit plans 
1 July 2015 Yes
The IASB and IFRS IC have issued the following standards and amendments with an effective date of implementation for 
accounting periods beginning after the date on which the Group’s financial statements for the current year commenced. 
With the exception of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and 
interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application. The 
Directors have not yet carried out an assessment of the likely impact of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’.
Effective after 31 December 2015
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after Endorsed by the EU
New standards
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’ 1 January 2018 No
IFRS 14, ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’ 1 January 2016 Yes
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ 1 January 2018 No
IFRS 16, ‘Leases' 1 January 2019 No
Amendments
Amendments to IAS 1, 'Presentation of financial statements' 
disclosure initiative 
1 January 2016 Yes
Amendments to IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ 1 January 2017 No
Amendments to IAS 12,'Income taxes' on recognition of deferred tax 
assets for unrealised losses
1 January 2017 No
Amendment to IAS 16, 'Property, plant and equipment' and IAS 38, 
'Intangible assets', on depreciation and amortisation 
1 January 2016 Yes
Amendments to IAS 16, 'Property, plant and equipment' and IAS 41, 
'Agriculture' on bearer plants
1 January 2016 Yes
Amendments to IAS 27, 'Separate financial statements' on equity 
accounting
1 January 2016 Yes
Amendments to IAS 28, ‘Investments in Associates’ 1 January 2016 No
Amendments to IAS 38, ‘Intangible Assets’ 1 January 2016 No
Amendments to IAS 41, ‘Agriculture’ 1 January 2016 No
Amendment to IFRS 9,'Financial instruments', on general hedge 
accounting 
1 January 2018 No
Amendments to IFRS 10, 'Consolidated financial statements ' and 
IAS 28, 'Investments in associates and joint ventures' on sale or 
contribution of assets 
 1 January 2016 No
Amendments to IFRS 10, 'Consolidated financial statements' and IAS 
28, 'Investments in associates and joint ventures' on applying the 
consolidation exemption
 1 January 2016 No
Amendment to IFRS 11, 'Joint arrangements on acquisition of an 
interest in a joint operation'
1 January 2016 Yes
Amendment to IFRS 12, ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities' 1 January 2016 No
Annual improvements 2012 – 2014 cycle 1 January 2016 Yes
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
98
6 Segmental reporting
Management has determined the operating segments based on the operating reports reviewed by the Board of Directors 
that are used to assess both performance and strategic decisions. Management has identified that the Executive Directors 
are the chief operating decision maker in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’.
At 31 December 2015, the Board of Directors consider that the Group is organised on a worldwide basis into four core 
geographical operating segments:
(1) UK and Ireland;
(2) North America; 
(3) Rest of Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding UK and Irelan d (“EMEA”); and
(4) Asia Pacific (“APAC”).
Each geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment and is subject to 
risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
All segment revenue, profit before taxation, assets and liabilities are attributable to the principal activity of the Group, 
being an international IT services provider.
During the year to 31 December 2015 the measurement methods used to determine operating segments and reported 
segmental profit or loss was updated to include all recharges from operating segments, and where appropriate, central 
costs. This analysis provides a clearer understanding of the underlying performance in each segment. The comparative 
numbers have been restated for comparability.
For the year ended 31 December 2015
UK and 
Ireland
£000
North 
America
£000
EMEA 
£000
APAC
£000
Total
£000
Revenue 110,011 36,154 10,672 3,819 160,656
Depreciation and amortisation (559) (176) (15) (3) (753)
Segment operating profit 22,370 5,892 909 346 29,517
Finance income 14 – 2 – 16
Finance costs (152) (4) (9) (3) (168)
Profit before tax 22,232 5,888 902 343 29,365
Total assets 57,127 8,652 3,601 1,560 70,940
Total liabilities (15,861) (4,258) (1,600) (820) (22,539)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
99
6 Segmental reporting (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2014 (restated)
UK and 
Ireland
£000
North 
America
£000
EMEA
£000
APAC
£000
Total
£000
Revenue 90,313 22,122 8,909 1,913 123,257
Depreciation and amortisation (456) (165) (20) (2) (643)
Operating profit before exceptional items 21,191 3,133 488 56 24,868
Exceptional expenses (5,339) (73) – – (5,412)
Segment operating profit 15,852 3,060 488 56 19,456
Finance income 4 – – – 4
Finance costs (473) (5) (11) (1) (490)
Profit before tax 15,383 3,055 477 55 18,970
Total assets 47,101 7,546 3,676 987 59,310
Total liabilities (11,551) (3,435) (1,357) (444) (16,787)
Information about major customers
One customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s revenues from all four operating segments and is presented as 
follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Revenue from customer 44,714 30,252
7 Operating profit
Operating profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/ (crediting):
2015 2014
£000 £000
Hire of property – operating leases 2,627 2,048
Net foreign exchange differences (69) (46)
Depreciation and amortisation 753 643
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
100
Auditors’ remuneration
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors for the audit of the Parent Company 
and Consolidated Financial Statements
65 65
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for other services:
- The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries
- Fees in relation to Admission process
- Non-audit services
114
–
84
1
100
725
–
263 890
8 Staff numbers and costs 
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group (including Executive Directors) during the year, analysed 
by category, was as follows:
2015
Number
2014
Number
IT Consultants 1,992 1,390
Sales 79 71
Administration 237 196
2,308 1,657
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2015 2014 
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 70,148 52,358
Social security costs 6,818 5,517
Other pension costs 932 604
Share-based payments 589 421
78,487 58,900
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
101
8 Staff numbers and costs (continued)
Retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The pension charge for the year represents 
contributions payable by the Group to the schemes. The pension contributions payable at 31 December 2015 was 
£143,000 (2014: £107,000). There were no outstanding prepaid contributions at the end of the financial years 2015 
and 2014.
 
9 Directors’ remuneration
Details of the Directors’ (who also represent the key management personnel of the Group) remuneration in respect of the 
year ended 31 December 2015 is set out below:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Short term employee benefits 2,292 1,780
Post-employment benefits 33 24
Share-based payments – 421
2,325 2,225
  
For further information on Directors’ remuneration, see the audited sections of the Remuneration Report as defined on 
page 57.
10 Exceptional items
The Group incurred no exceptional costs in 2015.
During 2014, the Group incurred £5,412,000 of exceptional expenses. These comprised £4,887,000 in respect of the 
Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange, and exceptional staff costs, including share-based payments 
relating to a scheme that existed prior to Admission of £525,000.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
102
11 Financial income and expense
2015 2014
£000 £000
Bank interest 16 4
Financial income 16 4
2015 2014
£000 £000
Interest payable on working capital facility (11) (51)
Interest payable on revolving credit facility (109) (351)
Finance fees and charges (48) (88)
Financial expense (168) (490)
12 Taxation 
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current income tax:
Current income tax charge 7,494 5,540
Adjustments in respect of prior periods – (301)
Deferred tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (150) 67
Adjustments in respect of prior periods – 167
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 7,344 5,473
 
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and to 20% with 
effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the profits for the respective accounting periods are taxed at an effective rate of 
20.25% (2014: 21.5%). The tax charge for the year is higher (2014: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the 
UK. The differences are set out on the next page:
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
103
12 Taxation (continued)
2015 2014
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 29,365 18,970
Profit multiplied by UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 5,946 4,079
Effect of different tax rates on overseas earnings 1,283 644
Adjustments in respect of prior periods – (135)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 115 885
Total tax charge 7,344 5,473
Factors affecting future tax charges
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rate that is expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting 
date. Therefore, at each year end, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on the rates that have 
been substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
In 2015 the UK government announced legislation setting out that the main UK corporation tax rate will be 19% with 
effect from 1 April 2017, and 18% with effect from 1 April 2020. At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, deferred 
tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based upon the rate at which the temporary difference is expected to 
reverse. These reductions may also reduce the Group’s future current tax charges accordingly.
13 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. There is no difference between basic and 
diluted earnings per share for the year as there are no dilutive shares.
2015 2014
Profit for the year £000 22,021 13,497
Average number of ordinary shares in issue Number 107,517,506 106,219,238
Earnings per share (ordinary shares) Pence 20.5 12.7
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent 
Company, excluding exceptional items and performance share plan expense (including social security costs), by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
104
2015 2014
Profit for the year (basic earnings) £000 22,021 13,497
Exceptional items (net of tax) (note 10) £000 – 5,137
Share-based payment expense (including social security costs) (note 25) £000 710 –
Tax effect of share-based payment expense £000 (173) –
Adjusted profit for the year £000 22,558 18,634
Average number of ordinary shares in issue Number 107,517,506 106,219,238
Adjusted earnings per share Pence 21.0 17.5
 
14 Property, plant and equipment
2015
Leasehold
improvements
Motor 
vehicles
Fixtures and
 fittings
Plant and 
equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000)
Cost
At 1 January 2015 2,361 23 642 1,414 4,440
Additions 1,610 – 362 465 2,437
Disposals (330) – – – (330)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 16 – 5 (2) 19
)
At 31 December 2015 3,657 23 1,009 1,877 6,566
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 623 23 355 917 1,918
Depreciation charge for the year 293 – 156 253 702
Disposals (330) – – – (330)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 3 – 6 3 12
At 31 December 2015 589 23 517 1,173 2,302
Net book value at 31 December 2015 3,068 – 492 704 4,264
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
105
14 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
2014
Leasehold
improvements
Motor
vehicles
Fixtures and 
fittings
Plant and
equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 2,171 23 479 1,284 3,957
Additions 202 – 155 244 601
Disposals (28) – – (121) (149)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 16 – 8 7 31
At 31 December 2014 2,361 23 642 1,414 4,440
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 427 21 224 781 1,453
Depreciation charge for the year 222 2 125 254 603
Disposals (28) – – (121) (149)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2 – 6 3 11
At 31 December 2014 623 23 355 917 1,918
Net book value at 31 December 2014 1,738 – 287 497 2,522
15 Intangible assets
2015
Software and
software licences Goodwill Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 419 19,322 19,741
Additions 172 – 172
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1 – 1
At 31 December 2015 592 19,322 19,914
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2015 312 – 312
Amortisation for the year 51 – 51
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1 – 1
At 31 December 2015 364 – 364
Net book value at 31 December 2015 228 19,322 19,550
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
106
2014
Software and
software licences Goodwill Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 347 19,322 19,669
Additions 70 – 70
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2 – 2
At 31 December 2014 419 19,322 19,741
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2014 270 – 270
Amortisation for the year 40 – 40
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2 – 2
At 31 December 2014 312 – 312
Net book value at 31 December 2014 107 19,322 19,429
 
 
The amortisation charge is recognised in administrative expenses in the income statement. The amortisation period of 
the software and software licences is 4 years. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment test. 
The goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units (“CGUs”) summarised as follows:
UK and
Ireland
North 
America EMEA APAC Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost and net book value
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 14,843 3,082 1,397 – 19,322
16 Impairment testing of goodwill 
An overview of impairment reviews performed by CGUs is set out below. The recoverable amount of each CGU has been 
determined on value in use calculations using cash flow projections from financial budgets and forecasts approved by 
the Board covering a three year period from the date of the relevant impairment review. The key assumptions in the 
projections, for all CGUs, were as follows:
• Revenue and gross margin were based on expected levels of activity under existing major contractual arrangements 
together with growth based upon medium term historical growth rates and having regard to expected economic and 
market conditions for other customers.
• Administrative expenses were forecast to move in line with expected levels of activity in the CGU.
• The growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond the three year forecast period was 2.0% up to a period of 
15 years in total.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
107
16 Impairment testing of goodwill (continued)
The pre-tax discount rates used in the calculations were as follows:
2015 2014
% %
UK and Ireland 10.24 11.81
North America 13.95 13.58
EMEA 10.08 10.39
As a result of the review the Directors did not identify any impairment for the goodwill in each CGU. In considering 
sensitivities, no reasonable change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall 
below the carrying value of the CGUs.
17 Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
£000 £000
Trade receivables 20,990 21,654
Other receivables 341 191
Prepayments and accrued income 3,262 3,227
24,593 25,072
The trade receivables as at 31 December are aged as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Not overdue 15,324 14,795
Not more than three months past due 5,336 6,461
More than three months but not more than six months past due 338 388
More than six months but not more than one year past due 78 87
Older than one year past due 48 –
Provision for impairment (134) (77)
20,990 21,654
An analysis of the provision for impairment by the aged receivable category it relates to is set out below:
Provision for
impairment
Provision for
impairment
2015 2014
£000 £000
Not overdue 2 –
Not more than three months past due 30 –
More than three months but not more than six months past due 35 –
More than six months but not more than one year past due 29 77
Older than one year past due 38 –
134 77
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
108
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Pounds Sterling 13,872 14,915
US Dollar 4,047 3,722
Canadian Dollar 599 447
Euro 996 1,329
Swiss Franc 553 678
Hong Kong Dollar 235 212
Singapore Dollar 345 156
Chinese Renminbi 282 8
South African Rand 52 183
Swedish Krona 9 4
20,990 21,654
18 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 2014
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 22,360 12,287
Cash and cash equivalents denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling amount to £5,404,000 (2014: 
£4,362,000), denominated in US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Euro, Swiss Franc, Hong Kong Dollar, Singapore Dollar, Chinese 
Renminbi, South African Rand and Swedish Krona. 
The Group has issued guarantees in favour of Rptre Sarl for €31,548, Commerzbank for CHF150,000, CRP/ Capstone 14W 
Property Owner LLC totalling US$242,399 and Roza 14W LLC for a leasehold property in the USA for US$25,973.
The movement in the provision for impairment is as below:
2015 2014
£000 £000
At 1 January 77 66
Charge for the year 57 11
At 31 December 134 77
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
109
18 Cash and cash equivalents (continued)
The credit quality of financial assets can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings issued by credit ratings 
agencies registered in the European Union. Cash at bank is held with banks with the following ratings:
Cash at bank by credit rating 2015 2014
£000 £000
AA 20,989 11,467
A 1,371 820
22,360 12,287
(i) Revolving credit facility
The Group has a £20,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) with HSBC Bank plc, expiring on 14 August 2018. The facility 
is available to be repaid and redrawn at the discretion of the Group. 
The RCF is secured by way of a debenture on the assets of the Company, Astra 5.0 Limited, FDM Group Limited and FDM 
Group Inc. The interest rate on the RCF is fixed at 2.75% over LIBOR per annum. Since February 2015 the charge on non-
utilised funds reduced from 1.0% to 0.4% per annum. 
(ii) Working capital facility
At 31 December 2014 the Group had a working capital facility of £10,000,000 provided by HSBC. The facility expired in 
February 2015 at the end of the facility term.
19 Trade and other payables
2015 2014
£000 £000
Trade payables 3,172 2,730
Other payables 883 881
Other taxes and social security 5,257 4,504
Accruals and deferred income 9,856 5,898
19,168 14,013
Trade and other payables denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling amount to £723,000 (2014: £2,305,000), 
denominated in US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros, Swiss Francs, Hong Kong Dollars, Singapore Dollars, Chinese 
Renminbi, South African Rand and Swedish Krona.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
110
20 Deferred income tax assets/ (liabilities)
Group deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) are attributable to the following:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Non-current:
Non-current temporary differences 173 –
Deferred tax asset 173 –
2015 2015
£000 £000
Non-current:
Non-current temporary differences (282) (259)
Deferred tax liability (282) (259)
Based on the Group’s approved forecasts, the Directors consider the deferred tax asset is recoverable within two to five years.
1 January 2015
Recognised
in income 
statement
31 December 
2015
£000 £000 £000
Movement in deferred tax during 2015:
Share-based payments – 173 173
Property, plant and equipment (259) (23) (282)
(259) 150 (109)
1 January 2014 Recognised
in income 
statement
31 December 
2014
£000 £000 £000
Movement in deferred tax during 2014:
Property, plant and equipment (25) (234) (259)
(25) (234) (259)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
111
21 Analysis of net cash/ (debt) (non-GAAP measure) 
 
2015
£000
2014)
£000)
Analysis of net cash
Cash and cash equivalents 22,360 12,287
Net debt is defined as borrowings less net cash and cash equivalents. The Group had undrawn facilities at 31 December 
2015 of £20,000,000 (2014: £30,000,000).
2015
£000
2014
£000
Movement of net cash/ (debt)
Net cash/ (debt) at beginning of year 12,287 (8,990)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,147 6,199
Repayment of borrowings – 15,000
Exchange (losses)/ gains (74) 78
Total net cash 22,360 12,287
22 Share capital
Authorised, called up, allotted and fully paid share capital
2015 2015 2014 2014
Number of 
shares
£000 Number of 
shares
£000
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 107,517,506 1,075 107,517,506 1,075
Deferred shares of £0.01 each – – 5,200,392 52
107,517,506 1,075 112,717,898 1,127
Ordinary shares
All ordinary shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions that may be declared on such shares. At general 
meetings of the Company, each shareholder who is present (in person, by proxy or by representative) is entitled to one 
vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote per share.
Deferred shares
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2015, shareholders approved the purchase by the Company 
of 5,200,392 deferred shares for £1.00; the deferred shares had a nominal value of £0.01 each. The deferred shares were 
not entitled to any dividend or distribution and the holders had no right to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting 
of the Company by virtue of their holdings of any deferred shares. The holder of each deferred share had the right to 
receive, after the holders of all other shares in the capital of the Company (other than the deferred shares) then in issue 
had received £10,000,000 in respect of each such share held by them.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
112
23 Dividends
2015
£000
2014
£000
Dividends paid
Paid to shareholders 16,665 –
An interim dividend of 8.0 pence per share (2014: nil pence per share) was declared by the Directors on 28 July 2015 
and paid on 25 September 2015 to holders of record on 21 August 2015. An interim dividend of 7.5 pence per share 
in respect of the period from Admission of the Company’s shares to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange 
on 20 June 2014 to 31 December 2014 was paid on 12 June 2015. 
The Board is proposing the following dividends in respect of the year to 31 December 2015, for approval by shareholders 
at the AGM on 28 April 2016:
• A final dividend of 8.5 pence per share; and
• A special dividend of 5.0 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, both of these dividends will be paid on 3 June 2016 to shareholders of record on 13 May 
2016.
This brings the Company’s total dividend for the year to 21.5 pence per share (2014: 7.5 pence per share), comprising 
total ordinary dividends of 16.5 pence per share (2014: 7.5 pence per share) and the special dividend of 5.0 pence per 
share (2014: nil pence per share). The total ordinary dividends of 16.5 pence per share will be covered 1.2 times by basic 
earnings per share.
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy; the Group will retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating 
requirements, maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover and sufficient funds to invest in the Group’s longer term growth.
24 Operating leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties. Future minimum payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases are as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Less than one year 2,805 1,366
Between one and five years 12,210 6,292
More than five years 6,277 5,023
21,292 12,681
 
There are no contingent rents, purchase options, escalation clauses or significant restrictions on any of the Group’s 
operating leases.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
113
25 Share-based payments
2015 2014
£000 £000
Expenses arising from equity settled share-based payment transaction (i) 589 –
Expenses arising from equity settled share-based payment transaction (ii) – 421
589 421
i) 2015 share-based payments
As disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Company granted awards on 20 April 2015 and 10 August 2015, 
in the form of nominal cost options over ordinary shares in the Company under the FDM 2014 Performance Share Plan 
(“PSP”). The vesting of the awards is subject to the achievement of a three year performance condition relating to earnings 
per share.
Awards granted to UK participants have been structured as Approved Performance Share Plan (“APSP”) awards to enable 
participants to benefit from UK tax efficiencies. Each APSP award consists of a tax qualifying option under the FDM 2014 
Company Share Option Plan (”CSOP”) over shares with a value of up to £30,000 and a separate award under the PSP for 
amounts in excess of the HMRC £30,000 limit. A Linked Award is also provided under the PSP to enable participants to 
fund the exercise price of the CSOP option.
PSP and CSOP options are exercisable no later than the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The table below summarises the outstanding share options:
Number of 
shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Outstanding at 1 January 2015 – –
Granted during 2015 1,220,698 103p
Forfeited during 2015 123,126 n/a
Exercised during 2015 – –
Expired during 2015 – –
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 1,097,572 103p
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 2 n/a
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
114
The fair values of the PSP and CSOP options made during the year were determined using the Black-Scholes valuation 
model. The significant inputs to the model were as follows:
PSP CSOP
Share price at date of grant 331p 331p
Exercise price 1p 331p
Dividend yield 4% 4%
Expected volatility 31% 31%
Risk free interest rate 1.22% 1.22%
Expected life 4 years 4 years
Fair value at date of grant – issue on 20 April 2015 281p 56p
Fair value at date of grant – issue on 10 August 2015 388p 125p
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not 
necessarily be the actual outcome. As the Company has only a limited history of quoted share price volatility, the expected 
volatility has been partly based on the historical volatility of comparator companies.
ii)  2014 share-based payments
On 20 June 2014 the FDM Employee Benefit Trust transferred ownership of 146,520 B shares to three Directors of the 
Company for £nil consideration. The share-based payment arises as a result of the exercise price being at a lower price 
than the fair value share price at the transfer date, being the date when the shares were valued. The fair value of the 
shares at the time of the transfer has been calculated using the share price on Admission of £2.87. 
26 Closure of Employee Benefit Trust
On 28 December 2015 the Employee Benefit Trust, of which the Company was the sponsor, was closed, resulting in 
a transfer of £491,000 from the consolidated share premium account to retained earnings. There is no impact on the 
Parent Company share premium, retained earnings or distributable reserves.
27 Related parties
During the year the Group paid rental of £36,000 (2014: £33,000) to Rod Flavell, Chief Executive Officer and Sheila Flavell, 
Chief Operating Officer, for rent of an apartment used for short term employee accommodation. The rent payable was 
at market rate, no balances were outstanding at year end (2014: £nil).
During the year the Group paid £58,000 (2014: £nil) for contractor IT services to Viper Business Solutions Limited, which 
is a limited company wholly owned by the daughter of Sheila Flavell. The IT services performed were charged at market 
rate, no balances were outstanding at year end (2014: £nil).
Inflexion Private Equity partners invoiced fees to the value of £nil (2014: £43,000) for Directors’ fees and expenses. No 
balances were outstanding at year end (2014: £nil). Inflexion Private Equity partners had owned 61.5% of the voting rights 
of the Company until Admission in 2014.
A number of the Directors’ family members are employed by the Group. The employment relationships are at market 
rate and are carried out on an arm’s length basis.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
115
28 Financial risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure the Company and all its subsidiaries will be able to continue as a going concern 
whilst maximising the return to shareholders.
The use of financial instruments is managed under policies and procedures approved by the Board. These are designed 
to reduce the financial risks faced by the Group and Company, which primarily relate to credit, interest, liquidity, capital 
management and foreign currency risks, which arise in the normal course of the Group’s business.
There are no adjustments between the amounts presented in the Statement of Financial Position and the fair values of 
the assets and liabilities.
Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis and arises from cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. The Group 
provides credit to customers in the normal course of business and the amount that appears in the Statement of Financial 
Position is net of an allowance of £134,000 (2014: £77,000) for specific doubtful receivables. 
All material trade receivable balances relate to sales transactions with the Group’s blue-chip customer base. At the 
reporting date, although the Group had significant balances with key customers, there were no significant concentrations 
of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset. 
Credit risk is managed through agreed procedures which include managing and analysing the credit risk for new 
customers and managing existing customers.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily 
to the Group’s long term debt facility which has an interest rate of 2.75% above LIBOR. At the year end the Group had 
no borrowings therefore it has limited exposure to interest rate risk. The Group manages its interest rate risk through 
regular reviews of its exposure to changes in interest rates.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash flows and where appropriate matches the maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has no borrowings from third parties at the year end and therefore liquidity risk is not considered a significant 
risk at this time.
Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor market, creditor, customer and 
employee confidence and to sustain future investment and development of the business. The capital structure of the 
Group consists of equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group comprising issued share capital, other reserves 
and retained earnings.
The Board monitors the capital structure on a regular basis and determines the level of annual dividend. The Group is not 
exposed to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
116
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates 
primarily to the Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the 
Group’s functional currency) and the Group’s net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily the US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Swiss Franc and Euro. The Group has 
both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a natural hedge. The Group has not entered into hedging 
contracts for cash positions denominated in foreign currencies. 
Fair values
There is no significant difference between the carrying amounts shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position and the fair values of the Group and Company’s financial instruments. For current trade and other receivables or 
payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the amortised cost is deemed to reflect the fair value. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
117
Report on the group financial statements 
 
Our opinion
In our opinion, FDM Group (Holdings) plc’s parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its cash flows for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
• the parent company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015;
• the parent company statement of cash flows for the year then ended;
• the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
 
Other required reporting
 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of FDM Group (Holdings) plc FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
118
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on pages 77 to 78, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
 
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of FDM Group (Holdings) plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Jaskamal Sarai (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
8 March 2016 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
119
Financial Statements
as at 31 December 2015
Note 2015 2014
£000 £000
Non-current assets
Investments 3 589 –
589 –
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 4 34,602 4,351
Cash and cash equivalents 5 10 5
Total current assets 34,612 4,356
Total assets 35,201 4,356
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 6 165 103
Total liabilities 165 103
Net assets 35,036 4,253
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 7 1,075 1,127
Share premium 7,873 7,873
Capital redemption reserve 52 –
Other capital reserves 589 –
Retained earnings/ (accumulated losses) 25,447 (4,747)
Total equity 35,036 4,253
The Parent Company made a profit for the year of £46,859,000 (2014: loss of £4,835,000). In accordance with section 408 
of the Companies Act 2006, the Parent Company’s individual profit and loss account is not included in these financial 
statements.
The notes on pages 122 to 126 are an integral part of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
These financial statements on pages 119 to 126 were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2016 and were 
signed on its behalf by:
Parent Company Statement of 
Financial Position
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer 
8 March 2016
 
 
 
Mike McLaren
Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2016 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
120
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note 2015 2014
£000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Company profit/ (loss) before tax for the year 46,859 (4,835)
Adjustments for:
Dividends received (47,000) –
Increase in trade and other receivables (30,251) (3,170)
Increase in trade and other payables 62 103
Net cash flow used in operating activities (30,330) (7,902)
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received 10 47,000 –
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares – 7,902
Net cash generated from investing activities 47,000 7,902
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 10 (16,665) –
Net cash used in financing activities (16,665) –
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 5 –
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 5 5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 5 10 5
The notes on pages 122 to 126 are an integral part of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of 
Cash Flows
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
121
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
Share
premium
Capital
redemption 
reserve
Other 
capital 
reserves
(Accumulated 
losses)/ 
retained
earnings
Total
equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2015 1,127 7,873 – – (4,747) 4,253
Profit for the year – – – – 46,859 46,859
Total comprehensive income for 
the year
– – – – 46,859 46,859
Dividends paid – – – – (16,665) (16,665)
Share-based payments (note 3) – – – 589 – 589
Purchase of deferred shares 
(note 7)
(52) – 52 – – –
Balance at 31 December 2015 1,075 7,873 52 589 25,447 35,036
Share
capital
Share
premium
Capital
redemption 
reserve
Other 
capital 
reserves
Retained 
earnings/ 
(accumulated 
losses) 
Total
equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2014 1,018 52 – – 116 1,186
Loss for the year – – – – (4,835) (4,835)
Total comprehensive expense 
for the year
– – – – (4,835) (4,835)
Bonus issue 81 (53) – – (28) –
Proceeds from shares issued 28 7,972 – – – 8,000
Costs of shares issued – (98) – – – (98)
Balance at 31 December 2014 1,127 7,873 – – (4,747) 4,253
The notes on pages 122 to 126 are an integral part of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
122
1 Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that with the continued support of other Group companies, the Company 
will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence as a holding company for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
 
2 Accounting policies
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 
2015 and in accordance with IFRIC interpretations.
 The Company has taken the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company 
income statement. The profit for the year was £46,859,000 (2014: loss of £4,835,000).
The financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as those of the Group and have been applied consistently. These 
are set out in note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, except that the Company has no policy in 
respect of consolidation. Investments are carried at historical cost.
Details of the Company’s significant accounting estimates, being the share-based payments, are consistent with those 
disclosed in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 96.
 
3 Investments
2015
£000
2014) 
£000)
At 1 January – –
Additions 589 –
At 31 December 589 –
The addition to investments represents a recharge from the Company to its subsidiary undertakings in respect of the costs 
associated with the FDM 2014 PSP. For further details of the PSP see note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
123
Financial Statements
3 Investments (continued)
The Company holds the following investments in its subsidiaries:
Company
Country of 
incorporation
Class of
 share held Direct/ indirect Ownership
Astra 5.0 Limited Great Britain Ordinary Direct 100%
FDM Group Limited Great Britain Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Astra Ireland Limited Ireland Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group Inc. USA Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group Canada Inc. Canada Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group NV Belgium Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group GmbH Germany Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Switzerland GmbH Switzerland Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group SA Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM South Africa (PTY) Limited South Africa Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Singapore Consulting PTE Limited Singapore Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Technology (Shanghai) Co. Limited China Ordinary Indirect 100%
FDM Group HK Limited Hong Kong Ordinary Indirect 100%
 
The total cost of investments in subsidiaries, excluding the addition in the year, is £2 (2014: £2).
Astra 5.0 Limited acts as an intermediate holding company and provides human resources and marketing services to the 
Group. The remaining subsidiaries carry out the principal activity of the Group.
4 Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
£000 £000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 34,539 4,345
Prepayments and accrued income 63 6
34,602 4,351
 
All trade and other receivables are receivable in Pounds Sterling and are fully performing. Amounts owed by subsidiary 
undertakings are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
124
5 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 2014
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 10 5
 
The Company’s cash is held with a financial institution with a credit rating of AA at the date of signing the financial 
statements. 
6 Trade and other payables
2015 2014
£000 £000
Trade payables 55 –
Accruals and deferred income 110 103
165 103
 
7 Share capital
2015 2015 2014 2014
Number of 
shares £000
Number of 
shares £000
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 107,517,506 1,075 107,517,506 1,075
Deferred shares of £0.01 each – – 5,200,392 52
107,517,506 1,075 112,717,898 1,127
 
Ordinary shares
All ordinary shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions that may be declared on such shares. At general 
meetings of the Company, each shareholder who is present (in person, by proxy or by representative) is entitled to one 
vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote per share.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
125
Financial Statements
7 Share capital (continued)
Deferred shares
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2015, shareholders approved the purchase by the Company 
of 5,200,392 deferred shares for £1.00; the deferred shares had a nominal value of £0.01 each. The deferred shares were 
not entitled to any dividend or distribution and the holders had no right to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting 
of the Company by virtue of their holdings of any deferred shares. The holder of each deferred share had the right to 
receive, after the holders of all other shares in the capital of the Company (other than the deferred shares) then in issue 
had received £10,000,000 in respect of each such share held by them.
8 Related parties
The Company holds inter-company balances with certain of its subsidiary undertakings. The transactions that have taken 
place are in relation to inter-company loan repayments/ additions which are listed below:
Dividends
from
related 
parties
Amounts
owed by
related 
parties
Dividends
from
related 
parties
Amounts
owed by
related 
parties
2015 2015 2014 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Astra 5.0 Limited 47,000 4,340 – 4,345
FDM Group Limited – 30,199 – –
47,000 34,539 – 4,345
9 Financial risk management
The financial risks and uncertainties the Company faces are the same as those of the Group. These are set out on pages 
115 and 116. 
10 Dividends
2015) 2014)
£000) £000)
Dividends received
Received from subsidiaries 47,000 –
Dividends paid
Paid to shareholders 16,665 – FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
126
An interim dividend of 8.0 pence per share (2014: nil pence per share) was declared by the Directors on 28 July 2015 and 
paid on 25 September 2015 to holders of record on 21 August 2015. An interim dividend of 7.5 pence per share in respect 
of the period from Admission of the Company’s shares to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014 
to 31 December 2014 was paid on 12 June 2015. 
The Board is proposing the following dividends in respect of the year to 31 December 2015, for approval by shareholders 
at the AGM on 28 April 2016:
• A final dividend of 8.5 pence per share; and
• A special dividend of 5.0 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, both of these dividends will be paid on 3 June 2016 to shareholders of record on 13 May 
2016.
This brings the Company’s total dividend for the year to 21.5 pence per share (2014: 7.5 pence per share), comprising 
total ordinary dividends of 16.5 pence per share (2014: 7.5 pence per share) and the special dividend of 5.0 pence per 
share (2014: nil pence per share). The total ordinary dividends of 16.5 pence per share will be covered 1.2 times by basic 
earnings per share.
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy; the Company will retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating 
requirements, maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover and sufficient funds to invest in the Group’s longer term 
growth.
An interim balance sheet as at 28 February 2015 was prepared and delivered to Companies House to enable the interim 
dividend to be paid on 12 June 2015. The total value of distributable reserves as at 31 December 2015 was £25,447,000. 
11 Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration was paid by FDM Group Limited in both the current and prior year and no recharge was made to 
the Company. For further details see note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 101.
 
12 Auditors’ remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration was paid by FDM Group Limited in both the current and prior year and no recharge was made 
to the Company.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
127
Directors Ivan Martin Non-Executive Chairman
Roderick Flavell Chief Executive Officer
Sheila Flavell Chief Operating Officer
Michael McLaren Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Brown Group Commercial Director
Peter Whiting Non-Executive Director
Robin Taylor Non-Executive Director
Michelle Senecal de Fonseca Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary Jonathan Mark Heather
Registered office 3rd Floor
Cottons Centre
Cottons Lane
London
SE1 2QG
Independent Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH
Bankers HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
London
E14 5HQ
Registrars Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Stock brokers (joint) Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Stockdale Securities Limited
Beaufort House
15 St. Botolph Street
London
EC3A 7BB
Legal advisors Taylor Wessing LLP
5 New Street Square
London  
EC4A 3TW
Financial PR advisors Weber Shandwick
No 2 Waterhouse Square
140 High Holborn
London
EC1N 2AE
Shareholder Information
Financial Statements FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
128
Notes FDM Group
3rd Floor, Cottons Centre, Cottons Lane, London SE1 2QG
Tel: +44 (0) 20 3056 8240
Fax: +44 (0) 870 757 7634
Email: enquiries@fdmgroup.com
© FDM Group 2016
UK 
IRELAND
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
LUXEMBOURG
SOUTH AFRICA
USA
CANADA
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
CHINA
