 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
for the year ended 31 December 2015
ANNUAL REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower PLC  Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
Stock Code: FLO
www.flowtechfluidpower.com 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Welcome 
Welcome to Flowtech Fluidpower plc’s second Annual Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2015
Our mission
Guided by its principles to build and maintain strong customer relations, the Group 
will continue to invest in its people, products and servicing requirements
Our vision
To create a key leader and to be the ‘best in industry’ for the fluid power sector
Our values
Read more about  
Our Values online   Who are we?
Flowtech Fluidpower plc is the UK’s leading distributor of technical fluid power 
products and has an international footprint with offices in the UK, ROI and 
Benelux with a buying, QC and logistics office in China
The Group’s headquarters are in Skelmersdale, Lancashire and the business 
employs 266 people
❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰
❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰❰
Delivering 
Tailored Solutions
Adding Value To All  
Our Stakeholders
Nurturing Solid 
Partnerships
Continuing Strong 
Traditions 23844.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof Shell
Who are we? IFC
Our mission, vision and values IFC
Our competitive edge 01
Financial and operational highlights 02
Non-Executive Chairman’s letter 03
Reasons to invest 05
Group at a glance 06
Strategic Report
Our marketplace 12
Our business model 14
Our strategy 18
Case study 20
Key performance indicators 21
Living our values 22
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 27 
Financial review 29
Risk management 32
Sustainability 34 
Our Governance
Officers and professional advisers 38
Directors’ Report (other disclosures) 40
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 43
Corporate Governance Report 44
Directors’ remuneration Report 46
Our Financials
Independent Auditor’s Report 48
Consolidated Income Statement 50
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 51
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 52
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 53
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 54
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information 55
Company Statement of Financial Position 92
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 93
Notes to the Company Financial Information 94
Shareholder Notes 98
What’s inside
Investor website
We maintain a corporate website at www.flowtechfluidpower.com  
containing a wide variety of information of interest to investors 
including:
•	 Latest news and press releases
•	 Annual Reports
Our competitive edge
Three divisional streams allowing a multi-channel approach to customer service:
Flowtechnology
Best in industry providers of hydraulic, pneumatic and industrial solutions in the fluid 
power industry
•	 Scale – “one-stop shop” for fluid power products
•	 Stock availability – unrivalled width and depth of product range 
•	 Outstanding Service quality – order by 10:00 pm for next-day delivery.  
99% in stock availability
•	 Technology – 63% of orders are placed online B2B
Power Motion Control
Adding value through design and assembly capabilities for specialist hydraulics
•	 Know-how – differentiated technical design, assembly and marketing
•	 Centre of Engineering Excellence for hydraulic assembly
Process
Focused on delivering quality branded and generic solutions to manufacturing and 
industrial end users
•	 Established March 2016
•	 Extended range of valves and associated products
Enhancing our offering through acquisition
Two incorporated into the Power Motion Control division
•	 May 2015, Albroco Limited, a well-respected supplier of hydraulic components 
and electro-mechanical products to the on and off highway markets
•	 July 2015, Nelson Fluid Power Limited, a distributor of hydraulic equipment, 
components and hose assemblies from its locations in Northern Ireland and the 
Republic of Ireland
•	 February 2016, Indequip, a UK distributor of pneumatic and hydraulic 
components and a leading catalogue brand was acquired by the Flowtechnology 
division
•	 March 2016, Hydravalve Ltd, a UK distributor of valves and associated products 
which will form the Group’s initial investment in its new “Process” division
•	 Active acquisition pipeline
Signposting icons to look out for within this report:
Read more in this  
Annual Report  
Read more in our 
Online Report   00
Read more in
Group at a Glance  
Read more in
Continuing Strong
Traditions  
06 26
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
01
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Financial and operational highlights
“ The original strategy presented 
at IPO in 2014 was to deliver 
profitable growth while maintaining 
consistent high levels of service to 
our diverse customer base — this 
remains our core philosophy.”
Sean Fennon 
Chief Executive Officer
Read more in the
Chief Executive  
Officer’s statement
Read more in the
Financial review  
Operational highlights
•	 Four acquisitions in line with strategy
•	 Revenue growth of 19% on previous year
•	 Margins maintained despite adverse market conditions
•	 Working capital targets met with debt capacity in place
•	 Centre of Engineering Excellence created in Knowsley, UK
•	 Data repository and web platform programme implemented
•	 Eaton Master Agreement signed
•	 Investment in people and infrastructure to support future growth
•	 New Process division established early 2016
•	 Nick Fossey appointed as first “Divisional Director” responsible 
specifically for development of the Power Motion Control division
Financial highlights
Final Dividend 3.50p
Interim Dividend 1.75p
2014: £6.7m
2013: £69.8m
27
29
02
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
Revenue 
£000
£32,104
£37,791
£44,848
2013 2014 2015
Operating Profit 
£000
£4,963
£3,325
£5,491
2013 2014 2015
Net Debt 
£000
Total Dividend 
Pence
Gross Profit 
£000
£11,330
£13,176
£15,345
2013 2014 2015
Underlying Operating Result* 
£000
£5,324
£6,146
£6,868
2013 2014 2015
*  Before separately disclosed items which are 
shown in the financial statements 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“Our management team’s 
confidence in delivering 
growth mainly by driving 
consolidation in what 
is a fragmented market 
sector continues with 
unabated optimism.”
Malcolm Diamond MBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Welcome to our Report and Accounts 
publication for the first full year of trading 
as a plc.
2015 and early 2016 has been an 
exciting period of positive development 
around the Group, encompassing the 
launching of over 6,300 new products 
along with broadened categories, four 
important acquisitions, strategic structural 
refinements for improved operating 
efficiencies and new data processing 
resources – all of which support and 
enhance market-leading customer service 
levels going forward.
Clearly, very few UK-based industrial 
organisations have totally escaped the 
impact of the oil price collapse, and in 
the first quarter of the year our subsidiary, 
Primary Fluid Power Limited suffered a 
20% reduction in orders and revenue 
as a direct result; however, after a swift 
redirection of sales focus into automotive 
and pharmaceuticals it had recovered 
normal revenue dynamics by the time we 
published our Interim results.
In June, the hose assembly function 
known as Vitassem, formerly based in 
the Skelmersdale distribution centre, was 
moved to the Primary factory in Knowsley 
eight miles away, thus releasing space for 
additional warehousing in what is now a 
pure distribution facility and consolidating 
all UK assembly operations on the one site.
The acquisition pipeline has been very 
active throughout the year, resulting 
in Albroco being bought at the end of 
May, and totally absorbed into Primary’s 
Knowsley site, thus yielding earnings 
enhancing synergies. In early July, Nelson 
Hydraulics (Northern Ireland and Dublin) 
joined the Group, along with its 40 staff and 
Managing Director Mark Nelson. These two 
additions when linked with Primary enabled 
the formation of a new specialist division, 
“Power Motion Control” (PMC) which is 
now under the leadership of Nick Fossey 
who joined us on 1 March 2016 from 
the Eaton Corporation. This realignment 
into two distinct divisions resulted in the 
decentralisation of the Group Marketing 
function and, after consultation, the 
departure of the Group Marketing Director 
Paul Watson on 22 October 2015. In 
turn, John Farmer, Flowtechnology UK’s 
Product Development Director was 
immediately appointed Managing Director 
of the Flowtechnology UK division. I also 
welcome Paul McGrady to the Operational 
Board as Managing Director of Primary. 
Formerly Sales Director at Primary, he 
succeeds Stephen Merrie who has 
now retired following a successful year 
overseeing the integration of Vitassem and 
Albroco into the Knowsley site.
In early September, a unique Master 
trading agreement was signed with the 
Hydraulics Group of the Eaton Corporation 
for the distribution of PMC products and 
the sole distribution of Eaton Winner hose, 
fittings and adaptors. The Flowtech Board 
consider this to be a significant marketing 
and service advantage within the sector, 
with revenue flow through anticipated in the 
second half of 2016.
T o underpin the Board’ s confidence in 
the dynamic progress of the Group over 
the past year, we committed to rewarding 
shareholders with a 5% increase in the 
dividend ahead of these results. Although 
at the time of writing, the negative macro-
economic environment and Brexit focus 
could be constraining investor confidence, 
we remain very optimistic about the future 
development and progress of this business.
You can be assured that our management 
team’ s confidence in delivering growth 
mainly by driving consolidation in what is a 
fragmented market sector continues with 
unabated optimism, whilst we gratefully 
acknowledge the ongoing support and 
loyalty of our shareholders.
Yours sincerely
Malcolm Diamond MBE 
Non-Executive Chairman 
12 April 2015
Non-Executive Chairman’s letter
Malcolm Diamond MBE, Non-Executive Chairman
Read more in 
44
Governance  
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
03
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“The year has seen a period of 
continued strong development 
with an uplift in revenue of 
19% over the previous year, 
our first as a PLC, and a 65% 
improvement in operating profit”
Sean Fennon
Chief Executive Officer
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
04 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strong balance sheet and 
cash generation, consistent 
GP% margins
Resulting in ongoing high 
double digit EBITA
Committed to a progressive 
dividend policy and 
delivering ongoing 
shareholder value
Leading edge technical 
know-how capabilities 
around the business to 
support a strong, diverse and 
robust customer base across 
a spread of leading industrial 
sectors
Focused on building a 
specialist fluid power group 
delivering high levels of 
customer service 24/7
Supported by highly skilled 
technical people capable of 
delivering what the customer 
needs at the right price and 
on time
Strength and depth of the 
ranges and brands within an 
international marketplace
Market leading operation 
led by a highly experienced 
management team with the 
combined skills to build an 
international footprint and 
product categories in line 
with its strategic objectives
Focus on market sectors 
which offer high long term 
growth potential
Reasons  
to invest
1 4
2 5
3 6
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
05
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Flowtechnology UK 66%
Flowtechnology Benelux 8%
Power Motion Control 26%
Division
Split
% 
Pneumatic 34%     
Industrial 22%
Hydraulic 44%
Sales
Split
% 
Group at a glance
The Group
Flowtech Fluidpower plc (“Flowtech” or 
“the Group”) is the leading distributor of 
technical fluid power products to over 
3,600 customers in the UK and Northern 
Europe. With modern distribution facilities 
in the UK, ROI and Benelux we offer an 
unrivalled range of both Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (“OEM”) products, as well as 
our own ranges sourced exclusively to the 
Group (“Exclusive Brands”).
During the year the Group had two 
operating divisions:
•	 Flowtechnology operating in the UK 
(“FTUK”) Northern Europe (“FTB”)
•	 Power Motion Control (“PMC”)
FTUK and FTB operate the same business 
model in the UK and Northern Europe 
respectively and focus on supplying 
distributors and resellers of industrial 
MRO (maintenance, repair and operation) 
products, primarily serving urgent orders 
rather than bulk offerings. The PMC division 
specialises in the design and assembly of 
engineering components and hydraulic 
systems, which are further enhanced by 
component supply along with a service and 
repair function. Since the year end a third 
division, “Process”, has been established 
which will focus on distribution of industrial 
components to the process sectors. All 
three divisions have overlapping product 
sets allowing procurement synergies to be 
exploited.
The Group has established a key position 
in the fluid power supply chain. The focus 
on core competencies within the fluid 
power market has been central to our 
continued success and this focus will 
support our long term strategy. In addition, 
Flowtech continues to deliver and develop 
its added value services to support its 
customers through organic development 
of its product ranges and acquisition of 
complementary businesses.
FTUK is based in Skelmersdale, 
Lancashire, where all Group functions are 
also located. In Europe, FTB operates from 
a single site in Deventer in the eastern 
region of Holland and services customers 
principally in Holland and Belgium. 
PMC operates from four sites. Originally 
established in Knowsley, Merseyside, 
sites in Lisburn and Dungannon, Northern 
Ireland and Dublin, ROI were added 
following the acquisition of the Nelson Fluid 
Power group (“NFP”) in July.
The Group’s business is directed by the 
Board and managed by the Executive 
Directors, led by the Chief Executive. To 
support the development and alignment 
of the Group’s business objectives, an 
Operational Board has been introduced to 
control and deliver the strategic goals as 
defined by the plc Board. This Operational 
Board includes the Managing Director from 
each business unit as well as the Group’s 
CEO and CFO. This team will maintain a 
clear focus on developing the business in 
line with market requirements.
06
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
FLOWTECHNOLOGY
CUSTOMER SUPPORT SERVICES
FLOWTECH FLUIDPOWER PLC
POWER MOTION CONTROL
FLOWTECHNOLOGY  
UK
DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL
Technical, catalogue-based through 3,000 customers
FTUK distributors  
FTB full market including end users
OEM & END USER CHANNEL
Hydraulic components, design, power pack build, 
purifiers, hose assembly and tube manipulation 
800 customers
PRIMARY
FLOWTECHNOLOGY 
BENELUX
NELSON 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Our complementary divisions
Trusted
brand
Customer
knowledge
Modern
facilities
Committed
people
Astute
acquisitions
Established
sourcing
Flowtech has a 
unique position 
in the market 
and a diverse 
customer base.
Our customer 
centric 
approach 
ensures we 
understand 
their needs.
Our presence 
in the Far East 
and supplier 
relationships 
there are 
accomplished.
Fully integrated 
IT systems and   
highly-
automated 
distribution 
centres.
Our team 
are highly 
motivated, with 
training and 
development 
to grow 
their crucial 
knowledge and 
expertise.
Our strong 
acquisition 
pipeline and 
strategy offer 
potential for 
signiﬁcant further 
expansion.
BEST
OVERALL GROUP
OFFERING
Unrivalled range
Our mix of generic, branded 
and our exclusive own brand 
products is unmatched in 
the market.
Provide site service 
engineers, scheduled 
maintenance plans and 
on site refurbishment.
Quality distribution
Aftersales support
Customer integration
We’re able to generate this value through our key enablers:
High service levels and rapid 
response times deliver the 
right products at the right time.
Our additional services make 
us integral to our customers’ 
marketing strategies.
Over 50 years’ experience 
of engineering design 
and assembly in the 
hydraulic markets.
Engineering expertise
‘One stop shop’ for ﬂuid
power products via easy
to use web trading systems.
Convenient systems
The Group has two operating divisions: Flowtechnology, geographically split into Flowtechnology UK (“FTUK”) and Flowtechnology Benelux 
(“FTB”); and Power Motion Control (“PMC”). FTUK and FTB operate the same business model in the UK and Northern Europe respectively 
and focus on supplying distributors and resellers of industrial MRO (maintenance, repair and operation) products, primarily serving urgent 
orders rather than bulk offerings. The PMC division specialises in the design and assembly of engineering components and hydraulic 
systems, which are further enhanced by component supply along with a service and repair function. The PMC division’ s aftersales supplies 
can be fulfilled by FTUK which offers 99% service levels for next day delivery and ensures facility usage is optimised across the Group. 
Since the year end a third division, “Process”, has been established which will focus on distribution of industrial components to the process 
sectors.
The divisions are supported by a centralised back office team at the Skelmersdale headquarters and a procurement and quality control 
team in Shanghai.
Read more in
Our business model  
Read more in
Sustainability  
14 34
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
07
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Flowtechnology UK
Key Facts
119
EMPLOYEES
80,000
SQ FT MODERN 
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
99%
OF ORDERS DESPATCHED 
IN FULL SAME DAY
3,900
AVERAGE PICKS PER DAY 
WITH AN ERROR RATE OF 
LESS THAN 0.25%
Flowtechnology UK was founded in 1983. It is a highly 
efficient business unit with a fully integrated end-to-end 
process delivering high service levels to its marketplace, 
and a deep stockholding to support its wide and varied 
customer base.
•	 Highly motivated staff and management are committed to 
delivering excellence to the customer base
•	 Continues to implement systems aimed at creating an ‘ease 
of transaction’ for its customers allowing a one-stop shop 
for fluid power products
•	 Innovative marketing programmes are in place to support 
customer growth
•	 Over 64% of orders are placed online, through a fully 
integrated web trading system
•	 Orders taken up until 10.00 pm can be delivered next day
•	 Extensive stockholding of over 37,000 product lines 
supports a class-leading service offering
•	 First in industry to offer a mobile app for orders, introduced 
May 2015
*  Before separately disclosed items and central costs which are shown in the 
financial statements note 3.
Group at a glance continued
Flowtechnology Benelux
Key Facts
23
EMPLOYEES  
20,000
SQ FT MODERN  
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
98%
OF ORDERS DESPATCHED 
IN FULL SAME DAY
502
AVERAGE PICKS PER DAY 
WITH AN ERROR RATE OF 
LESS THAN 0.3%
Flowtechnology Benelux was acquired in 2007. Since 2010 
significant restructuring has been undertaken and by 2014 
it was fully integrated into the Group’s operating systems. 
The change process has delivered a business with solid 
foundations which is now establishing a strong reputation 
in its marketplace.
•	 Single purpose-built unit, with integrated links to the  
UK business
•	 Over 55% of orders are placed online, through a fully 
integrated web trading system
•	 Orders taken up until 8.00 pm can be delivered next day
•	 The ongoing focus on sales development, service levels and 
increased customer support has seen the business increase 
its market penetration
•	 Customer development programmes are in place aimed 
at matching the regional requirements of each of the key 
sectors we serve
•	 Stockholding of over 12,000 product lines
08
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
Benelux Underlying 
Operating Result*  
€000
€575
€618
€532
2013 2014 2015
UK Underlying 
Operating Result*  
£000
£6,274
£6,899
£7,169
2013 2014 2015
Benelux Revenue
€000
€4,513
€4,807
€5,063
2013 2014 2015
UK Revenue
£000
£29,150
£30,706
£30,299
2013 2014 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Our locations
UK
The Group’s 80,000 sq.ft. UK distribution hub in 
Skelmersdale, Lancashire, houses its modern, highly 
automated distribution, operations centre and support 
functions. FTUK has a sales and technical support team 
responsible for order receipt and processing, marketing and 
business development, procurement, contract services and 
technical support.
Netherlands
FTB services approximately 900 distributors, resellers and 
end user customers in Northern Europe. FTB operates from 
a 20,000 sq.ft. warehouse in Deventer and uses the same 
integrated IT platform as the UK business, with back office 
functions provided from the UK.
China
The Group’s Chinese operations consist of a procurement 
team in Shanghai and a 18,000 sq.ft. logistics centre in 
Guangzhou. The operation was established in 2014 and is 
used as a centrepoint for quality control and container load 
optimisation.
Our exclusive brands Global OME brands
Our products
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
09
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 25 April 2016 2:04 PM Proof 1
Group at a glance continued
Power Motion Control (“PMC”)
Key Facts
98
EMPLOYEES
62,000
SQ FT OPERATING  
FACILITY
97%
DELIVERY  
TARGETS ACHIEVED
79%
TENDERS WON 
The PMC division incorporates Primary Fluid Power (“PFP”) 
acquired in 2014 and this year’s acquisitions: Albroco and 
Nelson Fluid Power (“NFP”). The trade of Albroco has been 
smoothly integrated into the Primary operations whilst Nelson 
continues to operate independently under local management. 
All three acquisitions benefit from the synergies created within 
the Group for procurement and shared support costs.
•	 Technically-based hydraulics business and holds a strong 
market position, focusing on the delivery of components, 
hydraulic equipment, hose assemblies and power packs to the 
OEM marketplace
•	 Long-standing reputation for assembly and service excellence, 
servicing a wide range of industrial sectors including: mobile, oil 
and gas, environmental, industrial and life sciences
•	 Acquisition of NFP adds a customer base in Ireland with 
emphasis in the crushing and screening, agricultural and marine 
and fishing sectors
•	 Acquisition of NFP adds substantial strength to the Group’ s 
procurement position in hydraulic components, hose and couplings
•	 Successfully retained Albroco’s customers bringing significant 
opportunities to sell existing PFP products
PMC Underlying 
Operating Result*  
£000
£369
£1,228
2014 2015
PMC Revenue
£000
£3,939
£11,911
2014 2015
Our locations
UK
PFP’s 25,000 sq.ft. facility in Knowsley, Merseyside, houses 
our ‘Centre of Engineering Excellence’ as well as sales, 
technical design, procurement and business development 
teams. PFP design, manufacture and assemble their own 
brand products including manifold blocks, valves, tube 
couplings and adaptors. Quality assurance is controlled 
with modern CNC technology and product application and 
testing capability.
NFP has two sites in Lisburn and Dungannon totalling 
27,000 sq.ft. housing six hose assembly lines, power pack 
assembly facilities and warehousing.
Republic of Ireland
NFP has one site in Dublin of 10,000 sq.ft. accommodating 
one hose assembly line, warehousing and support staff.
Our products
•	 Hydraulic rubber and thermoplastic hose assembly kits
•	 Design and supply of bespoke power units and  
power packs
•	 Electrical control panels
•	 Transmission, steering and electrical control for mobile 
hydraulic equipment
•	 Purification and filtration systems
•	 Manipulated pipe and individual machined components
* Before separately disclosed items which are shown in the financial statements.
10
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
Flowtech AR2015 Front.indd   10 27/04/2016   12:40:37 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
11
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Our marketplace
The British Fluid Power Association 
economic forecast is predicting continued 
growth in the UK hydraulic and pneumatic 
markets with an average annual growth 
rate of 2.5% for hydraulics and 3.0% for 
pneumatics during 2016 to 2019. This is 
despite unexpected developments in the 
global economy such as steep oil price 
drops, the Chinese economic slowdown 
and the weakening euro. Positive factors in 
the UK economy include the re-emerging 
construction market and associated mobile 
equipment sector and the underlying 
strength of key pneumatics-using sectors 
such as transport equipment, industrial 
electronics and precision equipment.
Pneumatic
The pneumatics market has been more 
resilient to downward global trends and has 
been supported by the transport equipment 
industry which has not been as impacted by 
the strong pound. Acquisitions by the Group 
in the year have provided entry into sectors 
proving to be resistant to negative global 
trends. UK distributors have performed 
above industry expectations and this trend 
is expected to continue through the next 
four years.
Hydraulic
Whilst the overall hydraulics market suffers 
from global pressures, UK distributors have 
managed to defy the negative impacts with 
high-frequency orders running well ahead 
of the overall market. Research continues 
to suggest that larger manufacturers are 
increasingly relying on these distribution 
channels. Market share is expected to 
increase incrementally for distributors who 
are equipped to offer competitive pricing 
and modern inventory management, 
services that are actively supported by 
FTUK in its distributor partnerships.
estimated UK hydraulic 
component market
UK export market
Industrial
The Group has a wide and varied customer 
base which in turn services an extensive 
range of industrial sectors, spreading 
the risk of adverse market conditions. 
The engineering sector is predicted to 
experience slower growth rates than the 
first half of the decade, but is expecting 
growth in key pneumatics-using sectors. 
In contrast, the construction sectors, of 
residential, non-residential and civils are all 
demonstrating a positive outlook supported 
by ongoing government initiatives. Extensive 
projects such as Crossrail and the likely 
upcoming expansion of London’ s airport 
capacity should ensure that transportation 
construction will remain robust over the 
coming years. This has direct benefits to 
the PMC and Process divisions and FTUK 
is impacted indirectly through its customer 
base. Another key sector for the Group is 
transport which is also predicted to expand 
with continued investment in several UK 
factories from Nissan, Honda and BMW.
Key market  
trends
“The British Fluid Power 
Association economic 
forecast is predicting 
continued growth in 
the UK hydraulic and 
pneumatic markets 
with an average annual 
growth rate of 2.5% for 
hydraulics and 3.0% for 
pneumatics during 2016 
to 2019.”
estimated UK pneumatic 
equipment market
UK export market
12
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Our supply chain
The Group prides itself on building 
long-standing partnerships with its OEM 
suppliers and in September was extremely 
pleased to announce the signing of 
a master trading agreement with the 
Hydraulics Group of the Eaton Corporation 
for the distribution of PMC products and 
the sole distribution of Eaton Winner hose, 
hose fittings and adaptors. The Flowtech 
Group of companies have had a long 
association with Eaton which dates back 
over 25 years. During this period, Primary 
Fluid Power became Eaton’s leading PMC 
(power motion control) distributor and 
provider of total systems capability  
for branded Eaton Vickers Power Units  
in the UK.
The Group constantly looks to optimise its 
product offering. The business therefore 
nurtures its relationships with UK and 
European OEM suppliers whilst developing 
its complementary Exclusive Brands. The 
ability to develop and extend the range 
of Exclusive Brands in line with industry 
requirements has been accomplished 
by developing stronger relationships and 
working closely with the Far East supply 
base. This ensures targets in consistency 
of quality, high technical specification and 
product performance are achieved.
With the ongoing recruitment of locally-
based employees in the Far East, coupled 
with the quickening pace of the sourcing 
programme, it was important that the 
Group moved quickly to create a more 
efficient stockholding strategy; a policy 
that will in time reduce the UK footprint 
and cost base, and streamline the overall 
Far East supply chain. The establishment 
of a small logistics facility in Guangdong 
province in southern China is the first step 
in a long term plan to extend resources 
in the region and support future growth 
across the Group.
Read more in
Our Business Model  
Read more in
Sustainability  
14
34
“The Group prides 
itself on building long-
standing partnerships 
with its OEM suppliers.”
“The Group constantly looks 
to optimise its product 
offering. The business 
therefore nurtures its 
relationships with UK and 
European OEM suppliers 
whilst developing its 
complementary Exclusive 
Brands.”
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
13
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Our business model
Our business  
model
We ensure we are a dynamic business for our customers by 
continually developing our offering, from sourcing to distribution 
of products, to our bespoke design, manufacture and partnering 
services. The models of our two divisions support our strategy of 
achieving a focused fluid power group. They are supported by our 
Group central services and our key enablers.
What Flowtechnology does
As the leading distributor of technical fluid power products, 
Flowtechnology offers an unrivalled range of OEM and Exclusive 
Brand products in the UK and Northern Europe.
Bespoke branding
and marketing offering
❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱
Technical support 
and training
Design and 
assembly
‘Best in industry’
service offering
Modern distribution 
centres in UK, ROI, 
Netherlands and China
Global Delivery
Innovative 
marketing 
programmes
Multi-channel
approach
Established catalogue 
distributed to more 
than 85,000 end users
 
Team based 
in the Far East
Circa 850
suppliers
Access to over half 
a million products
Always maintaining 
appropriate stock levels
Knowledge
of customers’
product needs
Source
Sales &
Marketing
Distribute
Partner
14
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
What PMC does
Alongside distribution of Flowtechnology-sourced components and products, PMC delivers bespoke solutions and complete systems 
for customers in a number of industries.
❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱
❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱❱
Customer need
PMC has established long term relationships
with our customers based on our expertise
and quality assurance, enabling us to identify
opportunities for improvement in their equipment.
Engineering and design
capability come together
to provide unique
solutions, which we
can also manufacture
and install. We can also
supply parts for larger
assemblies via repeated
manufacture. We look
to continually improve
design for our customers.
Design,
Manufacture
& Install
If it’s identiﬁed that an
existing Flowtech product
can meet this need, then
PMC can supply it.
Sales
Aftersales
Alongside service and
repair support for hydraulic
and pneumatic components,
including access to parts
and products via
Flowtechnology, desire to
improve the design from
both sides will often
start the process again.
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
15
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Our business model continued
We ensure we are a dynamic business for our customers by 
continually developing our offering, from sourcing to distribution 
of products, to our bespoke design, manufacture and partnering 
services. The models of our two divisions support our strategy of 
achieving a focused fluid power group. They are supported by our 
Group central services and our key enablers.
Shared services
We acquire established, specialist businesses that extend our 
Group capability, but we believe in maintaining their heritage, 
individuality and specialism. Ensuring consistency for their 
customers is important to us, so we simply improve these 
businesses with our Group central services.
MANAGEMENT FINANCE MARKETING
CREATIVE 
SERVICES
IT HR
Group central services
Service Centre team
Based at the UK headquarters in Skelmersdale, Lancashire, the 
Service Centre team covers the disciplines of finance, human 
resources, marketing, design and IT for the Group. As Group 
IT systems and working practices are introduced into new 
acquisitions with standardised methods of working, we are certain 
growth can be successfully supported by the existing small team.
Acquisitions team
During the year the Group has continued to develop its skill base 
in all aspects necessary for a successful acquisition programme. 
Sean Fennon and Bryce Brooks are responsible for target 
identification and lead negotiation, supported by Chris Kershaw 
who has previously worked in a series of M&A roles, including 
Group M&A Director at Spice plc. During the due diligence 
process Bryce and Chris are supported by professionals from the 
following organisations:
•	 Legals – DLA
•	 Tax, Accounting and Financial Due Diligence – KPMG, Grant 
Thornton, PwC
•	 HR and Management Consulting – Collinson Grant and Mercer
•	 Insurance – Marsh
The immediate post integration team is now led by internal 
appointments in Business Process and IT, and Financial Control, 
with follow on work undertaken in Corporate Governance, Risk 
Management and Business Continuity Planning. This entire 
process is structured under a ‘100 Day’ project management 
philosophy led by the CFO.
TRUSTED 
BRAND
CUSTOMER  
KNOWLEDGE
ESTABLISHED  
SOURCING
MODERN  
FACILITIES
COMMITTED  
PEOPLE
ASTUTE  
ACQUISITIONS
Group key enablers
Read more in
Our complimentary divisions  
07
Acquisitions team pictured left to right:  
Anne Fogg, Business Process Manager 
Chris Kershaw, M&A Consultant 
Jon Burke, Group Financial Controller 
Bryce Brooks, Chief Financial Officer 
Helen Barratt, Head of Corporate Governance
16
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
17
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Growth
Acquisition and 
integration
Brand 
positioning
E-Commerce 
and business 
intelligence
Supply chain
People
Products and 
sourcing
Our strategy
Our strategy
The Group has a clear 
view of its growth 
objectives – to create 
a specialist fluid power 
organisation that 
remains focused on 
its core competencies 
whilst servicing the 
varied industrial and 
manufacturing sectors 
through its delivery of 
‘class-leading’ service 
and support. Our long 
term growth model 
is based on both 
organic growth coupled 
with complementary 
acquisitions in a very 
fragmented marketplace.
Read more in
Our KPIs  
Read more in
Chief Executive Officer’s statement  
21
27
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
18 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic focus Description Highlights
Brand  
positioning
Brand and the ability to maintain and build a 
reputation is critical to our long term development. 
For all future acquisitions, brand and reputation will 
be paramount with the intention to maintain any local 
company branding and build on its existing position.
Product brand expansion continues to be a key 
strategy for the Group.
Acquisitions since flotation have strong brand names within their 
sectors and remain operationally independent under the original 
name and corporate branding.
Eight new Exclusive Brands were added to our portfolio, now 26 
brands in total.
Acquisition  
and integration
The strategy is to acquire complementary 
businesses operating in specific channels, highly 
focused, commercially independent operations 
delivering quality customer service at all times.
Integration projects are ongoing to streamline 
all processes across the Group to ensure every 
operation can minimise its administration burden 
and concentrate on delivering growth.
Acquisitions since flotation have brought substantial new skills, 
knowledge, access to new markets for fluid power components 
and capable management teams.
Finance and HR processes have been migrated to the Service Centre 
leaving local management free to focus on delivering their growth 
strategies.
E-Commerce 
and business 
intelligence
The Flowtechnology operation has always been 
innovative in its use of e-commerce and our website 
is fully integrated to our stock control systems. With 
64% of Flowtechnology customers ordering online in 
the UK we are committed to continually improving the 
customer website and will be launching a new website 
in 2016.
Business intelligence initiatives create insight which 
enables us to improve our products, our inventory 
management and pricing strategies.
First in the industry to introduce a mobile App in 2015. This 
features basic mobile phone ordering plus bar code scanning 
and technical sheet downloads.
Invested in creating data cubes linking warehouse and logistics 
data.
Global data repository project initiated.
Read the global data repository 
case study on page  
20
Products and 
sourcing
We aim to have a market position as a one-stop 
shop supplier of fluid power products. The ongoing 
expansion of ranges will see the Group capture a 
greater percentage of current customer spend and 
also open up new business opportunities in the 
wider market.
The business nurtures its relationships with its OEM 
suppliers whilst developing its complementary 
Exclusive Brands. 
The acquisition of Albroco has given us an enhanced presence in 
the new product range of electro-mechanical control products.
Master trading agreement with the Hydraulics Group of the Eaton 
Corporation for the sole distribution of Eaton Winner hose, hose 
fittings and adaptors.
Expansion of our sourcing team based in Shanghai.
Supply chain
In the Flowtechnology segments we consistently 
achieve our service level targets of 99% orders 
delivered next day, this is underpinned by our 
strategy in products and sourcing and sound 
inventory management. We have built long term 
partnerships with our suppliers and quality logistics 
companies to enable us to provide the pace and 
responsiveness our customers demand.
Where acquisitions include distribution operations 
they will be integrated into the Flowtechnology 
segments to provide synergy savings for the benefit 
of all our stakeholders.
To ensure service levels are never compromised we have 
substantially improved the business continuity plan. In addition, the 
Skelmersdale warehouse now has the capability to supply 60% of 
Benelux sales, next day, in the event of an emergency.
Reorganisation of assembly operations to create our ‘Centre of 
Engineering Excellence’ at Knowsley.
People
People are one of our strongest assets and as well 
as recruiting new talent, we are keen to acquire 
companies who value the importance of their 
workforce and share our values of continuing strong 
traditions.
Investing in our management teams brings 
the benefits of improved retention and talent 
identification for succession planning. We see 
training and development of employees as key to 
our strategy to achieving our overall goals.
Nelson was acquired with the majority of the senior team having 
over 25 years service with the company.
The Primary in-house training programme was rolled out to all 
UK employees. UK managers benefited from NLP training to 
improve skills and capabilities.
Nick Fossey joined the Group from Eaton Corporation in March 
2016 and has become the Group’s first “Divisional Director” 
responsible for development of Power Motion Control division. 
Nick has gained an extensive knowledge of the hydraulics 
distribution sector internationally, particularly within Europe, which 
will be invaluable to the future development of our business model.
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
19
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Case study — Global data repository project
The Group’s strategy for growth is based around our ability to 
serve the fluid power market across multi-branded businesses, 
utilising multi-platform customer interfaces, delivering market-
leading service across multi-channels.
A fundamental issue is the standardisation of product data. A 
clear problem that has been an issue within the industry for 
many years. However, in each business new products create 
little problem as they are created within a pre-set and defined 
structure.
The issue arises when there is a non-prescriptive method of 
product creation, which can produce multiple product records for 
the same article. This issue is exacerbated when a business has 
an acquisition programme, as the new businesses not only have 
product creation issues but the base product structure may be 
completed differently to the standard Group structures.
The Group’s ability to solve this problem is crucial to our long 
term development. The consolidation and optimisation of the 
product set will create a solid platform to implement both 
procurement and inventory synergies delivering improvements in 
service, margin and cash generation.
A central product creation team has been created to manage the 
long term process of consolidation and development. The team 
operates as a central resource and will manage the day-to-day 
creation issues for the Group as well as the consolidation of 
acquired businesses product files.
A Group-wide programme has been implemented with the aim 
of delivering a single Global Data Repository, a programme that 
is aimed at feeding the multi-trading platforms across the Group 
and thereby satisfy the many different system structures which 
will enable the Group to consolidate and optimise its product set.
This Data Repository needs to be flexible enough to manage 
multiple structures yet still allow consolidation of both data and 
images. This amalgamation of the data, formatted and fully 
attributed, will feed the trading systems as well as being used 
to create focused promotional materials and channel specific 
catalogues.
Web Platform
The core business is based on a simple premise: to create a 
series of customer touchpoints making it easy for customers to 
trade with us. The original introduction of the FTUK web platform 
was created as a customer ordering portal allowing the business 
to fulfil its service proposition, taking orders up to 10.00 pm 
and delivering next day. The web was developed to create a 
seamless link to the ERP system allowing the allocation of stock 
and other integrated processes which created advantage for our 
customer base.
The development of the Global Data Repository with its 
enhanced capabilities and flexible features has created the 
opportunity to redevelop and deploy a fully integrated web 
solution across the Group companies. This platform has also 
been designed to be fully configurable for each business within 
the Group whilst being able to deliver a user experience which 
matches each of the customer types in the various trading 
channels, and therefore allows the trading businesses to 
maximise the experience for their own specific customer base.
“A Group wide programme has been 
implemented with the aim of delivering 
a single Global Data Repository which 
will enable the Group to consolidate 
and optimise its product set.”
20
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Operational Board regularly monitors a range of financial and non-financial performance indicators to allow it to measure 
performance against expected targets. The following represents a selection of these indicators.
KPI Definition and link to strategy Performance
Daily gross profit 
generated
The accurate daily reporting of gross profit achieved by each operating division 
across the Group with comparison to prior year is a fundamental performance 
measure. This is further supported by additional calculations giving indicative 
full month estimates on a daily basis. As part of any acquisition programme, 
new businesses that join the Group will be required to comply with this daily 
reporting requirement as soon as it is practicable. The primary benefit is to 
allow the Operational Board to reinforce close scrutiny of trading performance, 
provide local management focus and an early indication of any negative 
growth, if evident. The majority of staff reward schemes by way of monthly 
bonus payments are linked to any growth in gross profit achieved.
FTUK (£000)
2013
40.28
43.44
2014 2015
43.69
FTB (£000)
2013
4.79
5.40
2014 2015
5.48
PMC (£000)
9.09
2014 2015
12.73
Monthly sales and 
gross profit by 
customer account 
and product
We have a clear focus on the management of profitability at customer 
and product levels. Within the Group’s IT systems, appropriate Business 
Intelligence modules are maintained to allow ease of analysis on a timely basis 
to both underpin sales development initiatives at a strategic and tactical level, 
and to quickly identify underperformance.
Revenue
2013
£32,104
£37,791
2014 2015
£46,036
Gross profit
2013
£11,330
£13,178
2014 2015
£15,345
Stock provisions 
calculated at item 
level
The Group maintains accurate stock provision measures down to item level 
on a minimum twice monthly basis. This can then be analysed by individual 
product group or supplier to ensure that action to alleviate any potential costs 
associated with slow-moving or redundant items can be made at the earliest 
point in a product life-cycle.
Stock provisions as a  
percentage of total stock
2013
10%
9%
2014 2015
7%
Operating profit 
before separately 
disclosed items
The Group reports on a standard calendar monthly basis using a consistent 
format across all trading businesses and, as well as sales and the gross 
margin measures, will include comparison of cost types detailing actual 
against 12 month average, year-to-date and prior year-to-date.
Underlying operating result*
2013
£5,324
£6,146
2014 2015
£8,799
Service levels – 
Flowtechnology 
division
The aim of the Flowtechnology division is to provide a wide and deep product 
range, competitive pricing, consistently high service levels and a unique 
dependable next day delivery. These attributes are all linked to optimised 
inventory levels to provide an unparalleled customer support service. This is 
measured by the percentage of orders despatched same day.
Service levels (Flowtechology)
2013
98%
99%
2014 2015
99%
*  Before separately disclosed 
items which are shown in 
the financial statements
Performance across all 
segments remains strong
Granular KPI review has led to overall growth 
targets been achieved
Regular review of KPIs and remedial action 
has reduced provision requirements
Performance across all 
segments remains strong
Supply chain and logistics continue 
to deliver consistent performance
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
21
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Case study — Living our values
Delivering tailored solutions
Lee tunnel project — a sophisticated tailored solution, 
improving the environment.
Primary Fluid Power has a long established reputation for providing 
sophisticated hydraulic solutions to customers throughout the UK. 
As part of a major project to upgrade London’s sewer system, 
PFP lived up to their reputation and designed, manufactured and 
delivered the key components to help manage sewage through 
the sewerage system and are proud to form part of the solution 
that will help the environment; estimated to reduce 40% of the 
volume of sewage – currently 39 million tonnes per year – flowing 
untreated into the Thames at Beckton, east of London.
Background
The Lee Tunnel Shafts are London’s largest and deepest ever 
shafts; the scheme aims to eliminate sewage discharges to the 
River Lee, via an enormous tunnelling system. The tunnel is the 
first stage of improvements to London’s sewer system which 
will remove combined discharges of storm water and sewage 
to the River Thames and lower River Lee. The tunnel, which will 
have an internal diameter of 7.2m, is being constructed at an 
average of 75m below the ground, running 6.9km from the Abbey 
Mills Pumping Station to the Beckton Sewage Treatment Works 
(“STW”) in East London. The tunnel is required to store 350,000m
3
 
of storm water and sewage, which is pumped out to Beckton 
STW following each tunnel’s filling event.
Collaboration
With the scale of the project being extremely large and complex, 
including five huge diaphragm wall shafts with depths of 70 to 80 
metres —the largest ever built in the United Kingdom —working 
in collaboration was critical in order to achieve precise customer 
requirements and meet deadlines.
Following numerous constructive meetings and phone calls 
between the customer and PFP’s team of experienced engineers, 
a solution was agreed resulting in the design and manufacture 
of the power pack. The power pack was designed to provide 
the strength to open and close the tunnels gates and allow the 
sewage to flow. As the project developed, PFP were also able 
supply the cylinders, capable of moving over 16 million tonnes of 
waste water annually, which are used to power the gates, as well 
as manifold blocks and piping to facilitate the completion of the 
hydraulic system required to control and power the Thames Valley 
sewage tunnels.
Flexibility
As with all projects of such a nature the customer’s requirements 
changed as new challenges unfolded. The sophisticated 
requirements to electronically control the systems resulted in a 
number of last minute changes to the electrical design which PFP 
were able to implement, providing a tailored solution on time and 
on budget.
Delivery
The team at PFP pride themselves on listening to customers’ 
requirements, developing cost effective tailored solutions and 
delivering on time. As a result, customers trust PFP and strong 
relationships prevail. This project has been no different and PFP 
look forward to supporting the customer in the future stages of the 
Lee Tunnel Project.
“With the scale of the project being 
extremely large and complex, working 
in collaboration was critical in 
order to achieve precise customer 
requirements and meet deadlines.”
“The team at PFP pride themselves on 
listening to customers’ requirements, 
developing cost effective tailored 
solutions and delivering on time. ”
22
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
22 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
23
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
overall company turnover.
YOUR 
BRAND
beneﬁts
identity
loyalty
values
image
trust
functionality
associations
personality
awareness
perception
attributes
preference
“Visual content makes up 93% 
of all human communication” 
Send visual posts to your customers using 
branded or bespoke artwork. Do something 
different – educate, get customers talking 
about your brand or the brands you sell. 
Social media
“Each day is a brand new opportunity… 
to promote your brand”
On your customers’ desks every day of the week. 
How will you tell your story?
Your catalogue cover
Personalised catalogue pages
The ideal opportunity to tell your story in detail. 
Showcase core products and services. 
List opening times and delivery options. 
Display unique selling points.
Direct emails
Industry knowledge
Segment your customers and 
tailor your message accordingly. 
“More focus = more return”
We can supply:
· Industry reports
· Lists of potential customers in your area
Biennial convention
Best in industry convention.
Sales support material
·  Leaﬂets and brochures  
·  Trade counter displays / wall charts
·  Roller banners and branded packaging
·  Installation guides / presentations 
   for your TV or iPad
·  Editable ﬂyers – easily personalise 
   your own leaﬂets
Online 24/7
Bespoke branded website
·  Easier trading for existing customers     
   with direct shipping options on orders 
   up to 10pm
·  Promote new products outside 
   current catalogue
·  Identify new leads and convert    
   business
FTUK website
·  0.5% online discount
·  My Account section
Adverts & PR
· Local papers
· Industry publications
· Online
Regular ﬂuid power 
training sessions at 
FTUK or on-site.
Training
Reach Your
Customers…
Send Flowtechnology 
communications to your own 
customers – stock awareness, 
new products, monthly offers.
Utilise the FTUK 
marketing 
 service
Case study
The 2015/16 Catalogue Cover of the Year was 
awarded to a company who realised the 
potential of promoting their business in 
alignment with the local community. 
They chose an iconic local image and 
incorporated ﬂuid power products. By fully 
utilising FTUK’s design team they created a 
rather unique visual representation and a strong 
brand presence for the catalogue year, which 
generated a signiﬁcant amount of local PR and 
contributed to a substantial increase in their 
overall company turnover.
Nurturing solid partnerships
Flowtechnology UK is committed to supporting its Distributors through sharing the skills 
and experiences of its marketing and design teams. During 2015 we have run various 
initiatives to make our Distributors aware of their branding and highlight the services we 
offer to help them develop and promote their brand.
Case study — Living our values
24
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
overall company turnover.
YOUR 
BRAND
beneﬁts
identity
loyalty
values
image
trust
functionality
associations
personality
awareness
perception
attributes
preference
“Visual content makes up 93% 
of all human communication” 
Send visual posts to your customers using 
branded or bespoke artwork. Do something 
different – educate, get customers talking 
about your brand or the brands you sell. 
Social media
“Each day is a brand new opportunity… 
to promote your brand”
On your customers’ desks every day of the week. 
How will you tell your story?
Your catalogue cover
Personalised catalogue pages
The ideal opportunity to tell your story in detail. 
Showcase core products and services. 
List opening times and delivery options. 
Display unique selling points.
Direct emails
Industry knowledge
Segment your customers and 
tailor your message accordingly. 
“More focus = more return”
We can supply:
· Industry reports
· Lists of potential customers in your area
Biennial convention
Best in industry convention.
Sales support material
·  Leaﬂets and brochures  
·  Trade counter displays / wall charts
·  Roller banners and branded packaging
·  Installation guides / presentations 
   for your TV or iPad
·  Editable ﬂyers – easily personalise 
   your own leaﬂets
Online 24/7
Bespoke branded website
·  Easier trading for existing customers     
   with direct shipping options on orders 
   up to 10pm
·  Promote new products outside 
   current catalogue
·  Identify new leads and convert    
   business
FTUK website
·  0.5% online discount
·  My Account section
Adverts & PR
· Local papers
· Industry publications
· Online
Regular ﬂuid power 
training sessions at 
FTUK or on-site.
Training
Reach Your
Customers…
Send Flowtechnology 
communications to your own 
customers – stock awareness, 
new products, monthly offers.
Utilise the FTUK 
marketing 
 service
Case study
The 2015/16 Catalogue Cover of the Year was 
awarded to a company who realised the 
potential of promoting their business in 
alignment with the local community. 
They chose an iconic local image and 
incorporated ﬂuid power products. By fully 
utilising FTUK’s design team they created a 
rather unique visual representation and a strong 
brand presence for the catalogue year, which 
generated a signiﬁcant amount of local PR and 
contributed to a substantial increase in their 
overall company turnover.
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
25
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Continuing strong traditions
Our acquisition strategy is to acquire complementary businesses 
operating in specific channels; highly focused, commercially 
independent operations delivering quality customer service at 
all times. The acquisition of Nelson Fluid Power exemplifies the 
type of business we want to bring into the Group and we were 
especially impressed by the strength of its relationships with both 
customers and suppliers, built from the strong traditions of a family 
business and the experienced, long serving management team.
Employees
Prior to acquisition the company was still under the management 
of the founding family and post acquisition the management 
team remains in place under the one remaining family member, 
Managing Director, Mark Nelson. Employees are treated as family 
and this is reflected in the average length of service of 14 years 
with the longest service being 49 years. The culture is for everyone 
in the business to understand the customer, to understand the 
products and understand the two together.
Customers
New customers have been attracted through the strength of the 
brand and reputation of Nelson. They have been retained through 
Nelson’s willingness to put the customer first and to go the extra 
mile to always supply what the customer wants. Quality and 
service levels are always kept to a high standard to ensure the 
company’s core philosophy of customer satisfaction is achieved.
Suppliers
The company believes that the cheapest price is not always 
the best and it applies standards focused on value, loyalty and 
integrity when dealing with suppliers. This style has successfully 
built relationships with long-standing mutual support. Their choice 
of suppliers is popular with customers as they know the finished 
product will consistently be supplied made from the best quality 
components from well-established, respected brands from within 
the industry.
Change management
The company also prides itself on being able to accommodate 
change. More customers are moving to just-in-time delivery 
arrangements and Nelson has quickly adapted and made the 
required changes to stockholdings. Customer design requirements 
continually change and the traditions of putting the customer first 
and a focus on customer satisfaction ensure these changes are 
accommodated. Nelson will also seek change with customers 
to make sure certain products are continually improved and new 
technical advances can be utilised.
Mission Statement
Nelson Hydraulics Limited is 
committed to bringing the best 
personal and professional service to 
our customers worldwide within the 
hydraulics industry. Our core value is 
customer satisfaction.
Case study — Living our values
26
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“Whilst our acquisition 
activity has been fruitful, 
there continues to be 
significant opportunity 
to achieve organic 
growth through a 
wide range of revenue 
enhancing development 
programmes linked to 
this focused acquisition 
strategy.”
Sean Fennon
Chief Executive Officer
Summary review
The year has seen a period of continued 
strong development with an uplift in 
revenue of 19% over the previous year, our 
first as a PLC, and a 65% improvement 
in operating profit. At the same time, we 
can safely say that 2015 was a challenging 
year for all, with continued pressure being 
exerted on the industrial marketplace 
driven by the crisis in oil and gas markets 
and all its associated industries. In addition, 
this has been linked to more volatile 
currency fluctuations between sterling and 
our main trading partners.
Therefore, the result achieved gives a 
clear indication of the resilience of our 
core activities, and we firmly believe this 
represents a creditable outcome for the 
business as a whole.
The original strategy presented at IPO 
in 2014 was to deliver profitable growth 
while maintaining consistent high levels of 
service to our diverse customer base — 
this remains our core philosophy. Whilst our 
acquisition activity has been fruitful, there 
continues to be significant opportunity to 
achieve organic growth through a wide 
range of revenue enhancing development 
programmes linked to this focused 
acquisition strategy.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Acquisitions
Our strategy has assisted us to further 
increase market penetration and 
positioning. In 2014, when we acquired 
Primary Fluid Power, we were able to 
establish a firm footing in the distribution 
of technically advanced hydraulic 
components and power packs. During 
2015, by adding Albroco and Nelson 
Hydraulics, we had the critical mass to 
form a ‘Power Motion Control’ division 
(“PMC”) thus giving us an overall advantage 
in the marketplace through the creation 
of an OEM-focused hydraulic specialist, 
backed by a strong technical offering, 
across a wide and varied customer base. 
The integration of Albroco and Nelson has 
been extremely smooth with the process 
beginning to deliver a series of synergies 
in addition to the new income streams 
brought into the Group.
As part of this development, we have 
now recruited Nick Fossey as Divisional 
Managing Director of the PMC division. 
Nick joined us from a senior position at 
Eaton Hydraulics, and he brings a wealth of 
knowledge and experience to the business, 
as well as a deep network of contacts 
across Europe, the Middle East and  
the USA.
Our linkage to Eaton Hydraulics has been 
further cemented through the signing 
in September 2015 of a master trade 
distributor agreement which creates a 
long term partnership for the supply of 
Eaton PMC products to the UK and Irish 
markets. In addition, Eaton has granted 
sole distribution rights for Eaton Winner 
hose, fittings and adaptors to the Group in 
the UK. The agreement represents a huge 
opportunity for both companies to develop 
and deliver a sales growth strategy using 
our combined strengths of world class 
manufacturing and distribution.
Finally, following the year end, we were very 
pleased to add Indequip, in February, and 
Hydravalve, in March, to our portfolio, the 
latter establishing a new “Process” division. 
Both will remain commercially independent, 
but now as part of the Flowtech Group 
they will be able to take advantage of the 
wider product offer, technical backup and 
marketing resources available.
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
27
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Managing our inventory and 
product data
A fundamental part of the Group strategy 
revolves around how we manage inventory. 
This is not only in terms of the financial 
investment, but also the product set that 
is used across all of the trading units and 
this subsequently affects how we are able 
to optimise the synergies these operations 
can achieve. In order to maximise these 
synergies, a major IT development project 
was instigated in mid-2015 with the aim of 
consolidating the Group’s entire product 
set, allowing each autonomous business to 
reap the benefits of being part of a larger 
organisation without the need for wholesale 
system change. The use of cutting edge 
web and data warehouse systems will 
allow this to be completed cost effectively 
and ensure that our substantial data 
resources in both range, graphics and 
pricing can be exploited seamlessly across 
the Group.
The creation of this ‘Global Data 
Repository’ has been implemented to 
enable the Group to consolidate and 
optimise the product set across all trading 
units. This programme will feed the multi-
trading platforms across the business units 
delivering major benefits, both financial 
and operational. This will be of increasing 
value as we expand via acquisition allowing 
further benefit to be exploited.
People
A further pleasing aspect of the year has 
been the development of our Operational 
Board which was established to promote 
information flow between the businesses 
and enable the Group to focus on key 
market, customer and supply chain 
initiatives. Initially, the Operations Board 
included the plc Executive Directors, 
Mark Richardson from Flowtech Benelux 
and Stephen Merrie. Following Stephen 
Merrie’s retirement from Primary, Paul 
McGrady has been promoted to allow 
an unbroken transition which has 
already created a strong start to 2016. 
Following the acquisition of Nelson, the 
Managing Director, Mark Nelson joined 
the Operational Board. Working with new 
Divisional Director, Nick Fossey, our PMC 
teams will be able to exploit the solid 
foundation created during the year and 
use the undoubted advantages created as 
part of a wider group. In Flowtechnology, 
John Farmer has also stepped up into the 
leadership role following many years in the 
sales and purchasing functions, and has 
brought a top to bottom understanding 
of our core operation. Finally we are 
very pleased that Andy Newham Senior, 
who has successfully led the Hydravalve 
operation for many years, will join the 
Operational Board from May bringing 
with him over 30 years’ knowledge of the 
process industries which we believe will be 
invaluable as we develop this new division 
over the coming years.
Outlook
When our 2015 results are coupled 
with the more challenging conditions 
experienced across the majority of 
industrial sectors, we believe they give 
further evidence of the resilience of our 
technical distribution model, both in 
underlying profitability and crucially in cash 
generation. The past 12 months have seen 
us continue to develop our multi-channel 
strategy with four acquisitions expanding 
our product and infrastructure resources. In 
addition, we also have confidence that the 
groundwork in identifying further targets, 
as well as building the team capable of 
successfully integrating them, will continue 
to bear fruit over 2016 and beyond. From 
the core Flowtechnology operation that 
we brought to market in 2014, we are now 
able to use each addition to our “family” 
of companies by exploiting the synergy 
gains achieved, both commercially and 
operationally, and this underpins everything 
that we do. A live example of this is our 
Data Repository project. We therefore 
enter our third year as a public company 
with expanding confidence about what 
the Group can achieve for its staff and 
Shareholders.
The Board takes this opportunity to thank 
our other colleagues around the business 
for their continuous hard work, dedication 
and loyalty, which underpins both the 
high level customer relationships and the 
Group’s overall performance.
Pictured: Operational Board 
Seated (left to right) 
Sean Fennon – CEO Flowtech Fluidpower plc  
Mark Richardson – MD, Flowtechnology Benelux 
Bryce Brooks – CFO, Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Standing (left to right) 
Mark Nelson – MD, Nelson Hydraulics 
John Farmer – MD, Flowtechnology UK  
Nick Fossey – Group Managing Director, PMC Division 
Paul McGrady – MD, Primary Fluid Power
28
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“The first full calendar 
year as a public 
company has seen 
satisfactory financial 
progress on several 
fronts including an 
11.7% increase in 
underlying operating 
performance.”
Bryce Brooks
Chief Financial Officer
Financial review
Underlying Operating Result
The underlying operating result can be summarised as follows:
Continuing operations 
Underlying operating 
result*
2015
£000
2014
£000 Change %
Flowtechnology:
 UK 7,169 6,899 270 +3.9%
 Benelux 402 497 (95) (19.1)%
7,571 7,396 175 2.4%
Power Motion Control 1,228 369 859 232.8%
Central costs (1,931) (1,619) (312) (19.3)%
Underlying operating 
result 6,868 6,146 722 11.7%
*  Underlying operating result is continuing operations’ operating profit before acquisition costs, amortisation of intangible assets, 
share-based payment costs, restructuring costs, and IPO costs. Underlying operating result is reconciled to statutory profit before 
tax in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
As well as creating a strong platform for 
the long term growth of the Group, the 
first full calendar year as a public company 
has seen satisfactory financial progress 
on several fronts including an 11.7% 
(2014:15.4%) increase in underlying 
operating performance. However, as has 
been widely reported, broad industrial 
markets have experienced challenging 
environments during the middle to latter 
part of 2015, and this has dampened the 
short term growth aspirations of the core 
Flowtechnology operations, particularly in 
the UK. It is therefore pleasing to report that 
this division has again demonstrated its 
resilient nature with reported profits showing 
overall year-on-year growth. The reduced 
contribution from the much smaller Benelux 
operation is largely down to local investment 
in an expanded technical sales resource 
which will support the business over the 
medium to long term, and in the short term 
has helped to produce year-on-year sales 
growth on constant currency of 4%. The 
cost base in this region can now support 
further significant growth in revenue, and 
in addition to organic growth, the Group 
will focus on suitable ‘bolt on’ acquisitions 
which should allow attractive synergy gains 
in due course.
Underlying operating result
(£000)
+11.7%
Net debt position
2014: £6.7m
Read more about
Our Financials  
Read more about
Financial Highlights  
50
02
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
29
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Financial review continued
As detailed in the above table, the main 
driver for growth over the year has been 
derived from the Group’s investment 
in the newly established Power Motion 
Control division. After initial setbacks from 
the slowdown in offshore and oil and gas 
market expenditure, the combined Primary, 
Nelson Hydraulics, and Albroco operations 
have made considerable progress during 
the latter part of 2015. Nelson is currently 
operating under an ‘earn-out’ arrangement 
and has produced a contribution to the 
Group of £365,000 in the second half of 
the year, which is in line with our original 
expectations. The contribution from 
Primary and the merged Albroco business 
at operating level is £863,000, of which 
£580,000 has come in the second half-
year and therefore represents a satisfactory 
refocusing of the business away from its 
previous weighting in the oil and gas sector.
Acquisition and restructuring costs
The Group uses a wide array of high 
quality professional advisers to work on our 
acquisition strategy and its implementation, 
complemented by in-house resources 
focusing on core commercial due diligence. 
In addition, during the year we have 
implemented a significant investment in 
the necessary corporate procedures to 
ensure that any business we acquire is 
able to integrate quickly and efficiently into 
the Group’s governance and accounting 
environment, thereby building an 
immediate reporting structure. The total 
cost for the year represents 3.8% of the 
total consideration paid for acquisitions 
(as detailed in note 25) and we believe this 
represents a fair cost for transactions of 
this type.
Restructuring costs incurred during 
the year relate to sensible redundancy 
arrangements incurred as part of the 
ongoing operational integration between 
the two North West England-based 
businesses, in addition to the costs related 
to the plc Board restructuring in late 2015.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year was £1.1 
million (2014: £1.2m), with an effective 
tax rate of 20.5% and a blended tax rate 
based on the geographical regimes of 
20.2%. As detailed in note 7, the Group 
incurred an adjustment to the current year 
tax charge of £76,000 which related to an 
over estimation of tax due in the prior year.
Final Dividend
Total Dividend
Read more about
Non-Executive 
Chairman’s Letter  
03
30
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Statement of financial position and 
cash flow
The net debt position at the year end was 
£9.0 million (as detailed in notes 18 and 
19) (2014: £6.7m). Cash generated from 
operating activities before tax payments 
was £7.4 million (note 27) (2014: £3.5m) 
providing ample dividend cover and ability 
to service contingent consideration, which 
clearly demonstrates the strong cash 
generative nature of the core business.
During the year the principal use of cash 
has been in the investment in the Albroco 
and Nelson operations. Both have been 
funded by a mixture of day one cash, 
followed by deferred consideration 
contingent on the performance of both 
businesses over the two years immediately 
following their purchase. These two deals 
are both examples of where the Group will 
seek to ensure that our cash resources 
are used in a focused manner with regard 
to acquisition activities, and will always 
look to ensure that wherever possible, 
the transference of risk from vendors has 
a suitable profile built over an extended 
period of time.
In addition, during the latter part of 2015, 
the Group has used its financial strength 
to take advantage of the current soft 
conditions in the Chinese manufacturing 
environment to procure advantageous 
pricing on some fast moving lines. 
Where sensible these will be used to 
both promote offensive market initiatives 
during 2016, as well as to provide some 
defence should the current challenging 
environments in the UK distribution sector 
persist. In general, the stock profile created 
across the Group leaves all our trading 
divisions well placed for further organic 
expansion through to 2017 and beyond.
Core working capital requirements again 
remain at a satisfactory level with key trade 
debt risks well embraced by the use of our 
Central Services function. The total charge 
for bad and doubtful debt related issues of 
£62,000, representing 0.14% of turnover 
(2014: £84,000).
Cash resources for further organic 
and acquisitive growth have also been 
bolstered by the extension of core facilities 
with Barclays Bank plc. As detailed in 
note 19, as well as our long term loan 
facility, the Group now enjoys an enhanced 
revolving credit facility of £8 million, with 
agreement for a further ‘accordion’ facility 
of £7 million should such resources be 
required. All are subject to achievable 
covenant requirements. This again leaves 
the business very well placed for the 
immediate future, and indicates the level 
of commitment provided to the Group by 
Barclays.
Exchange rates and hedging 
activities
The majority of the Group’s activities take 
place in sterling, but with an increasing 
exposure to the euro for purchasing from 
Eurozone countries, as well as some US 
dollar supplies from China and Taiwan. For 
these trading activities the Group is able 
to take a flexible approach to currency risk 
management, as it is not involved in fixed 
price sales contracts. Sales pricing can 
therefore be flexed as cost prices change 
and the Group has operated in this manner 
successfully for a number of years.
In addition, the Group derives income 
streams from its Benelux and Irish Republic 
operations. In order to fix the value of these 
profits, the Group will hedge on an annual 
basis each January for the estimated 
euro value of the contribution of these 
operations. In 2015 this hedging process 
resulted in a gain of £18,000 (2014: 
£31,000) and is accounted for within net 
financing costs.
Dividend
Subject to Shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting which is to be 
held on 1 June 2016, the Directors are 
proposing a final dividend of 3.50p per 
share. This, together with the interim 
dividend of 1.75p (paid on 23 October 
2015), brings the total for the year to 5.25p 
which again matches the commitment 
made at the date of the IPO. The outlook 
for further enhancement to dividend flow 
remains good and the Board would like 
to reiterate its view that the retention of a 
strong dividend policy is a foundation for 
the investment case in the Group.
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
31
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Risk management
How the business 
manages risk
Number Risk Mitigation
Talent management and succession planning
1
There is a risk that the business is not able to 
attract and retain high performing employees.
The Group also needs to maintain engagement 
with the employees to ensure they remain 
supportive of the business strategy.
Attraction and retention of employees is supported by bonus 
plans, recognition and reward programmes and innovative benefit 
packages.
Succession planning process introduced by the Operational 
Board in 2015 to identify and develop key employees. Nick 
Fossey appointed to lead the PMC division in March 2016.
Training forms a key part of all employees’ development within 
their roles. Training is arranged to support the Group’s business 
plans and the personal goals of all employees.
System and site disruption
2
There is heavy operational dependence on the 
resilience of warehousing and IT infrastructure 
to support business operations and maintain 
high service levels. The risk is present 
that unplanned events could disrupt the 
functioning of key elements of the operational 
infrastructure, damaging customer service and 
business reputation.
Off-site disaster recovery provision for IT systems including call 
centre relocation.
Back-up generator installed at the main site with other sites to 
have feasibility studies in 2016.
Business continuity plans in place at operational locations. As 
the Group increases in size, resilience to disruption increases as 
distribution and production activities can be re-routed to other 
sites.
Inability to recognise and control cyber exposures 
3
The Group recognises there is an increasing 
exposure to cyber risk, including advanced 
techniques to disrupt our websites and direct 
attacks on Group systems with the potential 
loss of confidential information.
Current mitigation measures for local business systems include 
anti-virus software, virus scans on incoming emails and firewall 
protection.
The main Group website is hosted in the cloud with dual servers 
ensuring automatic switchover should one fail with daily back-up 
procedures.
In common with all organisations, Flowtech faces risks which may affect its performance. There is little that we can do about the 
macroeconomic environment but the Board believes that our strategy, which is designed to exploit opportunities created by the market, 
places Flowtech in a strong position relative to others, particularly where those markets are volatile. For the risks we are able to manage 
the Group operates a system of internal control and risk management in order to provide assurance that we are managing risk whilst 
achieving our business objectives. No system can fully eliminate risk and therefore the understanding of operational risk is central to 
management processes. The long term success of the Group depends on the continual review, assessment and control of the key 
business risks it faces. Risk review is an ongoing process and is reviewed formally by the Operational Board prior to the year end.
The principal risks identified include:
32
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Number Risk Mitigation
Quality control
4
Many of the key components and products 
supplied by the Group are for industrial 
use, often in hazardous environments. 
These components and products must be 
fit for purpose to ensure that their reliability, 
performance and safety is of the necessary 
standard. Failure in this quality will cause 
damage to the Group’s reputation, customer 
relationships and potential legal consequences.
The majority of the Group’s products are sourced from reputable 
‘brands’ in the UK and Europe. In addition, for Exclusive Brands 
sourced from China, the Group has quality control specialists who 
regularly visit suppliers’ manufacturing sites to ensure that high 
quality standard operating procedures are being adhered to.
The Group complies with ISO9001 ensuring quality standards are 
maintained through all its operations.
Continual testing procedures are in place for both components 
and manufactured products.
Employees involved in assembly processes are qualified with the 
relevant industry body awards and continue with regular internal 
and external training.
Breach of regulations
5
Inadvertent breaches of regulations could lead 
to prosecution and significant fines. Regulations 
impacting the Group include COSHH, 
packaging waste regulations, health and safety 
at work, the Bribery and Corruption Act and 
corporate governance.
The Group engages external specialists as required to make 
sure internal procedures and policies are in place to provide 
compliance with the regulatory frameworks.
There is an ongoing review of relevant national and international 
compliance requirements. 
Failure to integrate acquisitions and align 
strategies to existing business model.
6
The Directors believe that the fluid power 
marketplace is highly fragmented, and the 
Group’s core trading entities operate in well-
defined channels. Acquisition opportunities that 
fit within these channels will be key targets. 
However, this fragmented nature will often 
introduce channel overlap that could undermine 
trading performance in other parts of the 
Group.
The Board includes both Executive and Non-Executive Directors with 
considerable acquisition experience. Given that the development 
of the Group in the fluid power market is likely to include multiple 
opportunities to acquire trading companies in both the UK and 
Europe, future appointments will also be made as required to 
strengthen skills and knowledge in this area. Since the IPO, the Group 
has also added professionals in both general accounting and mergers 
and acquisitions to its internal resources in support of this process.
Prior to engaging in any process the Chief Financial Officer will 
review any acquisition opportunity for conformance with the Board’ s 
strategy on channel management. Further detailed assessment 
with regard to channel conflict will be a key part of the due diligence 
process which will include consultation with the Group’ s Operational 
Board prior to plc Board approval and any commitment to buy.
Risk heat map
The risk heat map represents the qualitative and quantitative 
evaluations of the likelihood of a risk occurring and the impact 
on the Group in the event that a particular risk is experienced. 
The risk heat map was compiled by the Operational Board 
based on a common understanding of the risk appetite of the 
Group, the level of impact that would be material to the Group 
and the same method for assigning probabilities and potential 
impacts. Results from the individual Board members were 
amalgamated using simple averaging.
Movements from the prior year’s ranking are indicated by the 
arrows.
Impact
Likelihood
1
3
3
6
6
4
4
5
5 2
2
1
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
33
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Our 
people
Customers
SUSTAINABILITY
Environment Suppliers Community Investors
❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱
❱
❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱
❱
❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱ ❱
❱
❱ ❱ ❱
❱❱❱
Strategic Report
Sustainability
Sustainability seeks to develop and implement the methods and behaviours that balance the consumption of resources with the impact 
of that consumption on the environment in an economically viable manner that also enhances the quality of life. The Group believes 
this is a matter of common sense that has been embedded into the values of all our component divisions for many years. As an 
amalgamation of family businesses we have been practicing the sensible values of sustainability for many years.
The Group recognises that we are part of a much wider community and our key focuses in our sustainability activities are our people, 
customers, suppliers and investors, the environment and our local communities.
We ensure we’re a 
sustainable business by 
giving the neccessary 
focus to the following 
stakeholder groups:
34
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Our people
Our employees are our greatest asset and 
are trained to meet our requirements of 
efficiency and service to customers and 
suppliers. The Group recognises that its 
performance and ongoing success are 
directly related to the quality and effective 
performance of employees. It is the policy 
of the Group to ensure that employees 
are able to improve their performance by 
having appropriate access to effective 
training, development, coaching and 
counselling facilities. Induction training 
sets the foundation for all employees 
and introduces the Group’s operational 
best and required practices which are 
documented in comprehensive Standard 
Practice Instructions. This is followed by 
specific on-the-job training.
The Company is an Equal Opportunity 
Employer. This means that the Company’s 
established policy is to ensure that no 
unlawful discrimination occurs, either 
directly or indirectly, against any person 
on the grounds of colour, sex, sexual 
orientation, marital status, race, religion, 
nationality, ethnic or national origin or 
age. The Company’s policy covers direct 
and indirect discrimination and failure to 
make reasonable adjustments for disabled 
employees, victimisation and harassment.
‘Investors In People’ — Flowtechnology 
UK achieved accreditation in 2002 and 
has successfully passed subsequent 
re-assessments of the Investors in People 
Standard. This award confirms we have 
developed successful strategies and 
have taken effective action to improve the 
performance of the organisation through our 
employees.
Customers
The Group values each customer 
regardless of size and is committed to 
develop mutually beneficial relationships 
at local, national and international level. 
All divisions have a customer-centric 
approach and it is vitally important for 
to us to work closely with the customer 
base to understand the underlying drivers 
in their marketplace. Continued dialogue 
has enabled the Group to develop its 
product offer and so match these changing 
requirements. During the year the IADA 
Group ‘Supplier of the Year Award 2015’ 
was won by Flowtechnology UK.
“Flowtechnology UK not only deserved to be 
voted Supplier of the Year, but our decision was 
unanimous and is the first time a supplier from the 
Fluid Power Industry has won our esteemed award.” 
Mike Casson, Chairman of IADA
STRATEGIC REPORT
35
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Sustainability continued
The environment
The Group is mindful of the impact that its 
operations have on the environment and is 
committed to reduce its carbon footprint. 
Amongst the measures in place are:
•	 We recycle as much ‘waste’ as possible 
in the form of plastic, paper, metals and 
cardboard
•	 The Group fleet utilises the BMW 
Efficient Dynamics range whenever 
possible and encourages employees 
to share the benefits through a salary 
sacrifice scheme for personal use
•	 Reducing energy use through low 
energy lighting and utilising motion 
sensitive lighting in our warehouses
•	 Encouraging cycle use through local 
government initiatives in both the UK 
and the Netherlands
•	 Wherever possible orders and invoices 
to suppliers and customers are sent via 
Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) with a 
consequent reduction in the use of paper
•	 Financial reports are issued to the 
majority of Shareholders as an 
interactive report on our website
Suppliers
The Group nurtures its relationships with 
its OEM suppliers whilst developing its 
complementary Exclusive Brands. We 
have a dedicated team in Shanghai to 
manage relationships with our Far Eastern 
suppliers, ensuring we can overcome 
local cultural and language barriers. Our 
commitment to supplier relationships has 
resulted in the Group signing a master 
trading agreement with the Hydraulics 
Group of the Eaton Corporation.
“We see considerable 
potential to drive further 
adoption of Eaton 
products in the UK, 
working closely with 
Flowtech Group. Through 
our association with 
Flowtech, we can better 
serve our customers 
with Eaton products 
and solutions. This 
agreement enables us to 
offer the Eaton Winner 
matched hose and 
assembly system to the 
UK for the first time.” 
Mark Ward, Eaton Sales Manager,  
UK and Ireland.
36
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Community
•	 The Group receives numerous requests 
from charities and organisations seeking 
our help. Our charity contribution activity 
is financed through a discretionary 
budget approved annually by the 
Flowtech Fluidpower plc Board and as 
such, the fund is distributed between 
the chosen charities for the year and is 
enhanced through the support we also 
provide via the voluntary input of our 
colleagues and other types of donations
•	 Employees are encouraged to participate 
in regular fundraising events for national 
charities such as dress-down days
•	 Local football sponsorship is encouraged 
to support junior teams in the community 
and PFP management is actively involved 
with playing and coaching for their local 
team, Quarry Green FC
Investors
The Board presents to our investors twice 
a year and are always available for meeting 
with existing and new investors. Our first 
Annual General Meeting was held on  
21 May 2015, the anniversary of the IPO, 
which included a tour of the Skelmersdale 
site and a presentation of the Group’s 
strategy. The Board will be repeating this 
format at our next AGM on 1 June 2016 
and all investors are welcome to attend.
Human rights
Our respect for human rights is implicit 
in our employment practices; the rights 
of every employee are respected and 
every employee is treated with dignity and 
consideration. Our employment practices 
are designed to attract, retain, motivate 
and train people and to respect their rights. 
We do not use child labour, nor do we use 
forced labour. We make regular supplier 
visits to ensure our supply chain maintains 
the same standards of integrity and is free 
from modern slavery. We recognise freedom 
of association by permitting our employees 
to establish and join organisations of their 
own choosing without our permission, and 
we recognise collective bargaining where 
required by local laws.
The Strategic Report as set out on pages 
12 to 37 has been approved by the Board.
Yours sincerely
Sean Fennon 
Chief Executive 
Officer 
12 April 2015
Bryce Brooks 
Chief Financial 
Officer 
“The management and 
players of Quarry Green 
FC would like to thank 
Primary Fluid Power for 
all their much needed and 
valued support; without 
support from companies 
like Primary Fluid Power 
grass roots football would 
find it very hard to exist.”
The management and players of Quarry 
Park FC
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
37
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Governance
Officers and professional advisers
Nigel Richens
Non-Executive Director
Appointed: May 2014 
Career: 23 years within the accountancy 
sector at partner level with PwC. 
Experienced adviser to listed and 
private equity-owned businesses across 
manufacturing, distribution, construction 
and engineering sectors.
Board committees: Chair of Audit, 
Remuneration and AIM Compliance and 
Corporate Governance Committees.
Malcolm Diamond MBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed: May 2014
Career: 35 year career in industry. Strong 
commercial and marketing experience 
as well as City investor knowledge and 
expertise. Experienced Non-Executive 
having worked across industrial, 
pharmaceutical and investment sectors.
Current role: Executive Chairman, Trifast 
plc, Non-Executive Director, Acal Plc. 
Board committees: Chair of Nomination 
Committee and also a member of both 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
and the AIM Compliance and Corporate 
Governance Committee.
Sean Fennon
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed: November 2009 
Career: 30 years in industry – in design, 
manufacturing, wholesale, retail and 
industrial distribution. 
Previous role: Managing Director of a 
large UK industrial distributor, a subsidiary 
of a large German group.
Board committees: By invitation.
38
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Registered office
Pimbo Road  
Skelmersdale  
Lancashire WN8 9RB
Company Secretary
Bryce Brooks
Contact
info@flowtechfluidpower.com 
www.flowtechfluidpower.com 
Tel: +44 (0) 1695 52796
Nominated adviser and broker
Zeus Capital Limited 
41 Conduit Street  
London W1S 2YQ 
and 
82 King Street  
Manchester M2 4WQ
Auditor 
Grant Thornton UK LLP 
4 Hardman Square 
Spinningfields 
Manchester M3 3EB
Solicitors 
DLA Piper UK LLP 
101 Barbirolli Square 
Bridgewater 
Manchester M2 3DL
Company Registrars
Capita Registrars Limited 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC 
1 Churchill Place  
London E14 5HP
Investor Relations
TooleyStreet Communications Ltd 
Regent Court 
Birmingham  
West Midlands B3 1UG
Bryce Brooks
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed: March 2010 
Career: Qualified with PwC in 1989.
Previous role: Finance Director 
in two UK subsidiaries of Marlowe 
Holdings, an American-owned 
industrial products distribution group 
headed by Edmundson Electrical, 
as well as a group corporate 
development role.
Board committees: AIM Compliance 
and Corporate Governance 
Committee and by invitation.
39
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
OUR GOVERNANCE 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Governance
Directors’ Report (other disclosures)
The Directors present their Annual Report, together with the 
audited Group and Company financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. The Group financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with International Reporting 
Standards as approved by the European Union (IFRS). 
The Company financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced 
disclosure framework’ (FRS 101).
A review of the Group’s trading and an indication of future 
developments are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 
12 to 37. Details of revenue and operating profits for each 
operating segment are contained in note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements. The principal subsidiaries contributing to the 
profits and net assets of the Group are listed in note 12 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Flowtech Fluidpower plc is incorporated in England (company 
registration number 09010518) and has its registered office at 
Pimbo Road, Skelmersdale, Lancashire WN8 9RB.
Results and dividends
The results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out 
in the consolidated income statement on page 50. The Group 
has reported an operating profit from its continuing activities of 
£5.491 million (2014: £3.325m). After accounting for net finance 
costs, the consolidated income statement shows a profit from 
continuing operations before taxation of £5.280 million (2014: 
profit of £30.411m which included a non-recurring item: the gain 
on settlement of debt of £29.043m created by a debt for equity 
swap with the previous private equity owners).
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 3.50p per 
ordinary share amounting to £1.508 million payable on 24 June 
2016 to Shareholders on the Company’s register at the close of 
business on 3 June 2016. The shares will be quoted ex-dividend 
from 2 June 2016.
Directors
The Directors who held office during the year and up to the date 
of approval of the financial statements are as follows:
•	 Malcolm Diamond MBE 
•	 Nigel Richens
•	 Sean Fennon 
•	 Bryce Brooks 
•	 Paul Watson (resigned 22 October 2015)
Short biographies of each Director are provided on pages 38  
and 39.
Those Directors serving at the end of the year, or at date of 
this report, had an interest in the ordinary share capital of the 
Company, and its subsidiaries, at 31 December 2015 which is 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 46.
Details of the Directors’ share options are provided in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 47.
Material interest in contracts
No Director, either during or at the end of the financial year, was 
materially interested in any significant contract with the Company 
or any subsidiary undertaking.
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are in note 26 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s share capital comprises one class of ordinary 
shares and as at 12 April 2016 there were in issue 43,078,279 
fully paid ordinary shares of 50p each. All shares are fully 
transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
The Company has been notified of the following interest in more 
than 3% of the Company’s issued share capital at 31 March 
2016 (being the last practicable date before the publication of 
this report):
Number of 
shares %
Miton Group plc 6,527,606 15.15
Hargreave Hale 5,516,400 12.81
Premier Asset Managers 5,500,650 12.77
Close Brothers Asset 
Management 3,946,524 9.16
Stephen Merrie 2,100,000 4.87
Henderson Global Investors 1,950,000 4.53
City Financial Investment 
Company 1,939,896 4.50
Ruffer LLP 1,896,600 4.40
Ennismore Fund Management 1,881,481 4.37
Lazard Freres Gestion 1,370,000 3.18
Legal & General Investment 
Management 1,294,808 3.01
40
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Financial instruments and risk management
Information about the use of financial instruments by the 
Company and its subsidiaries, and the Group’s financial risk 
management policies are given in note 32. It is not the Group’s 
policy to trade in financial instruments.
Social responsibility
The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, 
environmental and ethical matters. The following specific matters 
fall under the broad definition of ‘social responsibility’:
Employees
Details of the number of employees and related costs can 
be found in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The Group is committed to providing staff and management 
with training designed to develop attitudes and skills and give 
opportunities for advancement. The Group promotes good 
communication and consultation with regular management 
meetings, staff briefings, and a staff consultative committee to 
involve staff in the progress of the Group and its future. 
The Group operates various performance bonus schemes 
related to KPI achievements within the operational functions. 
The Group believes that these schemes demonstrate the Group’s 
commitment to involving employees in performance.
It is the policy of the Group that no employee, or potential 
employee, is discriminated against on the grounds of disability, 
age, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or political belief 
and offer the same employment opportunities, training, career 
development and promotion prospects to all. 
Employee share scheme incentives
Flowtech Fluidpower plc operates two share-based Enterprise 
Management Incentive option schemes for the benefit of its staff 
and senior management. The aim of the share-based EMI option 
schemes is to align the interests of employees with those of the 
Company’s Shareholders. Employees may exercise their options 
at any time between May 2017 and May 2024. 
At 31 December 2015 the total shares in the Company held by 
the Enterprise Management Incentive Plans were 2,499,721, 
representing 5.8% of the issued capital. Further details are 
provided in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Flowtech Fluidpower plc operates a share-based Company 
Share Option Plan scheme for the benefit of its staff and senior 
management. The aim of the share-based CSOP scheme is to 
align the interests of employees with those of the Company’s 
Shareholders. Employees may exercise their options at any time 
between May 2018 and May 2025. 
At 31 December 2015 the total shares in the Company held by 
the Company Share Option Plan was 130,000, representing 
0.3% of the issued capital. Further details are provided in note 24 
to the consolidated financial statements.
Health, safety and environmental management
The Group recognises the importance of its environmental 
responsibilities and operates in accordance with policies agreed 
through a health and safety committee and a staff consultative 
committee. Initiatives designed to minimise the Group’s impact 
on the environment include recycling of waste where practical, 
use of low emission vehicles and low energy lighting.
The health and safety of the Group’s employees, customers and 
members of the general public is a matter of primary concern. 
Accordingly, it is the Group’s policy to manage its activities so as 
to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risk to the 
health of its employees and members of the public. The policy 
is based on the requirements of national employment legislation 
in the countries where the Group operates, including the Safety, 
Health and Welfare at Work Act 1989.
Operations are conducted such that they comply with all the 
legal requirements relating to the environments in which they 
operate. During the periods covered by this report no Group 
company has incurred any fines or penalties or been investigated 
for any breach of environmental regulations.
41
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
OUR GOVERNANCE 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Governance
Directors’ Report (other disclosures) continued
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Company’s head 
office at Pimbo Road, Skelmersdale, Lancashire WN8 9RB on  
1 June 2015 at noon. 
Going concern
UK company law requires the Directors to consider whether it 
is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the basis 
the Company and the Group are going concerns. Throughout 
the financial statements there are various disclosures relating 
to going concern. This Directors’ Report summarises the key 
themes and references those areas where greater disclosure is 
given. 
The Group meets it day-to-day working capital requirements 
through its bank facilities. The year end amounts outstanding 
on each are discussed within note 19. The Directors have 
carefully considered the banking facilities and their future 
covenant compliance in light of the current and future cash flow 
forecasts and they believe that the Company and the Group are 
appropriately positioned to ensure the conditions of its funding 
will continue to be met and therefore enable the Company and 
the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future by meeting its liabilities as they fall due for payment.
Sensitised forecasts have been prepared for two years and have 
been reviewed by the Directors to ensure that the profit and cash 
generation derived from these forecasts are sufficient to ensure 
that the existing bank facilities are sufficient to meet the Group’s 
requirements. This is discussed further within liquidity risk in note 
32.3 and is the key factor in relation to going concern.
As a result of this review, the Directors are of the opinion that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and have 
continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Disclosure of information to Auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
Auditor is unaware; and that each Director has taken all the 
steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s Auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP was reappointed as Auditor of the 
Company during the year and a resolution to appoint them will 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Bryce Brooks 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
12 April 2016
42
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, 
Directors’ Report and the consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union (IFRS). The Company financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdon Accounting 
Standards and applicable laws, including FRS101 ‘Reduced 
disclosure framework’). Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and profit or loss 
of the Company and the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are  
required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•	 for the consolidated financial statements state whether IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements respectively;
•	 for the parent Company financial statements state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements respectively;
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and 
Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors confirm that: 
•	 so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and
•	 the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
Auditor is aware of that information.
43
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
OUR GOVERNANCE 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Governance
Corporate Governance Report
The Board is accountable to the Company’s Shareholders for 
good governance. The following statement describes the key 
corporate governance policies that have been adopted by the 
Company. The Company is not required to follow, and does not 
claim compliance with, the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Nevertheless, the Board is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance which it considers are critical to business 
integrity and to maintaining investors’ trust.
The Board 
At the date of signing these accounts, the Board has two 
Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors including 
the Chairman.
Biographical information for each of the Directors are set out 
on pages 38 to 39. The Board confirms that, having taken 
into consideration the results of the performance evaluation 
undertaken in the year, the Director being proposed for re-
election has demonstrated commitment to his responsibilities 
and continues to perform effectively.
Role of the Board
During the year the Board has met on eight occasions and 
undertaken several telephone discussions to cover specific 
matters such as acquisitions. At the Board meeting, the CEO 
reports on the overall business performance and any matters 
which need to be brought to the attention of the Board. The CFO 
reports on the financial performance and any other secretarial 
matters. Minutes of the previous Board meeting are approved.
There are four Board committees; the Audit, Remuneration, 
Nomination and the AIM Compliance and Corporate Governance 
Committees.
Collectively and individually, the Directors monitor the 
performance of the Board and its members on a range of 
measures. Due to its small size and the cost of the process, a 
formal evaluation of Board performance by an outside agency 
is not thought to be appropriate. All Directors have access to 
independent advice at Company expense if it is felt it is required.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee reviews the size, structure and 
composition of the Board and ensures adequate succession 
planning for both the Board and senior management team.  
The Committee meets as required. No meetings were required  
in the year.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year 
to determine and agree remuneration packages and other 
employee benefits. Details of Directors’ remuneration are set out 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 47.
The AIM Compliance and  
Corporate Governance Committee
The AIM Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee 
meets twice a year. It is responsible for establishing, reviewing 
and monitoring the Group’s procedures and controls for ensuring 
compliance with the AIM Rules and the timely disclosure of 
information to satisfy the Group’s legal and regulatory obligations.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the 
Group’s Auditor and as otherwise required. Its duties are to:
•	 Monitor the integrity of the financial statements;
•	 Review the quality of the Group’s internal controls, ethical 
standards and risk management systems;
•	 Review the Group’s procedures for detecting and preventing 
bribery and fraud; 
•	 Ensure that the financial performance of the Group is properly 
reported on and monitored, including reviews of the annual 
and interim accounts, results announcements and accounting 
policies; and
•	 Oversee the relationship with the Group’s external Auditor.
During the year the Audit Committee discharged its 
responsibilities by:
•	 reviewing the Group’s draft financial statements, preliminary 
announcements and interim results statement prior to Board 
approval and reviewing the external Auditor’s reports thereon;
•	 reviewing the external Auditor’s plan for the audit of the Group 
financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence 
and proposed audit fee and approving terms of engagement 
for the audit;
•	 considering the effectiveness and independence of the 
external Auditor and recommending to the Board the re-
appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as external Auditor;
•	 considering the review of material business risks;
•	 reviewing Group Directors’ expenses;
•	 monitoring of reporting and follow up of items reported by 
employees;
•	 considering the significant risks and issues in relation to the 
financial statements and how these were addressed including:
 — impairment reviews of goodwill
 — accounting policies and disclosures in relation to segmental 
analyses 
 — provisions
 — fraud risk
 — going concern, covenants and cash headroom;
44
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
•	 considering the adequacy of accounting resource and the 
development of appropriate systems and controls;
•	 reviewing the risk register with specific focus on cyber 
exposure;
•	 reviewing progress on the plans to integrate acquisitions, 
enhance business continuity and disaster recovery 
procedures; and
•	 considering policies on non-audit engagements for the 
Company’s Auditor.
Internal controls
The Directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control. However, such a system is designed to manage, rather 
than eliminate the risk of failures to achieve business objectives 
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against misstatement or loss. The key elements within the 
Group’s system of internal control are as follows:
•	 regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved for 
Directors’ consideration;
•	 regular management reporting;
•	 an annual Board review of corporate strategy, including a 
review of material risks and uncertainties facing the business;
•	 established organisational structure with clearly defined lines 
of responsibility and levels of authority;
•	 documented policies and procedures;
•	 regular review by the Board of financial budgets, forecasts and 
covenants with performance reported to the Board monthly;
•	 detailed investment process for major projects, including 
capital investment coupled with post investment appraisal 
analysis.
The Audit Committee considered the need to establish a formal 
internal audit function. It was decided that it was not appropriate 
at present due the centralised control structure and daily 
monitoring of results, stock levels and cash balances. This matter 
will be revisited as the Group expands. There are adequate 
resources to conduct ad hoc investigations should the Audit 
Committee so require.
Communication with shareholders
Presentations by the Executive Directors of interim and full year 
results are offered to all major Shareholders. Other Shareholders 
are welcome to make contact with the Company and wherever 
possible their concerns or questions are responded to by a 
Director in person. 
The Group’s website www.flowtechfluidpower.com is the 
primary source of information for the Group and includes an 
overview of the activities of the Group and details of all recent 
announcements.
45
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
OUR GOVERNANCE 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The role of the Remuneration 
Committee will be to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
responsibilities in respect of establishing appropriate 
remuneration levels and incentive policies for employees, 
Executives and Directors, including all share-based 
compensation. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
is approved by the Board of Directors. As Chairman of the 
Committee, I have been asked by the Board to report to you on 
all remuneration matters on its behalf.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy of the Group is:
•	 to provide a suitable remuneration package to attract, 
motivate and retain Executive Directors who will run the Group 
successfully; and
•	 to ensure that all long term incentive schemes for the 
Directors are in line with the Shareholders’ interests.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board. 
No Director plays a part in any discussion about their own 
remuneration. The Remuneration Committee members are 
expected to draw on their experience to judge where to position 
the Group, relative to other companies’ and other groups’ rates 
of pay when considering remuneration packages for executives. 
Benefits in kind are the provision of medical insurance premiums. 
The pension contributions represent the Group’s contribution to 
defined contribution schemes.
All of the Executive Directors have service contracts which 
provide for notice periods of 12 months. All of the Non-Executive 
Directors have service contracts which provide for notice periods 
of three months. 
All of the Executive Directors participate in the EMI option 
schemes and one of the Executive Directors participates in 
an unapproved EMI option scheme. These options will be 
exercisable on the publication of the Company’s financial 
results for the year ended December 2016 and will lapse if the 
Directors leave employment for any other reason than being a 
‘good leaver’ as defined within the scheme rules, or at the end 
of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Further details are 
provided in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors’ detailed emoluments
Salary and 
fees
£000
Benefits
£000
Compensation 
for loss of 
office
£000
Pension
£000
Share-based 
payments
£000
Total
2015
£000
Total
2014
£000
Executives
Sean Fennon 220 1 — — 85 306 228
Bryce Brooks 136 4 — 14 45 199 157
Paul Watson (resigned 
22 October 2015) 120 1 154 — 45 320 167
Non-Executives
Malcolm Diamond MBE 75 — — — — 75 38
Nigel Richens 40 — — — — 40 25
591 6 154 14 175 940 609
46
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Directors’ share interests
The table below shows the interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year in the share capital of the Company:
As at 
31 December 
2015
No. of ordinary 
shares
As at 
31 December
 2014
No. of ordinary 
shares
Executives
Sean Fennon 209,000 189,000
Bryce Brooks 91,000 81,000
Non-Executives
Malcolm Diamond MBE 35,000 25,000
Nigel Richens 35,000 25,000
All changes in the year relate to purchases on 23 November 2015 for an average price of 107.8 pence per share. 
The table below shows the interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year in the share capital of the Company’s subsidiary 
Flowtech MIP Limited: 
Executives
As at 31 December 
2015
As at 31 December
 2014
A shares £1 
ordinary
B shares £1 
ordinary
A shares £1 
ordinary
B shares £1 
ordinary
Sean Fennon 340 3,100 340 3,100
Bryce Brooks 180 3,100 180 3,100
Paul Watson (resigned 22 October 2015) — — 180 3,100
All shares were issued on admission to AIM at a cost of £10 per share on 21 May 2014. The shares were issued as part of an 
employee share-based remuneration scheme called the ‘Management Incentive Plan’. For further details refer to note 24. Paul 
Watson’s shares were purchased at a nominal value of £32.80 on his resignation on 22 October 2015.
Directors’ share options
Details of share options held by the Directors over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below:
Executives Scheme
As at 
31 December 
2014 Exercised Cancelled
As at 
31 December 
2015
Sean Fennon EMI (Approved) 249,999 — — 249,999
Sean Fennon EMI (Unapproved) 222,223 — — 222,223
Bryce Brooks EMI (Approved) 249,999 — — 249,999
Paul Watson (resigned 22 October 2015) EMI (Approved) 249,999 (249,999) — —
All options were granted on admission to AIM on 21 May 2014. The shares were issued as part of an employee share-based 
remuneration scheme called the “Enterprise Management Incentive Plan”. Further details are provided in note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
On behalf of the Board
Nigel Richens  
12 April 2016
47
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
OUR GOVERNANCE 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Independent Auditor’s Report
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Flowtech Fluidpower plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which 
comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of 
financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the parent Company 
statement of financial position, the parent Company statement of changes in equity and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.
uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
•	 the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
48
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Stuart Muskett 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP 
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants 
MANCHESTER 
12 April 2016
49
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Consolidated Income Statement
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 44,848 37,791
Cost of sales (29,503) (24,615)
Gross profit 15,345 13,176
Distribution expenses (2,245) (2,034)
Administrative expenses before separately disclosed items: (6,232) (4,996)
— Acquisition costs 4 (299) (206)
— Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4 (413) (130)
— Share-based payment costs 4 (342) (148)
— Restructuring costs 4 (323) (45)
— IPO costs 4 — (2,292)
Total administrative expenses (7,609) (7,817)
Operating profit 3,4 5,491 3,325
Financial income 6 22 33
Financial expenses 6 (233) (1,990)
Gain on settlement of debt — 29,043
Net financing (costs)/income (211) 27,086
Profit from continuing operations before tax 5,280 30,411
Taxation 7 (1,057) (1,184)
Profit from continuing operations 4,223 29,227
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 28 (131) (496)
Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 4,092 28,731
Earnings per share 9
Basic earnings per share
 Continuing operations 9.85p 114.42p
 Discontinued operations (0.31p) (1.94p)
Basic earnings per share 9.54p 112.48p
Diluted earnings per share
 Continuing operations 9.73p 112.86p
 Discontinued operations (0.30p) (1.92p)
Diluted earnings per share 9.43p 110.94p
50
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
2015
£000
2014
£000
Profit for the year 4,092 28,731
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
– items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 85 (141)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 4,177 28,590
51
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 46,412 44,583
Other intangible assets 11 4,179 2,995
Property, plant and equipment 13 3,265 2,887
Total non-current assets 53,856 50,465
Current assets
Inventories 15 13,254 11,163
Trade and other receivables 16 10,367 9,529
Prepayments 316 270
Other financial assets 17 32 24
Cash and cash equivalents 18 1,841 1,979
Total current assets 25,810 22,965
Liabilities 
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 5,986 2,973
Trade and other payables 20 6,625 5,415
Deferred and contingent consideration 21 1,250 1,603
Tax payable 758 881
Provisions 22 86 71
Other financial liabilities 23 15 27
Total current liabilities 14,720 10,970
Net current assets 11,090 11,995
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 4,874 5,716
Deferred and contingent consideration 21 898 —
Provisions 22 130 162
Deferred tax liabilities 14 901 676
Total non-current liabilities 6,803 6,554
Net assets 58,143 55,906
Equity directly attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 26 21,539 21,414
Share premium 46,880 46,664
Share-based payment reserve 380 148
Shares owned by the Employee Benefit Trust (338) –
Merger reserve 293 293
Merger relief reserve 2,086 2,086
Currency translation reserve (93) (178)
Retained losses (12,604) (14,521)
Total equity 58,143 55,906
The financial statements on pages 50 to 91 were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 April 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Bryce Brooks 
Chief Financial Officer
Company number: 09010518
52
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Share- 
based 
payment 
reserve 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Shares
owned
by the 
EBT
£000
Merger 
relief 
reserve
£000
Currency 
translation
reserve
£000
Retained
losses
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 1 January 2014 50 — — 293 — — (37) (13,494) (13,188)
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 28,731 28,731
Other comprehensive loss — — — — — — (141) — (141)
Total comprehensive (expense)/ 
income for the year — — — — — — (141) 28,731 28,590
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 21,364 19,950 — — — — — — 41,314
Share issue expenses — (2,329) — — — — — — (2,329)
Merger relief arising on acquisition of 
subsidiary — — — — — 2,086 — — 2,086
Gain on settlement of debt capitalised 
as share premium on issue of ordinary 
shares — 29,043 — — — — — (29,043) —
Share-based payment charge — — 148 — — — — 148
Equity dividends paid (note 8) — — — — — — — (715) (715)
Total transactions with owners 21,364 46,664 148 — — 2,086 — (29,758) 40,504
Balance at 1 January 2015 21,414 46,664 148 293 — 2,086 (178) (14,521) 55,906
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 4,092 4,092
Other comprehensive income — — — — — — 85 — 85
Total comprehensive income  
for the year — — — — — — 85 4,092 4,177
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 125 216 — — — — — — 341
Shares owned by the EBT — — — — (338) — — — (338)
Share-based payment charge — — 342 — — — — — 342
Share options settled — — (110) — — — — — (110)
Equity dividends paid (note 8) — — — — — — — (2,175) (2,175)
Total transactions with owners 125 216 232 — (338) — — (2,175) (1,940)
Balance at 31 December 2015 21,539 46,880 380 293 (338) 2,086 (93) (12,604) 58,143
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
53
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Cash flow from operating activities
Net cash from operating activities 27 5,943 2,275
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 25.1,25.2 (3,063) (2,683)
Disposal of subsidiary, net of overdraft disposed of — 103
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 13 (750) (496)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 —
Payment of deferred consideration (1,603) —
Net cash used in investing activities (5,409) (3,076)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from the issue of share capital — 37,571
Proceeds from new loan 6,523 7,000
Repayment of long term borrowings (2,357) (37,532)
Net change in short term borrowings (2,096) (5,409)
Repayment of finance lease liabilities (32) (16)
Interest received 14 3
Interest paid (244) (341)
Purchase of own shares (338) —
Cash settled share options (105) —
Dividends paid 8 (2,175) (715)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (810) 561
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (276) (240)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 1,979 2,265
Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents 22 (46)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18,19 1,725 1,979
Cash and cash equivalents 18 1,841 1,979
Bank overdraft 19 (116) —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,725 1,979
54
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
1 General information 
The principal activity of Flowtech Fluidpower plc (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together, the “Group”) is the distribution of 
engineering components and assemblies, concentrating on the fluid power industry. The Company is a public limited company, 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is Pimbo Road, Skelmersdale, Lancashire 
WN8 9RB. The registered number is 09010518.
News updates, regulatory news, and financial statements can be viewed and downloaded from the Group’s website, 
www.flowtechfluidpower.com. Copies can also be requested from: The Company Secretary, Flowtech Fluidpower plc, Pimbo Road, 
Skelmersdale, Lancashire, WN8 9RB. Email: info@flowtechfluidpower.com; or telephone +44 (0) 1695 52796. 
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”s) as adopted for use in the European Union and IFRIC interpretations issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IASB”) and the Companies Act 2006. The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced disclosure framework’ (FRS 101).
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and prepared on the historical cost basis  
except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: financial instruments classified as fair value through the 
profit or loss. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and have been rounded to the nearest thousand (£000). The functional 
currency of the Company is sterling.
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or 
actions, actual events ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the 
consolidated financial statements.
2.2 Going concern 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors have prepared cash flow projections and are 
satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group’s forecasts 
and projections, which take into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to 
operate within the level of its current facilities. Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements.
2.3 Basis of consolidation 
On 24 April 2014, the Company was incorporated under the name Flowtech Fluidpower Limited. On 7 May 2014, Flowtech 
Fluidpower Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Flowtech Holdings Limited via a share for share exchange with the 
shareholders of Flowtech Holdings Limited. On 7 May 2014, Flowtech Fluidpower Limited was re-registered as a public limited 
company with the name Flowtech Fluidpower plc. Following the share for share exchange referred to above, Flowtech Fluidpower plc 
became the ultimate legal parent of the Group.
In the absence of an IFRS which specifically deals with similar transactions, management judge it appropriate to refer to other similar 
accounting frameworks for guidance in developing an accounting policy that is relevant and reliable. The Directors consider the share 
for share exchange transaction to be a group reconstruction rather than a business combination in the context of IFRS 3 (revised), 
‘Business Combinations’, which has been accounted for using merger accounting principles. Therefore, although the share for share 
exchange did not occur until 7 May 2014, the consolidated financial statements of Flowtech Fluidpower plc are presented as if the 
Flowtech Group of companies had always been part of the same group. Accordingly, the results of the Group for the entire year 
ended 31 December 2014 are shown in the comparatives of consolidated statement of comprehensive income on this basis.
Accordingly, the following accounting treatment was applied in respect of the share for share exchange:
•	 The assets and liabilities of Flowtech Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries were recognised in the consolidated financial statements 
at the pre-combination carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value;
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information
55
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
2 Accounting policies continued
•	 The retained losses and other equity balances recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2014 reflect the retained losses and other equity balances of Flowtech Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries 
recorded before the share for share exchange. However, the equity structure (share capital and share premium balances) shown in 
the consolidated financial statements reflects the equity structure of the legal parent (Flowtech Fluidpower plc), including the equity 
instruments issued under the share for share exchange. The resulting difference between the parent’s capital and the acquired 
Group’s capital has been recognised as a component of equity being the ‘merger reserve’. 
The Company had no significant assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities of its own at the time of the share for share exchange and no 
such consideration was paid.
Subsidiaries
The Group’s financial statements consolidate those of the parent Company and all of its subsidiaries as of 31 December 2015. The 
parent controls a subsidiary if it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. All subsidiaries have a reporting date of 31 December.
All transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation, including unrealised gains and losses 
on transactions between Group companies. Where unrealised losses on intra-group asset sales are reversed on consolidation, the 
underlying asset is also tested for impairment from a Group perspective. Amounts reported in the financial statements of subsidiaries 
have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Profit or loss and other comprehensive income of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are recognised from the 
effective date of acquisition, or up to the effective date of disposal, as applicable.
2.4 Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: 
a. they include no contractual obligations upon the Company (or Group as the case may be) to deliver cash or other financial assets 
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the 
Company (or Group); and 
b. where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes 
no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share 
capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 
2.5 Financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and 
trade and other payables.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, bank balances net of bank overdrafts and short term deposits held with banks by the 
Group, and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow 
statement only.
56
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
2 Accounting policies continued
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. Any change 
in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in profit or loss. Discounting is omitted where the effect is 
immaterial. Interest-bearing borrowings include invoice discounting facilities and stock loans. Cash flows on these items are treated 
net due to the large amounts, short maturities and the rapid turnover on cash receipts and cash payments.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments held by the Group include forward foreign currency contracts and are recognised at fair value. The 
gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises a financial liability (or its part) from the statement of financial position when, and only when it is extinguished, 
i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. The difference between the carrying amount of a 
financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) extinguished and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or 
liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that 
of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and less accumulated 
impairment losses. Lease payments are accounted for as described below.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of 
property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Property 50 years
Plant, machinery and equipment 3 to 20 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date.
2.7 Leased assets
Finance leases
Management applies judgement in considering the substance of a lease agreement and whether it transfers substantially all the risks 
and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset. Key factors considered include the length of the lease term in relation to 
the economic life of the asset, the present value of the minimum lease payments in relation to the asset’s fair value, and whether the 
Group obtains ownership at the end of the lease term.
See note 2.6 for the depreciation methods and useful lives for assets held under finance leases.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Operating lease payments
An operating lease is defined as a lease in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership remain with the 
lessor. Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
2.8 Business combinations 
Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of IFRSs’, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the 
acquisition method. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the 
date on which control is transferred to the Group. 
57
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
2 Accounting policies continued
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2011 (date of transition to IFRSs)
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The Group elected not to 
restate business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2011. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2011, goodwill is 
included at 1 January 2011 on the basis the amount recorded under UK GAAP . 
Acquisitions after 1 January 2011
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2011, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
•	 the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
•	 the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
•	 the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
•	 the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred and 
included in the separately disclosed ‘acquisition costs’ as part of administration expenses.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the 
contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
2.9 Intangible assets
Goodwill 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to operating segments and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment, or earlier if there is an indication of impairment. 
Acquired intangibles
Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition. Following the initial 
recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible is its cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged on the basis of the estimated useful life on a straight-line basis and the expense is taken to the income 
statement and included in the separately disclosed ‘amortisation of acquired intangibles’ as part of administration expenses  
(note 11).
The Group has recognised customer relationships as separately identifiable acquired intangible assets. The useful economic life 
attributed to each intangible asset is determined at the time of the acquisition and ranges from five to fifteen years.
Impairment reviews are undertaken when the Directors consider that there has been a potential indication of impairment.
2.10 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after making allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. Cost 
includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs in bringing them to their existing location and condition. 
2.11 Impairment
Financial assets (including receivables)
A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is 
objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after 
the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that 
can be estimated reliably.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. Interest on 
the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent event causes the amount 
of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
58
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
2 Accounting policies continued
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For goodwill, and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is estimated each year at the same time.
The recoverable amount of an asset or operating segment is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In 
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together by operating segments as defined in note 2.16. The goodwill 
acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is also allocated to the relevant operating segment. 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to operating segments that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitor the related goodwill. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its operating segment exceeds its estimated recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in respect of operating segments 
are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the segments, and then to reduce the carrying amounts 
of the other assets in the segment on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are 
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed 
if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the 
extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation 
or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
2.12 Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity 
and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension 
plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
2.13 Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at 
fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on 
a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is measured 
by use of the Black–Scholes model.
2.14 Provisions
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to 
the liability.
2.15 Revenue
Revenue is the total amount receivable by the Group for goods supplied, excluding VAT and discounts. Revenue from the sale of 
goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, 
which is determined to be at the point of despatch.
Revenues from the assembly of engineering components under long term contracts are not considered material.
59
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
2 Accounting policies continued
2.16 Operating segments
The Group comprises the following two operating segments which are defined by trading activity and geographic area:
Flowtechnology:
UK — distribution and assembly of engineering components, principally to distributors and end users in the UK and Eire.
Benelux — distribution of engineering components to distributors and end users in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Power Motion Control — based in the UK and Eire, distribution and assembly of engineering components and hydraulic systems to 
distributors and end users in the international market.
The Power Motion Control segment was referred to as ‘Primary’ in previous reports.
The Board is considered to be the chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM manages the business using an underlying 
profit figure. Only finance income and costs secured on the assets of the operating segment are included in the segment results. 
Finance income and costs relating to loans held by the Company are not included in the segment result that is assessed by the 
CODM. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis.
2.17 Financing income and expenses
Financing expenses comprise interest payable and finance charges on finance leases recognised in profit or loss using the effective 
interest method. Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested. Interest income and interest payable is 
recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method. 
2.18 Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive 
income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition 
of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business 
combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised. 
2.19 Adopted IFRS not yet applied
New standards and interpretations currently in issue (as at 2 February 2015) but not effective, for accounting periods commencing on 
1 January 2015 are:
•	 IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (IASB effective date 1 January 2018)
1
•	 IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (effective 1 January 2018)
•	 IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (IASB effective date 1 January 2019)
•	 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to IAS 19) (IASB effective date 1 July 2014)
2
•	 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 (IASB effective date 
1 January 2016)
1
•	 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle
2
•	 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle (effective 1 January 2016)
1
•	 Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements’ (effective 1 January 2016)
1
•	 Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (effective 1 January 2016)
1
1. Not adopted by the EU (as at 1 February 2016). 
2. EU mandatory effective date is financial years starting on or after 1 February 2015.
60
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
2 Accounting policies continued
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the 
European Union and require adoption by the Group in future reporting periods. 
2.20 Equity, reserves and dividend payments
Equity comprises the following:
•	 ‘Share capital’ represents the nominal value of equity shares 
•	 ‘Share premium’ represents the excess over nominal value of consideration received for equity share net of expenses of the share 
issue, less any costs associated with the issuing of shares
•	 ‘Currency translation reserve’ comprises all foreign exchange differences arising since 1 January 2011, arising from the translation 
of foreign operations 
•	 ‘Retained losses’ represent retained losses of the Group
•	 ‘Merger reserve’ represents the difference between the parent’s capital and the acquired Group’s capital retained losses and other 
equity balances before and after the share for share exchange which created the Group
•	 ‘Merger relief reserve’ represents merger relief arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries for which some or all of the consideration 
was settled in shares
•	 ‘Share-based payment reserve’ represents the provision made to date for share-based payments as detailed in note 2.13
All transactions with owners of the parent are recorded separately within equity.
Dividend distributions payable to equity Shareholders are included in other liabilities when the dividends have been approved in 
general meeting prior to the reporting date. 
2.21 Discontinued operations
Discontinued operation costs relate to ongoing commitments for properties relating to operations disposed of in the year ended  
31 December 2014. These costs were unforeseen at the time of disposal. 
2.22 Foreign currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is also the functional currency of the parent Company.
Foreign currency transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date 
are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on 
translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
61
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
2 Accounting policies continued
Foreign operations
In the Group’s financial statements, all assets, liabilities and transactions of Group entities with a functional currency other than 
sterling are translated into sterling upon consolidation. The functional currency of the entities in the Group has remained unchanged 
during the reporting period.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
to the Group’s presentational currency, sterling, at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date. The revenues and expenses of 
foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at 
the dates of the transactions. 
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are reported as an item of other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in the currency translation reserve. The Group has taken advantage of the relief available in IFRS 1 to deem the 
cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs (1 January 2011). On 
disposal of a foreign operation, the related cumulative translation differences recognised in equity are reclassified to profit or loss and 
are recognised as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
2.23 Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are described above, management have made judgements 
and estimations about the future that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. The 
estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The following judgements have the most significant effect on the financial statements.
Impairment of goodwill 
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment annually. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
operating segments to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is dependent on estimations of future cash flows from the operating 
segment and the use of an appropriate discount rate to discount those cash flows to their present value. The carrying value of 
goodwill as at 31 December 2015 is £46,223,000 (2014: £44,583,000). Refer to note 10 for further detail. There was no impairment 
charge during the year.
Acquired intangibles
Intangible assets (customer relationships) have been acquired as part of the net assets of certain subsidiaries. These intangible assets 
were capitalised at their fair value at the date of acquisition. Determining the value of acquired intangibles required the calculation of 
estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the intangible assets at a suitable discount rate in order to calculate their present 
value. In addition, an estimate of the useful life of the intangible asset has to be made over the period in which the cash flows were 
expected to be generated. The carrying amount of the acquired intangibles at the reporting date was £4,518,000 (2014: £2,995,000). 
Refer to note 11 for further detail.
Provision for impairment of inventories 
The carrying value of inventories as at 31 December 2015 is £13,254,000 (2014: £11,163,000) and included a provision against the 
inventories of £1,005,000 (2014: £1,045,000). During the year £120,000 (2014: £17,000) of the provision was utilised following the 
scrapping and sale of obsolete inventory. A further provision of £95,000 (2014: £15,000) was made. The provision for impairment of 
inventories is based on sales trends for all inventory and management’s estimation of recoverability. There is a risk that the provision 
will not match the inventories that ultimately prove to be impaired.
Share-based payments
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the calculation of the charge to the income statement in 
respect of share-based payments. These are described in more detail in note 24.
2.24 Separately disclosed items
Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in management’s judgement should be highlighted by virtue of their size 
or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance.
2.25 Investment in own shares
Own shares held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust have been classified as deductions from Shareholders’ funds.
62
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
3 Segment reporting
Management currently identifies the Group’s two operating segments based on geographic area and trading activity (see note 2.16). 
These operating segments are monitored by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker and strategic decisions are made on the 
basis of adjusted segment operating results.
The Directors believe that the underlying operating profit provides additional useful information on underlying trends to Shareholders. 
The term ‘underlying’ is not a defined term under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported 
by other companies. A reconciliation of the underlying operating result to operating profit/(loss) from continuing operations is shown 
below. The principal adjustments made are in respect of the separately disclosed items as detailed in note 4.
Segment information for the reporting periods is as follows:
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Flowtechnology
Power 
Motion 
Control 
Inter-
segmental 
transactions
Central 
costs
Total 
Continuing 
operations
UK 
£000
Benelux 
£000
UK 
£000 £000 £000 £000
Income statement – continuing operations:
Revenue from external customers 29,439 3,729 11,680 — — 44,848
Inter-segment revenue 860 99 231 (1,190) — —
Total revenue 30,299 3,828 11,911 (1,190) — 44,848
Underlying operating result 7,169 402 1,228 — (1,931) 6,868
Net financing (costs)/income (65) — 3 — (149) (211)
Underlying segment result 7,104 402 1,231 — (2,080) 6,657
Separately disclosed items (see note 4) (144) (22) (505) — (706) (1,377)
Profit before tax 6,960 380 726 — (2,786) 5,280
Specific disclosure items
Depreciation 389 23 93 — — 505
Amortisation — — 413 — — 413
Reconciliation of underlying operating result 
to operating profit:
Underlying operating result 7,169 402 1,228 — (1,931) 6,868
Separately disclosed items (see note 4) (144) (22) (505) — (706) (1,377)
Operating profit/(loss) 7,025 380 723 — (2,637) 5,491
63
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
3 Segment reporting continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Flowtechnology
Power 
Motion 
Control 
Inter-
segmental 
transactions
Central 
costs
Total 
Continuing 
operations
Benelux 
£000
UK 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Income statement – continuing operations:
Revenue from external customers 30,052 3,800 3,939 — — 37,791
Inter-segment revenue 654 60 — (714) — —
Total revenue 30,706 3,860 3,939 (714) — 37,791
Underlying operating result 6,899 497 369 — (1,619) 6,146
Net financing (costs)/income (141) (2) — — 27,229 27,086
Underlying segment result 6,758 495 369 — 25,610 33,232
Separately disclosed items (see note 4) (166) (30) (135) — (2,490) (2,821)
Profit before tax 6,592 465 234 — 23,120 30,411
Specific disclosure items
Depreciation 424 40 39 — — 503
Amortisation — — 130 — — 130
Reconciliation of underlying operating result 
to operating profit:
Underlying operating result 6,899 497 369 — (1,619) 6,146
Separately disclosed items (see note 4) (166) (30) (135) — (2,490) (2,821)
Operating profit/(loss) 6,733 467 234 — (4,109) 3,325
The Group’s revenues from external customers and its non-current assets (other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets) 
are divided into the following geographic areas:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Revenue
£000
Non-current 
assets
£000
Revenue
£000
Non-current 
assets
£000
United Kingdom 36,329 52,326 30,636 49,537
Europe 7,760 1,530 6,958 928
Rest of the World 759 — 197 —
Total 44,848 53,856 37,791 50,465
All revenue is derived from the sale of goods. No customers of the Group account for 10% or more of the Group’s revenue for either 
of the years ended 31 December 2014 or 2015. Non-current assets are allocated based on their physical location. 
Central costs relate to finance expenses associated with Group loans as detailed in note 6 and the costs of the shared service centre 
which include payroll costs, administration costs and separately disclosed items, as detailed in notes 4 and 5.
64
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
4 Operating profit
The following items have been included in arriving at the operating profit for continuing operations:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Impairment loss on other trade receivables and prepayments 62 84
(Gain)/loss on foreign currency transactions (105) 8
Impairment loss on inventory 95 15
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 491 487
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 14 16
Amortisation of intangible assets 413 130 
Profit on sale of plant and equipment (7) —
Operating lease rentals:
– Land and buildings 491 515
– Other 146 148
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on plant and equipment 136 111
Services provided by the Group’s Auditor
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Audit of the statutory consolidated and Company financial statements of Flowtech Fluidpower plc 20 20
Disclosure below based on amounts receivable in respect of other services to the Company 
and its subsidiaries
Amounts receivable by the Company’s Auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 62 45
Audit-related assurance services — 34
Services relating to corporate finance transactions (IPO) — 180
Services are provided by other professional advisors as deemed necessary by the management team.
Separately disclosed items
2015
£000
2014
£000
Separately disclosed items within administration expenses:
– Acquisition costs 299 206
– Amortisation of acquired intangibles (note 11) 413 130
– Share-based payment costs (note 24) 342 148
– Restructuring 323 45
– IPO costs — 2,292
Total separately disclosed items 1,377 2,821
•	 Acquisition costs relate to stamp duty, due diligence, legal fees and other professional costs incurred in the acquisition of Group 
subsidiaries
•	 Share-based payment costs relate to the provision made in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ following the issue of 
share options issued to employees subsequent to admission to AIM
•	 Restructuring costs relate to restructuring activities of both an operational and financial nature. Operational restructuring covers the 
closure of business units and the cost of applying Group operating policies to new units. Costs include: employee redundancies 
within these units; IT integration; continuing property costs post closure; and other onerous lease obligations. The costs of financial 
restructuring includes bank arrangement fees and associated legal costs
•	 IPO costs comprise the professional and other fees related to the IPO and costs of settlement of certain cash-settled Directors’ 
share obligations arising on the IPO accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Shared-based payment’
65
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
5 Directors and employees
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during each year, analysed by category, was as follows: 
Number 
2015 2014
Assembly and distribution 132 104
Administration 115 92
247 196
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Wages and salaries 5,669 4,725
Social security costs 547 498
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 166 124
Share-based payments (note 24) 342 148
6,724 5,495
Key management compensation 
The remuneration of the Directors and the Chairman, who are the key management of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for 
each of the key categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. 
2015
£000
2014
£000
Remuneration 591 523
Social security costs 65 63
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 14 27
Compensation for loss of office 154 —
Benefits in kind 6 6
Share-based payments 175 53
1,005 672
The amounts set out above include remuneration in respect of the highest paid Director as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Highest paid Director’s remuneration
Remuneration 220 202
Social security costs 29 26
Benefits in kind 1 1
Share-based payments 85 25
Total highest paid Director’s remuneration 336 254
Details of Directors’ emoluments are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 47.
6 Financial income and expense
Finance income for the year consists of the following:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Finance income arising from:
Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 4 2
Fair value gains on forward exchange contracts held for trading 18 31
Total finance income 22 33
66
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
6 Financial income and expense continued
Finance expenses for the year consist of the following:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Finance expense arising from:
Interest on invoice discounting and stock loan facilities 36 126
Overdraft interest — 1
Interest on revolving credit facility 41 —
Finance lease interest 3 3
Bank loans – current facilities 132 87
Other interest 21 14
Subtotal 233 231
Pre-IPO finance expenses:
Shareholder loans — 1,648
Other bank loans — 111
Subtotal — 1,759
Total finance expense 233 1,990
7 Taxation
Recognised in the income statement
Continuing operations:
2015
£000
2014 
£000
Current tax expense
Current year charge 1,231 1,058
Overseas tax 3 21
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (76) 67
Current tax expense 1,158 1,146
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (97) 43
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (11) (7)
Change in tax rate 7 2
Deferred tax (credit)/charge (101) 38
Total tax expense – continuing operations 1,057 1,184
Discontinued operations:
2015
£000
2014 
£000
Current tax expense — —
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences — 8
Change in tax rate — —
Deferred tax expense — 8
Total tax expense – discontinued operations — 8
Total tax expense in the income statement 1,057 1,192
No income tax was recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity for either of the years ended 31 December 2014 
or 2015. 
67
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
7 Taxation continued
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit for the year 4,092 28,731
Total tax expense 1,057 1,192
Profit excluding taxation 5,149 29,923
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) 1,042 6,433
Deferred tax movements not recognised 37 12
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (4) —
Other temporary differences — 36
Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances 1 2
Gains not chargeable — (6,244)
Amounts not deductible 68 886
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (87) 67
Total tax expense 1,057 1,192
Change in corporation tax rate
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were 
substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. Further reductions to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective 1 April 2020) were 
substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax assets 
and liabilities at 31 December 2015 have been calculated based on these rates.
8 Dividends
2015 
£000
2014
£000
Final dividend of 3.33p (2014: nil) per share 1,426 —
Interim dividend of 1.75p (2014: 1.67p) per share 749 715
Total dividends 2,175 715
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.50p (2014: 3.33p) per share 
which will absorb an estimated £1.508 million of Shareholders’ funds. This has not been accrued as it had not been approved at the 
year end. Subject to approval, it will be paid on 24 June 2016 to Shareholders who are on the register of members on 3 June 2016.
68
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary Shareholders by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares during the year.
For diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all 
dilutive potential ordinary shares. The dilutive shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less 
than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year. 
Year ended 31 December 2015 Year ended 31 December 2014
Earnings
£000
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares 
000s
Earnings per 
share
Pence
Earnings
£000
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares
 000s
Earnings per 
share
Pence
Basic earnings per share
 Continuing operations 4,223 42,869 9.85 29,227 25,542 114.42
 Discontinued operations (131) 42,869 (0.30) (496) 25,542 (1.94)
Basic earnings per share 4,092 42,869 9.55 28,731 25,542 112.48
Diluted earnings per share
 Continuing operations 4,223 43,387 9.73 29,227 25,897 112.86
 Discontinued operations (131) 43,387 (0.30) (496) 25,897 (1.92)
Diluted earnings per share 4,092 43,387 9.43 28,731 25,897 110.94
2015
000s
2014
000s
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic and diluted earnings per share 42,869 25,542
Impact of share options 518 355
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 43,387 25,897
10 Goodwill
The movements in the net carrying amount of goodwill are as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Gross carrying value
Balance at 1 January 44,583 42,684
Acquired through business combinations (notes 25.1 and 25.2) 1,829 2,059
Amounts eliminated on disposal — (160)
Balance at 31 December 46,412 44,583
Accumulated impairment 
Balance at 1 January — 160
Impairment charge — —
Amounts eliminated on disposal — (160)
Balance at 31 December — —
Carrying amount at 31 December 46,412 44,583
The goodwill acquired during the year relates to the acquisition of Albroco Limited and Nelson Fluid Power Limited and its 
subsidiaries; see notes 25.1 and 25.2. The acquisitions have been recognised in the Power Motion Control operating segment. 
69
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
10 Goodwill continued
Impairment testing
For the purpose of annual impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the operating segments as detailed in note 2.16 as they are 
expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combinations on which the goodwill arises, as follows:
2015
£000
2014 
£000
Flowtechnology UK 41,676 41,676
Flowtechnology Benelux 848 848
Power Motion Control 3,888 2,059
Total at 31 December 46,412 44,583
Recoverable amounts for operating segments are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell. The recoverable 
amount of each operating segment has been calculated with reference to its value in use. 
Growth rates
The value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for the Group based on the Group’s latest financial forecasts which are for a 
period of three years, which are extrapolated for a further two years and are completed with a ten year perpetuity. The annual growth 
rate used varies from 1.9% to 5% between the operating segments. The Group’s latest financial forecasts, which cover a three year 
period, are reviewed by the Board. 
Discount rates
The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate value is 10% (2014: 10%).This discount rate is derived from the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital. 
Cash flow assumptions
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in 
margins. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market. 
The growth rates used in the value in use calculation reflect the average growth rate experienced by the Group for the industry. 
In respect of the goodwill attributed to the Flowtechnology UK segment, the headroom compared to the carrying value exceeds  
£18 million. Increasing the discount rate to 21% and leaving all other factors the same would lead to the recoverable amount being 
equal to the carrying value of the goodwill attributed to the Flowtechnology UK segment. 
In respect of the goodwill attributed to the Flowtechnology Benelux segment, the headroom compared to the carrying value exceeds 
£5 million. Increasing the discount rate to 81% and leaving all other factors the same would lead to the recoverable amount being 
equal to the carrying value of the goodwill attributed to the Flowtechnology Benelux segment.
In respect of the goodwill attributed to the Power Motion Control segment, the headroom compared to the carrying value exceeds  
£14 million. Increasing the discount rate to 59% and leaving all other factors the same would lead to the recoverable amount being 
equal to the carrying value of the goodwill attributed to the Power Motion Control segment.
70
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
11 Other intangible assets
Customer relationships
2015
£000
2014
£000
Gross carrying value
Balance at 1 January 3,125 —
Acquired through business combinations – customer relationships (note 25.1 and 25.2) 1,597 3,125
Balance at 31 December 4,722 3,125
Amortisation and impairment 
Balance at 1 January 130 —
Amortisation 413 130
Balance at 31 December 543 130
Carrying amount at 31 December 4,179 2,995
Additions in the year relate to customer relationships acquired with the businesses of Albroco Limited and Nelson Fluid Power 
Limited. The estimated useful life has been determined as ten years based on the expected future cash flows that they would 
generate in arriving at their fair value.
The amortisation of customer relationships is charged to administration costs in the Consolidated Income Statement and is referred 
to as the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
12 Subsidiary undertakings 
Country of
incorporation Principal activity Ownership
 2015 
Flowtech Mid-Co Limited UK Holding company 100%
Flowtech Limited UK Distributors of engineering components 100%
Flowtechnology Benelux B.V. Netherlands Distributors of engineering components 100%
Vitassem Limited UK Dormant 100%
Flowtechnology CZ Limited UK Assembly of engineering components 100%
Flowtech Europe Limited UK Holding company 100%
Flowtechnology Asia Limited UK Holding company 100%
IPL Fluid Power Limited UK Dormant 100%
Flowtechnology HK Limited China Holding company 100%
Flowtech Holdings Limited UK Holding company 100%
Flowtech MIP Limited UK Holding company 100%
Primary Fluid Holdings Limited UK Holding company 100%
Primary Fluid Power Limited UK Assembly and distribution of engineering components 100%
KR Couplings UK Dormant 100%
Albroco Limited UK Distributors of engineering components 100%
Betabite Hydraulics Limited UK Dormant 100%
Nelson Fluid Power Limited UK Holding Company 100%
Nelson Hydraulics Limited UK Assembly and distribution of engineering components 100%
Hydraulics (Ireland) Limited UK Dormant 100%
Hydrodynamics Power Engineering 
Limited UK Dormant 100%
For all the subsidiaries above the class of shares held are ordinary shares and all subsidiaries, except Flowtech MIP Limited, are 
indirect subsidiaries of Flowtech Fluidpower plc.
71
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
12 Subsidiary undertakings continued
On 29 May 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares in Albroco Limited.
On 3 July 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares in Nelson Fluid Power Limited. 
On 11 November 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares in Betabite Hydraulics Limited, a newly incorporated company.
On 15 December 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares in KR Couplings Limited, a dormant company.
13 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
property
£000
Plant, 
machinery 
and 
equipment
£000
Motor 
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2014 — 5,656 — 5,656
Additions 5 491 — 496
Disposals — (75) — (75)
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 25.1) 1,070 46 103 1,219
Effect of movements in foreign exchange — (50) — (50)
Balance at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 1,075 6,068 103 7,246
Additions 13 677 60 750
Disposals — — (28) (28)
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 25.1) — 38 107 145
Effect of movements in foreign exchange — (28) — (28)
Balance at 31 December 2015 1,088 6,755 242 8,085
Depreciation and amortisation
Balance at 1 January 2014 — 3,927 — 3,927
Depreciation charge for the year 8 476 19 503
Disposals — (27) — (27)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange — (44) — (44)
Balance at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 8 4,332 19 4,359
Depreciation charge for the year 25 432 48 505
Disposals — — (19) (19)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange — (25) — (25)
Balance at 31 December 2015 33 4,739 48 4,820
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 1,055 2,016 194 3,265
At 1 January 2015 1,067 1,736 84 2,887
At 1 January 2014 — 1,729 — 1,729
At year end the net book value of leased plant, machinery and equipment was £46,000 (2014: £47,000). Included in land and 
property is land at a cost of £145,000 which is not depreciated (2014: £145,000).
72
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Intangible assets — — (884) (598)
Property, plant and equipment — — (165) (133)
Financial assets 1 1 — —
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings — 6 — —
Provisions 70 35 — —
Employee share-based payments 37 13 — —
Tax assets/(liabilities) 108 55 (1,009) (731)
Net deferred tax liability (901) (676)
A deferred tax asset of £50,000 (2014: £96,000) in respect of cumulative share-based payments of £277,000 (2014: £480,000 
relating to losses) has not been recognised due to uncertainty surrounding the availability of future profits, against which these 
payments can be utilised.
Movement in deferred tax during the year ended 31 December 2015
1 January
2015 
£000
Recognised
in profit or loss
£000
Acquired during 
the year
£000
31 December
2015 
£000
Intangible assets (note 25.1, 25.2) (598) 73 (319) (844)
Property, plant and equipment (133) (25) (7) (165)
Financial assets 1 — — 1 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6 (6) — —
Provisions 35 35 — 70
Employee share-based payments 13 24 — 37
(676) 101 (326) (901)
Movement in deferred tax during the year ended 31 December 2014
  
1 January 
2014
£000
Recognised in 
profit or loss
£000
Acquired during 
the year
£000
31 December 
2014
£000
Intangible assets — 27 (625) (598)
Property, plant and equipment (109) 9 (33) (133)
Financial assets 11 (10) — 1
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 38 (32) — 6
Provisions 6 39 (10) 35
Employee share-based payments — 13 — 13
(54) 46 (668) (676)
15 Inventories 
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Finished goods and goods for resale 13,254 11,163
Changes in finished goods recognised as cost of sales in the year amounted to £26,140,000 (2014: £21,831,000). The write down 
or reversal of inventories to net realisable value amounted to a write down of £95,000 (2014: write down of £15,000). The write 
downs and reversals are included in cost of sales. The provision made against inventories at the year end was £1,005,000 (2014: 
£1,045,000).
Estimates are made of the net realisable value of inventory at the year end. In some circumstances, inventory is subsequently sold in 
excess of the net realisable value determined, which results in a reversal of the write down.
73
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
16 Trade and other receivables
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Trade receivables 10,068 9,311
Other receivables 299 218
Trade receivables and other receivables 10,367 9,529
17 Other financial assets
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current 
Financial assets – forward exchange contracts 32 24
18 Cash and cash equivalents
2015
£000
2014 
£000
Cash and cash equivalents:
Sterling 830 1,125
Euro 930 845
Dollar 81 9
Total cash and cash equivalents 1,841 1,979
19 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured 
at amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 32.
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Non-current liabilities
Secured bank loans 4,857 5,714
Finance lease liabilities 17 2
Total non-current liabilities 4,874 5,716
Current liabilities
Secured bank loans 857 857
Bank overdraft 116 —
Revolving credit facility 5,000 —
Invoice discounting facility — 2,096
Finance lease liabilities 13 20
Total current liabilities 5,986 2,973
Total 10,860 8,689 
Terms and debt repayment schedule 
Currency Nominal interest rate
Year of 
maturity
Carrying value
2015 
£000
Carrying value
2014 
£000
Secured bank loan GBP Libor + 1.5% 2018 5,714 6,571
Secured revolving credit facility GBP Libor + 1.8% 2018 5,000 —
Invoice discounting facility GBP Libor + 3% n/a — 2,096
Finance lease liabilities GBP Various 4.8% to 13.7% 2019 30 22
10,744 8,689
74
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
19 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
The invoice discounting facility was repaid during the year and replaced with a revolving credit facility of up to £8,000,000 which is 
subject to a non-utilisation fee of 0.7%. The bank loans and revolving credit facility are secured by legal charges over certain of the 
Group’s assets which include trade receivables and stock. Group bank accounts are in a netting-off facility and overdrafts are not 
subject to interest.
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Minimum lease 
payments
2015 
£000
Interest
2015 
£000
Principal
2015 
£000
Minimum lease 
payments
2014
£000
Interest
2014
£000
Principal
2014
£000
Less than one year 15 2 13 24 4 20
Between one and five years 19 2 17 2 — 2
More than five years — — — — — —
34 4 30 26 4 22
20 Trade and other payables
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current
Trade payables 4,321 3,657
Accrued expenses 1,299 1,076
Social security and other taxes 1,005 682
6,625 5,415
21 Deferred and contingent consideration
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Non-current liabilities
Contingent consideration 898 —
Total non-current liabilities 898 —
Current liabilities
Deferred consideration — 1,603
Contingent consideration 1,250 —
Total current liabilities 1,250 1,603
Total 2,148 1,603
The contingent consideration is payable to the former owners of Albroco Limited and Nelson Fluid Power Limited on the first and 
second anniversaries of the acquisition by the Group as detailed in notes 25.1 and 25.2.  
75
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
22 Provisions
Dilapidation 
provision 
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Balance at 1 January 2015 104 129 233
Provisions made during the year 26 45 71
Amount utilised — (88) (88)
Balance at 31 December 2015 130 86 216
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current 86 71
Non-current 130 162
Total 216 233
The dilapidation provision is held in respect of leasehold properties held by the Group and represents management’s best estimate 
of the amount which is expected to be settled in respect of dilapidation costs for the relevant sites. This is expected to be utilised in 
more than five years. 
The other provisions are held primarily in respect of leasehold properties which are vacant. Provision has been made for the residual 
lease commitments and dilapidations, after taking into account assumptions relating to periods of vacancy. This is expected to be 
utilised by the end of 2016. 
23 Other financial liabilities
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current 
Financial liabilities – foreign exchange contracts 15 27
24 Employee benefits
24.1 Pension plans
Defined contribution plans 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in each year was 
£166,000 (2014: £124,000).
24.2 Share-based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2015, the Group maintained four share-based payment schemes for employee remuneration: the Management 
Incentive Plan; the Enterprise Management Incentive Plan, which has two sub plans, Approved and Unapproved; and the Company 
Share Option Plan.
Management Incentive Plan
The Management Incentive Plan is part of the remuneration package of the Group’s senior management. Shares held in Flowtech MIP 
Limited under this plan may be sold if certain conditions, as defined in the Articles of Association of Flowtech MIP Limited, are met. 
It is based on the growth of Flowtech Fluidpower plc’s share value within a specified holding period. In addition, participants in this 
scheme must be employed by the Group until the end of the agreed holding period. At the end of the holding period the holder may 
sell their shares to the Company for either cash or shares at a value determined by the growth of Flowtech Fluidpower plc’s share 
value within the specified holding period. The Plan is classified as an equity-settled scheme as there is no present obligation to settle 
in cash.
76
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
24 Employee benefits continued
The number of shares in Flowtech MIP Limited subject to options and the exercise price are:
Date of grant Exercise period 2015 Number 2014 Number
21 May 2014 11 April 2017 to 10 August 2024 540 720
The fair values of the options granted were determined using a variation of the Black-Scholes model that takes into account factors 
specific to share incentive plans, such as the vesting period. The following principal assumptions were used in the valuation:
MIP scheme
Grant date 21 May 2014
Vesting period ends 10 April 2017
Share price at date of grant £1.00
Volatility 30.7%
Option life 6.25 years
Dividend yield 5.15%
Risk-free investment rate 1.29%
Fair value at grant date £1.00
Exercise price at date of grant £1.30
Exercisable from to 11 April 2017 to 20 May 2024
Weighted average remaining contractual life 8 years
The underlying expected volatility was determined by reference to historical share data of a group of the Company’s peers over the 
past six years in accordance with the expected exercise period of the schemes.
Enterprise Management Incentive Plan
The Enterprise Management Incentive Plan (EMI) is part of the remuneration package of certain employees, the majority of options 
being issued on the date the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange. The sub plans are named Approved and 
Unapproved by virtue of whether the plans qualify for HMRC approval, the Unapproved Plan being mainly related to the CEO and 
non-UK resident employees. Options under this scheme will vest if the participant remains employed for the agreed vesting period. 
Upon vesting each option allows the holder to purchase one ordinary share.
The number of shares subject to options and the exercise price are:
Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period
2015 Number
000s
2014 Number
000s
Approved Plan
21 May 2014 £1.00 11 April 2017 to 20 May 2024 1,700 2,095
8 August 2014 £1.26 11 April 2017 to 7 August 2024 138 138
30 June 2015 £1.36 11 April 2017 to 7 August 2024 50 —
1,888 2,233
Unapproved Plan
21 May 2014 £1.00 11 April 2017 to 20 May 2024 472 517
11 August 2015 £1.32 11 April 2018 to 10 August 2025 140 —
612 517
 2,500 2,750
77
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
24 Employee benefits continued
Share options and weighted average exercise prices are as follows for the reporting periods presented:
Enterprise Management Incentive Plan
Approved scheme Unapproved scheme
Number of 
shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per share
Number of 
shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per share
Total number 
of shares
Outstanding at 1 January 2015 2,233 1.02 517 1.00 2,750
Granted 50 1.36 140 1.32 190
Lapsed (15) 1.00 — — (15)
Forfeited (60) 1.00 (45) 1.00 (105)
Exercised (320) 1.00 — — (320)
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 1,888 1.03 612 1.07 2,500
Exercisable at 31 December 2014 — — — — —
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 — — — — —
The weighted average share price per share at the date of exercise was £1.35.
The fair values of the options granted were determined using a variation of the Black-Scholes model that takes into account factors 
specific to share incentive plans, such as the vesting period. The following principal assumptions were used in the valuation:
Unapproved EMI 
scheme
Approved EMI 
scheme
Approved EMI 
scheme
EMI scheme 
Unapproved and 
Approved 
Grant date 11 August 2015 30 June 2015 8 August 2014 21 May 2014
Vesting period ends 10 August 2018 10 April 2017 10 April 2017 10 April 2017
Share price at date of grant £1.44 £1.34 £1.26 £1.00
Volatility 36.6% 36.6% 36.6% 36.6%
Option life 6.5 years 6.25 years 6.25 years 6.25 years
Dividend yield 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0%
Risk-free investment rate 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5%
Fair value at grant date £1.46 £1.35 £1.11 £1.11
Exercise price at date of grant £1.32 £1.36 £1.26 £1.00
Exercisable from to 11 August 2018
 to 10 August 2025
11 April 2017
 to 20 May 2024
11 April 2017 
to 20 May 2024 
11 April 2017 
to 20 May 2024
Weighted average remaining contractual life 9 years 8 years 8 years 8 years
The underlying expected volatility was determined by reference to historical share data of a group of the Company’s peers over the 
past six years in accordance with the expected exercise period of the schemes.
Company Share Option Plan
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”) is part of the remuneration package of certain employees. The options were issued on  
11 August 2015. Options under this scheme will vest if the participant remains employed for the agreed vesting period. Upon vesting 
each option allows the holder to purchase one ordinary share.
The number of shares subject to options and the exercise price are:
Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period
2015 Number
000s
2014 Number
000s
11 August 2015 1.43 11 April 2018 to 10 August 2025 130 —
78
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
24 Employee benefits continued
Share options and weighted average exercise prices are as follows for the reporting periods presented:
Number of 
shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per share
Outstanding at 1 January 2015 — —
Granted 130 1.43
Forfeited — —
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 130 1.43
Exercisable at 31 December 2014 — —
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 — —
The fair values of the options granted were determined using a variation of the Black-Scholes model that takes into account factors 
specific to share incentive plans, such as the vesting period. The following principal assumptions were used in the valuation:
CSOP scheme
Grant date 11 August 2015
Vesting period ends 10 August 2018
Share price at date of grant £1.44
Volatility 36.6%
Option life 6.5 years
Dividend yield 5.0%
Risk-free investment rate 1.5%
Fair value at grant date £1.46
Exercise price at date of grant £1.43
Exercisable from to 11 April 2018 to 20 May 2025
Weighted average remaining contractual life 9 years
The underlying expected volatility was determined by reference to historical share data of a group of the Company’s peers over the 
past six years in accordance with the expected exercise period of the schemes.
In total, £342,000 (2014: £148,000) of employee remuneration expenses, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions, has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
25 Acquisitions and disposals
25.1 Acquisition of Albroco Limited
On 29 May 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Albroco Limited, a UK-based business, thereby obtaining control. 
The acquisition was made to enhance the Group’s position in the hydraulic market. During July 2015 the trade and assets of Albroco 
Limited were transferred to Primary Fluid Power Limited, a fellow Group subsidiary and member of the Power Motion Control 
operating segment.
79
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
25 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Details of the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration, goodwill and intangible assets 
are as follows:
Book value
£000
Fair value 
adjustment 
£000
Intangible 
asset 
recognised on 
acquisition
£000
Provisional fair 
value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 20 (20) — —
Intangible assets — — 482 482
Inventories 414 (227) — 187
Trade and other receivables 305 (2) — 303
Cash and cash equivalents 434 — — 434
Trade and other payables (246) 5 — (241)
Current tax balances (53) — — (53)
Provisions — (17) — (17)
Deferred tax liability — — (96) (96)
Total net assets 874 (261) 386 999
£000
Fair value of consideration paid
Amount settled in cash 1,028
Fair value of contingent consideration 389
Total consideration 1,417
Less net assets acquired (999)
Goodwill on acquisition (note 10) 418
Fair values are provisional as subject to management estimations at the reporting date.
Consideration transferred
Albroco Limited was acquired on 29 May 2015 for a total consideration of £1,417,000 comprising £1,028,000 in cash and £389,000 
contingent cash consideration. The contingent consideration is due to be paid on 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 and is contingent 
on the gross profit of the Albroco customer base exceeding £400,000 in each of the 12 month periods ending 31 May 2016 and 
31 May 2017. The maximum consideration payable is £2,000,000. The fair value of £389,000 has been estimated by management 
using a discount rate of 8.72%, being the weighted average cost of capital of Albroco Limited and sales forecasts prepared by 
management at the time of acquisition, and these have been reviewed for performance up to the reporting date.
Acquisition costs and stamp duty amounting to £55,000 have been recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement 
as part of separately disclosed administration costs.
Goodwill
Goodwill of £418,000 is primarily related to expected future profitability and expected cost synergies from the closure of the 
operational site and transfer of activities into existing Group locations. Goodwill has been allocated to the Power Motion Control 
operating segment and is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
Intangible asset
An intangible asset of £482,000 has been identified related to customer relationships. The estimated useful life has been determined 
as ten years based on the expected future cash flows that they would generate in arriving at their fair value. The customer 
relationships considered in the valuation comprise those purchasing control components, a product group which is new to the 
segment, but complementary to existing sales streams. Sales growth over the ten year period has been assumed to be 1.5% with an 
attrition rate of 7.5% for customers. Growth and attrition rates are based on a review of sales and customer records. Amortisation of 
customer relationships is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
80
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
25 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Fair value adjustments
The value of property, plant and equipment has been decreased by £20,000 to reflect the write down of assets acquired which were 
not put into use by the Group.
The value of inventories has been decreased by £227,000 to reflect the alignment of the Albroco Limited stock provisioning policy 
with that of the Group.
The value of debtors has been decreased by £2,000 to reflect the alignment of the Albroco Limited debtor provisioning policy with 
that of the Group.
The value of trade and other payables has been decreased by £5,000 to reflect the write back of various purchase ledger balances.
The value of provisions has been increased by £17,000 to reflect the dilapidation costs relating to properties leased by the Company. 
Albroco Limited’s contribution to the Group results
Albroco Limited generated a profit after tax of £33,000 for the seven months from 29 May to the reporting date. If Albroco Limited 
had been acquired on 1 January 2015, revenue for the Group would have been £45,516,000 and profit after tax for the year would 
have increased by £89,000.
Summary aggregated financial information on Albroco Limited for the period from 1 January 2015 to 29 May 2015, when it became a 
subsidiary:
2015 
£000
Revenues 668
Profit 89
25.2 Acquisition of Nelson Fluid Power Limited
On 3 July 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Nelson Fluid Power Limited (“NFP”) and its subsidiaries, a UK-
based business, thereby obtaining control. The acquisition was made to enhance the Group’s position in the hydraulic market.
Details of the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration, goodwill and intangible assets 
are as follows:
Book value
£000
Fair value 
adjustment 
£000
Intangible 
asset 
recognised on 
acquisition
£000
Provisional fair 
value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 179 (34) — 145
Intangible assets — — 1,115 1,115
Inventories 1,314 (153) — 1,161
Trade and other receivables 1,888 (37) — 1,851
Cash and cash equivalents 2,183 — — 2,183
Finance leases (17) — — (17)
Trade and other payables (1,095) — — (1,095)
Current tax balances (80) — — (80)
Provisions — (25) — (25)
Deferred tax liability (7) — (223) (230)
Total net assets 4,365 (249) 892 5,008
81
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
25 Acquisitions and disposals continued
£000
Fair value of consideration paid
Amount settled in cash 4,652
Assets retained as consideration 8
Fair value of contingent consideration 1,759
Total consideration 6,419
Less net assets acquired (5,008)
Goodwill on acquisition (note 10) 1,411
Fair values are provisional as subject to management estimations at the reporting date.
Consideration transferred
Nelson Fluid Power Limited was acquired on 3 July 2015 for a total consideration of £6,419,000 comprising £4,660,000 in cash and 
assets and £1,759,000 contingent cash consideration. The contingent consideration is due to be paid on 31 July 2016 and 31 July 
2017 and is contingent on the profits of the NFP group of companies exceeding £500,000 in each of the 12 month periods ending 
30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017. The maximum consideration payable is £2,375,000. The fair value of £1,759,000 has been 
estimated by management using a discount rate of 8.64%, being the weighted average cost of capital of NFP and sales forecasts 
prepared by management at the time of acquisition, and these have been reviewed for performance up to the reporting date.
Acquisition costs and stamp duty amounting to £212,000 have been recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income 
Statement as part of separately disclosed administration costs.
Goodwill
Goodwill of £1,411,000 is primarily related to expected future profitability, the substantial skill and expertise of its workforce and 
expected cost synergies from the combined buying power of the Group. Goodwill has been allocated to the Power Motion Control 
operating segment and is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
Intangible asset
An intangible asset of £1,115 has been identified related to customer relationships. The estimated useful life has been determined as 
ten years based on the expected future cash flows that they would generate in arriving at their fair value. The customer relationships 
considered in the valuation primarily comprise those in the crushing, screening, agricultural and fishing sectors which are new to the 
segment. Sales growth over the ten year period has been assumed to be 1.5% with an attrition rate of 2.7% for customers. Growth 
and attrition rates are based on a review of sales and customer records. Amortisation of customer relationships is not expected to be 
deductible for tax purposes.
Fair value adjustments
The value of property, plant and equipment has been decreased by £34,000 to reflect the write down of assets to their market value 
at the date of acquisition.
The value of inventories has been decreased by £153,000 to reflect the alignment of the NFP stock provisioning policy with that of  
the Group.
The value of debtors has been decreased by £37,000 to reflect the alignment of the NFP debtor provisioning policy with that of  
the Group.
The value of provisions has been increased by £25,000 to reflect the dilapidation costs relating to properties leased by the Company. 
Nelson Fluid Power Limited’s contribution to the Group results
Nelson Fluid Power Limited generated a profit after tax of £264,000 for the six months from 3 July to the reporting date. If Nelson 
Fluid Power Limited had been acquired on 1 January 2015, revenue for the Group would have been £48,508,000 and profit after tax 
for the year would have increased by £239,000.
Summary aggregated financial information on Nelson Fluid Power Limited for the period from 1 January 2015 to 3 July 2015, when it 
became a subsidiary:
2015 
£000
Revenues 3,660
Profit 239
82
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
26 Equity
The share capital of the Company consists only of fully paid ordinary shares with a nominal value of 50p per share. All shares are 
equally eligible to receive dividends and the repayment of capital and represent one vote at Shareholders’ meetings of the Company.
Number £000
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 50p each at 31 December 2015 43,078,282 21,539
Shares authorised for share-based payments 6,666,667 3,333
Total shares authorised at 31 December 2015 49,744,949 24,872
Number £000
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 50p each 
At January 2015 42,828,283 21,414
Share issued in respect of loan to Employee Benefit Trust 249,999 125
At 31 December 2015 43,078,282 21,539
On 9 November 2015, 249,999 ordinary shares of 50p were issued and transferred to the Flowtech Fluidpower Employee Benefit 
Trust (EBT) under a loan agreement with the EBT.
27 Net cash from operating activities
2015
£000
2014
£000
Reconciliation of profit before taxation to net cash flows from operations
Profit from continuing operations before tax 5,280 30,411
Loss from discontinued operations before tax (131) (348)
Depreciation 505 503
Financial income (22) (33)
Financial expense 232 1,990
Gain on settlement of debt — (29,043)
Profit on sale of plant and equipment (7) —
Amortisation of intangible assets 413 130
Equity-settled share-based payment charge 342 148
Operating cash inflow before changes in working capital and provisions 6,612 3,758
Change in trade and other receivables 1,628 408
Change in stocks (688) 12
Change in trade and other payables (136) (752)
Change in provisions (60) 62
Cash generated from operations 7,356 3,448
Tax paid (1,413) (1,213)
Net cash generated from operating activities 5,943 2,275
28 Discontinued operations
The results of the discontinued operations included in the loss for the period relate to unexpected property and legal costs relating to 
a subsidiary sold in the prior year. 
There are no material net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and financing activities of discontinued operations.
83
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
29 Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Less than one year 632 581
Between one and five years 970 1,135
More than five years 239 —
1,841 1,716
The Group acts as a lessee for land and buildings, plant and machinery and motor vehicles, under operating leases. The Group’s 
significant lease arrangements are for properties, for which there are no significant lease incentives. As at 31 December 2015, the 
property lease periods range from less than one year to twelve years. The disclosures above for non-cancellable operating lease 
rentals have been split out below to show the split between land and buildings and other assets which include motor vehicles.
2015 2014
Land and 
buildings
£000
Other
£000
Land and 
buildings
£000
Other
£000
Less than one year 519 113 441 140
Between one and five years 810 160 966 169
More than five years 239 — — —
1,568 273 1,407 309
During the year £637,000 was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases relating to continuing 
operations (2014: £663,000). During the year £nil was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating 
leases relating to discontinued operations (2014: £41,000). 
30 Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Group had capital expenditure of £77,000 contracted for but not provided at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
31 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company, its Employee Benefit Trust and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated 
on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Key management includes Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The compensation paid or payable to key management is 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 47.
Other than the transactions set out above, the Group has not entered into any transactions with any related parties who are not 
members of the Group.
84
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
32 Financial instruments
32.1 Fair values of financial instruments
Fair values
The table below analyses financial instruments into a fair value hierarchy based on the valuation technique used to determine fair value. 
•	 Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
•	 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
•	 Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable input).
Carrying 
amount
2015 
£000
Fair 
value
2015 
£000
Level 2
2015 
£000
Level 3
2015 
£000
Carrying 
amount
2014 
£000
Fair 
value
2014 
£000
Level 2
2014 
£000
Financial assets held for trading 
(including all derivatives) (note 17)
Forward exchange contracts 32 32 32 — 24 24 24
Total financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss 32 32 32 — 24 24 24
Financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss (including all 
derivatives) (note 23)
Forward exchange contracts (15) (15) (15) — (27) (27) (27)
Contingent consideration (2,148) (2,148) — (2,148) — — —
Total financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss (2,163) (2,163) (15) (2,148) (27) (27) (27)
There have been no transfers in either direction during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. 
The reconciliation of the carrying amounts of financial instruments classified within level 3 is as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Balance at 1 January — —
Arising on business combinations 2,148 —
Balance at 31 December 2,148 —
85
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
32 Financial instruments continued
The Group is exposed to various risks in relation to financial instruments. Each of these is disclosed in the table below.
Carrying 
amount
2015 
£000
Fair 
value
2015 
£000
Level 2
2015 
£000
Level 3
2015 
£000
Carrying 
amount
2014 
£000
Fair 
value
2014 
£000
Level 2
2014 
£000
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents (note 18)¹ 1,841 1,979
Trade and other receivables  
(note 16)¹ 10,367 9,529
Total financial assets not measured 
at fair value 12,208 11,508
Total financial assets at fair value 32 32 32 24 24 24
Financial assets 12,240 11,532
Financial liabilities measured at 
amortised cost
Deferred consideration (note 21) — (1,603)
Other interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings (note 19) (10,860) (8,689)
Trade payables and accruals  
(note 20)
1
(5,620) (4,733)
Total financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost (16,480) (15,025)
Financial liabilities at fair value
Forward exchange contracts (15) (15) (15) (27) (27) (27)
Contingent consideration (note 21) (2,148) (2,163) (2,148)
Total financial liabilities at fair value (2,163) (2,163) (15) (2,148)
Total financial liabilities (18,643) (15,052)
Total financial instruments (6,403) (3,520)
1. The Group has not disclosed the fair value for financial instruments such as short term trade receivables and payables, and cash and cash equivalents, because their carrying amounts are a 
reasonable approximation of fair values.
Financial instruments measured at fair value Valuation technique
Forward exchange contracts The Group's interest rate swap contracts are not traded in active markets. These 
have been fair valued using observable interest rates corresponding to the maturity of 
the contract, through direct confirmation from the provider of the contract. 
Contingent consideration The fair value of contingent consideration at 31 December 2015 related to the 
acquisitions of Albroco Limited and Nelson Fluid Power Limited and is estimated 
using a present value technique. The £2,148,000 fair value is measured by 
reference to the future cash outflows. The cash outflows reflect management's best 
estimate of the amount payable. 
Financial instruments not measured at fair value Valuation technique
Bank loans and other interest-bearing 
borrowings 
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest 
cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
86
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
32 Financial instruments continued
32.2 Credit risk
Financial risk management 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced 
mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Management also consider the factors that may influence the credit risk 
of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate. The Group has 
an established credit policy under which the credit status of each new customer is reviewed before credit is advanced. This includes 
external evaluations where possible. Credit limits are established for customers and outstanding balances are reviewed regularly by 
management. 
The concentration of credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region was:
2015
£000
2014 
£000
UK 8,717 8,205
Europe 1,230 1,076
Rest of the World 121 30
10,068 9,311
Credit quality of financial assets and impairment losses
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was:
Gross
2015 
£000
Impairment
2015 
£000
Gross 
2014 
£000
Impairment
2014 
£000
Not past due 9,380 76 8,902 82
Past due 0-30 days 615 8 521 16
More than 30 days 260 103 46 60
10,255 187 9,469 158
Some of the unimpaired trade receivables are past due as at the reporting date. These past due debtors are not resultant from any major 
disputes with customers. There have been no other indicators that would cast doubt over the creditworthiness of such customers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade receivables. The 
movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during each year was as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Balance at 1 January 158 188
Net change due to acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 35 44
Provision utilised (68) (158)
Increase in provision 62 84
Balance at 31 December 187 158
The allowance account for trade receivables is used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the 
amount owing is possible; at that point the amounts considered irrecoverable are written off against the trade receivables directly.
87
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
32 Financial instruments continued
32.3 Liquidity risk
Financial risk management 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Management monitor and 
manage liquidity for the Group and ensure that the Group has sufficient headroom in its committed facilities to meet unforeseen or 
abnormal requirements. Available headroom is monitored via the use of detailed cash flow forecasts. Particular focus is given to 
management of working capital. 
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Carrying 
amount
£000
Contractual 
cash flows
£000
 1 year 
or less
£000
1 to
 2 years
£000
2 to
 5 years
£000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured bank loan 5,714 5,942 963 945 4,034
Finance lease liabilities 30 34 15 15 4
Revolving credit facility 5,000 5,033 5,033 — —
Trade payables 4,321 4,321 4,321 — —
Derivative financial liabilities 
Other forward exchange contracts:
Net payment 15 15 15 — —
15,080 15,345 10,347 960 4,038
Year ended 31 December 2014
Carrying 
amount
£000
Contractual 
cash flows
£000
1 year 
or less
£000
1 to
 2 years
£000
2 to
 5 years
£000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured bank loan 6,571 6,921 980 962 4,979
Finance lease liabilities 22 26 24 2 —
Invoice discounting facility 2,096 2,096 2,096 — —
Trade payables 3,657 3,657 3,657 — —
Derivative financial liabilities 
Other forward exchange contracts:
Net payment 27 27 27 — —
12,373 12,727 6,784 964 4,979
There are no contractual maturities over five years.
32.4 Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
While currently the Group’s term bank debt is floating Libor linked, the Board reviews its option to fix the rates attached to this debt 
through the use of interest rate swap derivatives. 
Market risk — Foreign currency risk
The main currency related risk to the Group comes from forward purchasing of inventories and from its foreign operations. This risk 
is mainly managed by entering into forward currency contracts. The Group does not apply hedge accounting in respect of these 
forward currency contracts; the changes in fair value have been recognised in the profit or loss. 
88
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
32 Financial instruments continued
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows. This is based on the carrying amount for monetary financial instruments 
except derivatives when it is based on notional amounts.
31 December 2015
Sterling
£000
Euro
£000
US Dollar
£000
Total
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 830 930 81 1,841
Trade and other receivables 9,528 793 46 10,367
Secured bank loans (5,714) — — (5,714)
Revolving credit facility (5,000) — — (5,000)
Finance lease liabilities (30) — — (30)
Trade payables (2,499) (1,686) (136) (4,321)
Forward exchange contracts — (36) — (36)
Net exposure (2,885) 1 (9) (2,893)
31 December 2014
Sterling
£000
Euro
£000
US Dollar
£000
Total
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 1,125 845 9 1,979
Trade and other receivables 9,030 462 37 9,529
Secured bank loans (6,571) — — (6,571)
Invoice discounting facility (2,096) — — (2,096)
Finance lease liabilities (22) — — (22)
Trade payables (2,480) (1,131) (46) (3,657)
Forward exchange contracts — 119 (493) (374)
Net exposure (1,014) 295 (493) (1,212)
Sensitivity analysis
A 10% weakening of the following currencies against the pound sterling at 31 December 2015 would have increased/(decreased) 
equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the reporting date and 
had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange 
rates and interest rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Profit or loss and equity
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
€ 4 (91)
$ 5 43
A 10% strengthening of the following currencies against the pound sterling at 31 December 2015 would have increased/(decreased) 
equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet 
date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other 
exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Profit or loss and equity
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
€ (4) 100
$ (6) (48)
89
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued
32 Financial instruments continued
Market risk – Interest rate risk
Profile
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Fixed rate instruments
Financial liabilities 30 22
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (carrying value) 10,714 8,667
Sensitivity analysis 
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by 
the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the reporting date and had been applied to risk 
exposures existing at that date. 
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial 
instruments with variable interest rates, financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss and the fixed rate element of interest 
rate swaps. The analysis is performed on the same basis for the year ended 31 December 2014.
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Equity
Increase of 100 basis points (107) (61)
Decrease of 100 basis points 107 61
Profit or loss
Increase of 100 basis points (107) (61)
Decrease of 100 basis points 107 61
32.5 Capital management
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the statement of financial position and includes equity cash and borrowings. The 
statement of changes in equity provides details of equity and note 19 provides details of loans and overdrafts. Short and medium 
term funding requirements are provided by a revolving credit facility. Longer term funding is sourced from a combination of these 
facilities. The Group’s objectives when managing capital including short to medium term working capital and amortising, long 
term borrowings are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and have access to adequate funding for business 
opportunities, so that it can provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group manages the capital 
structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in economic conditions and risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In 
order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may issue new shares or draw down debt. The Group is not subject to 
externally imposed regulatory capital requirements. There are no specific ratios used by the Group in assessing its management of 
capital levels.
The Group is subject to covenants in respect of its bank loans and facilities. The Group remains compliant. There were no changes in 
the Group’s approach to capital management during each year.
Management assess the Group’s capital requirements in order to maintain an efficient overall financing structure while avoiding 
excessive leverage. This takes into account the subordination levels of the Group’s various classes of debt. The Group manages 
the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of 
the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares, or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group maintains sufficient cash levels to enable it to meet its liabilities as they fall due. Management review cash flow forecasts 
on a regular basis to determine whether the Group has sufficient cash reserves to meet future working capital requirements, financing 
obligations and to take advantage of business opportunities. In reviewing cash flows and identifying the need for further funds, 
management consider the nature of cash flow requirements and take appropriate action.
90
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
33 Subsequent events
The trade and certain assets of the UK division of Indequip Limited were acquired on 19 February 2016 for a total cash consideration 
of £0.9 million. The cash consideration was funded out of existing Group resources. Indequip has a complementary product range 
to the Group’s existing pneumatics ranges and brings new customers to the Group. Significant savings are expected from the 
integration of the employees and operations into the Skelmersdale site.
Hydravalve (UK) Limited was acquired on 18 March 2016 for an initial consideration of £2.1 million in cash with contingent 
consideration of £1.0 million anticipated to be paid over the next two years. The cash consideration was funded out of existing Group 
resources. It is a specialist distributor of valves and associated equipment to the process industry based in Willenhall in the West 
Midlands. The business has a specialist customer base within the process industry and will become the initial investment in a new 
“Process” division for the Group. Hydravalve will add significantly to the Group’s procurement position in valves.
There are no other material adjusting or non-adjusting events subsequent to the reporting date.
91
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Company Statement of Financial Position
Note
2015
£000
2014
£000
Fixed assets
Investments G 57,251 57,015
Deferred tax assets L 34
Total fixed assets 57,285 57,015
Current assets
Trade and other debtors H 21,777 20,767
Cash and cash equivalents I 1 1
Total current assets 21,778 20,768
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings J 857 857
Trade and other creditors K 583 425
Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,440 1,282
Net current assets 20,338 19,486
Total assets less current liabilities 77,623 76,501
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings J 4,857 5,714
Total creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 4,857 5,714
Net assets 72,766 70,787
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital M 21,539 21,414
Share premium account 46,880 46,664
Share-based payment reserve 332 96
Retained earnings 4,015 2,613
Total equity 72,766 70,787
The financial statements on pages 92 to 97 were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 April 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Bryce Brooks 
Director
Company Registration Number: 09010518
92
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Share
 capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
£000
Share -based 
payment 
reserve
 £000
Retained 
earnings
 £000
Total 
equity 
£000
Balance on incorporation — — — — —
Profit for the period — — — 3,275 3,275
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — 3,275 3,275
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 21,414 48,993 — — 70,407
Share issue expenses — (2,329) — — (2,329)
Share options – cost — — — 53 53
Share options – granted to subsidiary employees — — 96 — 96
Equity dividends paid (note E) — — — (715) (715)
Total transactions with owners 21,414 46,664 96 (662) 67,512
Balance at 1 January 2015 21,414 46,664 96 2,613 70,787
Profit for the year — — — 3,582 3,582
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 3,582 3,582
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 125 216 — — 341
Share options – cost — — — (5) (5)
Share options – granted to subsidiary employees — — 236 — 236
Equity dividends paid (note E) — — — (2,175) (2,175)
Total transactions with owners 125 216 236 (2,180) (1,603)
Balance at 31 December 2015 21,539 46,880 332 4,015 72,766
93
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
Notes to the Company Financial Information
A Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement of Compliance with FRS 101
The financial statements of Flowtech Fluidpower plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board 
of Directors on 12 April 2016 and the Statement of Financial Position was signed on the Board’s behalf by Bryce Brooks. Flowtech 
Fluidpower plc is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ 
(FRS 101) and in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company’s financial statements are presented in sterling. 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis except for the modification 
to a fair value basis for certain financial instruments as specified in the accounting policies below.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in note B.
B Accounting policies
The Company transitioned from UK GAAP to FRS 101 for all periods presented. There were no material amendments on the adoption 
of FRS 101. The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:
a. the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of:
i. paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
ii. paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’;
b. the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f),39(c) and 134-136 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ and the 
requirements of IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’;
c. the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’;
d. the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’;
e. the requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more 
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
A summary of the more important accounting policies is set out below. 
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
There is no impact resulting from the adoption of FRS 101.
Investments
All investments are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of consideration given including the acquisition costs associated with 
the investment. Subsequently, they are reviewed for impairment on an individual basis if events or changes in circumstances indicate 
the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
Share-based payments
The fair value of employee share plans is calculated using a variation of the Black–Scholes model. In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-
based payment’, the resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the plans. 
Where the individuals are employed by the parent Company, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense 
with a corresponding increase in equity. Where the individuals are employed by a subsidiary undertaking, the fair value of options to 
purchase shares in the Company that have been issued to employees of subsidiary companies is recognised as an additional cost of 
investment by the parent Company. An equal amount is credited to other equity reserves.
Dividends 
Dividend distributions payable to equity Shareholders are included in other liabilities when the dividends have been approved in 
general meeting prior to the reporting date. 
Pensions
Company employees are members of defined contribution pension schemes where the obligations of the Company are charged to 
the profit and loss account as they are incurred.
94
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
C Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account. 
Flowtech Fluidpower plc reported a profit for the financial period of £3.582 million (2014: £3.275 m). 
D Services provided by the Company’s Auditor
During the period the Company obtained the following services provided by the Company’s Auditor at the costs detailed below:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Audit of the statutory financial statements of Flowtech Fluidpower plc 20 20
Audit related assurance services — 34
Services relating to corporate finance transactions (IPO) — 180
E Dividends paid and proposed
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Final dividend of 3.33p (2014: nil) per share 1,426 —
Interim dividend of 1.75p (2014: 1.67p) per share 749 715
2,175 715
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.50p(2014: 
3.33p) per share which will absorb an estimated £1.508 million of Shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 24 June 2016 to 
Shareholders who are on the register of members on 3 June 2016.
F Share-based payments
Details of share-based payments are shown in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
G Investments
Cost and net book value
Investments in 
subsidiaries’ 
unlisted shares
£000
Subsidiaries’ 
share-based 
payment 
reserves
£000
Total
£000
At 1 January 2015 56,919 96 57,015
Additions — 236 236
At 31 December 2015 56,919 332 57,251
H Trade and other debtors
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Current:
Prepayments and accrued income 354 9
Amounts owed by group undertakings 21,423 20,758
Total trade and other debtors 21,777 20,767
I Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Sterling 1 1
Total cash and cash equivalents 1 1
95
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Our Financials
J Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Non-current liabilities
Secured bank loans 4,857 5,714
Total non-current liabilities 4,857 5,714
Current liabilities
Secured bank loans 857 857
Total current liabilities 857 857
Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 5,714 6,571
The bank loan is repayable in instalments over the period to 8 May 2018 and is secured by legal charges over certain assets of the 
Flowtech Group which include trade receivables and stock. 
K Trade and other creditors
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Social security and other taxes 24 22
Accruals and deferred income 233 144
Amounts owed to other group undertakings 326 259
Total trade and other creditors 583 425
L Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets comprise:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Provisions 34 —
Total deferred tax 34 —
At start of year — —
Deferred tax credit in profit and loss account for the year 34 —
At end of year 34 —
A deferred tax asset of £27,000 (2014: £nil) in respect of cumulative share-based payments of £138,000 (2014: £nil) has not been 
recognised due to uncertainty surrounding the availability of future profits, against which these payments can be utilised.
M Share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Number £000
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 50p each
At 1 January 2015 42,828,283 21,414
Shares issued in respect of loan to Employee Benefit Trust 249,999 125
At 31 December 2015 43,078,282 21,539
Full details of share movements are provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Potential issue of shares
Details of the potential issue of shares relating to employee share-based payment schemes are shown in note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Notes to the Company Financial Information continued
96
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
N Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company has no capital expenditure contracted for but not provided at 31 December 2015.
O Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101 not to disclose transactions with entities that 
are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Flowtech Fluidpower plc Group. A loan of £341,000 was made to the Flowtech Fluidpower 
Employee Benefit Trust to enable it to buy shares in the Company. There are no other related party transactions other than those 
relating to Directors that have been disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
P Company principal subsidiaries
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
Q Ultimate controlling party
The Directors consider that there is no ultimate controlling party.
Flowtech Fluidpower plc  
Registered office 
Pimbo Road 
Skelmersdale 
Lancashire 
WN8 9RB
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Email: info@flowtechfluidpower.com
97
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 23844.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Shareholder Notes
98
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
99
STRATEGIC REPORT
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS 24579.04 20 April 2016 4:55 PM Proof 2
Shareholder Notes
100
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Registered office
Pimbo Road
Skelmersdale
Lancashire
WN8 9RB
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Email: info@flowtechfluidpower.com
Flowtech Fluidpower PLC  Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
