 Fuller Smith & Turner P .L.C.
Annual Report 2015
My Fuller’ s ...
‘ Great experience at any time of the day. ’
Nina Dahl 
The Blue Boat, Fulham Reach  £m
2015 321.5
2014 288.0
2013 271.5
 £m
2015 36.4
2014 34.1
2013 31.1
 £m
2015 58.7
2014 54.5
2013 51.2
1
    Adjusted profit before tax excluding exceptionals. The Directors believe that this measure provides useful information for shareholders as to the internal measures of the performance of the Group.
Fuller Smith & Turner 
 Overview
1 Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
 Strategic Report
4 At a Glance
7 Strategy and Progress
8 Chief Executive’s Review
18 Financial Review
22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
24 Corporate Social Responsibility
 Governance
32 Board of Directors
34 Directors’ Report
37 Directors’ Statement
38 Corporate Governance Report
43 Directors’ Remuneration Report
 Financial Statements
58 Independent Auditor’s Report
62 Group Income Statement
63  Group and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income
64 Group and Company Balance Sheets
65  Group and Company Statements of  
Changes in Equity
67 Group and Company Cash Flow Statements
68 Notes to the Financial Statements
 
 Additional Information
109 Directors and Advisors
110 Shareholder Information
111 Glossary
113 Five Years’ Progress
You can help us to minimise our environmental     impact by opting to view our report online at     www.fullers.com
Revenue
£321.5m+12%
Adjusted profit
1
£36.4m+7%
EBITDA
£58.7m+8%
Operating from the historic Griffin Brewery site 
in Chiswick, Fuller’s is an independent family 
brewer and pub company whose brands include 
the world-famous ESB and London Pride, the UK’s 
best selling premium cask ale.
Fuller’s has an estate of 391 pubs and hotels – split 
between Managed and Tenanted houses – located 
primarily in London and the South of England.  p
2015 51.51
2014 46.94
2013 42.18
 p
2015 16.60
2014 15.10
2013 13.70
 Times
2015 2.7
2014 2.5
2013 2.6
2
    Pro forma net debt to EBITDA is adjusted as appropriate for the pubs acquired or disposed in the period.
Financial Highlights
This year we brewed 215,000 barrels of award-
winning ale at the Griffin Brewery, beside the 
Thames in Chiswick. From here we supply our 
estate, which comprises 188 Managed Pubs 
and Hotels and 203 Tenanted Inns, as well as 
pubs, clubs and supermarkets across the UK 
and overseas.
Managed Pubs and Hotels like for like sales 
up 6.3% and profits up 11%.
Tenanted Inns like for like profits up 5% 
and average EBITDA per pub up 5%.
The Fuller’s Beer Company revenue up 6% 
and total beer and cider volumes up 4%.
Adjusted earnings per share
51.51p+10%
Total dividend per share
16.60p+10%
Pro forma net debt to EBITDA
2
2.7 times
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  1
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Chairman’s Statement
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘Quality in absolutely everything. ’
Michael Turner 
Chairman
2  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 This year sees the 170th anniversary of the Fuller, Smith & 
Turner partnership – and I’m delighted to announce that 
we are celebrating with another set of excellent results and 
a business that is in great shape to embark on the next chapter 
in our story. The team has yet again delivered in all areas and 
I congratulate them all for their dedication, creativity and 
hard work.
Our  Made of London  campaign has   helped to drive sales of our flagship   brand and we were delighted when   it received two awards in the inaugural   Beer Marketing Awards this year.
By continuing to focus on our clear vision,   to create and operate the most stylish pubs   and hotels whilst brewing Britain’s most coveted   premium brands for discerning customers   both at home and abroad , we have seen total   revenue increase by 12% to £321.5 million (2014:   £288.0 million) and a resulting increase in   adjusted profit before tax of 7% to £36.4 million   (2014: £34.1 million). One of the key figures for our   shareholders is adjusted earnings per share, which   I am pleased to say has risen by 10% to 51.51p   (2014: 46.94p).   Once again, we have outperformed the market   with our Managed Pubs and Hotels, which have   seen total sales grow 15%, like for like sales increase   by 6.3%, and profits
3
 rise by 11%. We have invested   significantly in our estate and added eight new   pubs in a variety of interesting locations including   our first airside pub, at Heathrow Terminal 2,   and two new sites on the River Thames. A new   recruitment website has improved the way we   attract and hire team members and, having invested   in our training and development programmes for   some years, I am delighted to see some high profile   internal promotions during the year.
Our Tenanted Inns have been star performers   with exceptional results and like for like profits   rising by 5%. Total profits have risen by 2% and   this has come during a difficult period for the   tenanted model. Tenanted Director Mike Clist   has played a lead role in representing both Fuller’s   and the wider industry in recent negotiations   with Government and I was delighted to see his   commitment honoured when he was recognised   for his Outstanding Contribution to the Industry   at the  Publican Awards .
It has also been a good year for the Fuller’s Beer   Company, with total beer and cider volumes   rising by 4% and profits rising by 2%. The  Made of   London campaign for our flagship ale London   Pride has driven sales, we launched a delicious   new golden ale, Oliver’s Island, grew Frontier   Craft  Lager sales to make it our second biggest   brand in the UK and expanded distribution of   the premier American craft beer, Sierra Nevada.   I would also like to thank The Chancellor for his   third consecutive cut in beer duty, which has   done much to reverse the damage done by the   dreaded duty escalator.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to announce a final dividend   of  10.20p  (2014:  9.30p)  per  40p  ‘A’  and  ‘C’  ordinary  share and 1.02p (2014: 0.93p) per 4p ‘B’ ordinary   share.  This  will  be  paid  on  27  July  2015  to  shareholders  on the share register as at 26 June 2015. The total   dividend per share of 16.60p per 40p ‘A’ and ‘C’   ordinary share and 1.66p per 4p ordinary share   represents a 10% increase on last year and will   be covered more than three times by adjusted   earnings per share.   Michael Turner 
Chairman
4 June 2015
3
    Operating profit before exceptional items.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  3
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview  
 
 
Group operating profit by division
1
 £m
Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels 25.0
Fuller’s Tenanted Inns 12.6
Fuller’s Beer Company 8.7
1
Excludes central costs.
 
 
 
Managed and Tenanted houses
Managed pubs within M25 113
Tenanted pubs within M25 58
Tenanted pubs outside M25 145
Managed pubs outside M25 75
 
 
 
Total beer and cider barrels by channel
 %
Fuller’s Tenanted Inns 11.4
Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels 22.1
Free On Trade 39.5
Off Trade 13.4
Exports 13.6
At a Glance
Nikki Cooper, Founder, The Stable
Nikki Cooper, with husband Richard and brother 
in law Andy, founded The Stable in 2009 when they 
decided to put to use a dilapidated outbuilding at 
their Bridport Hotel. Focusing on an extensive range 
of craft ciders and gourmet pizzas made with local 
ingredients, the trio had six restaurants in 2014 when 
Fuller’s took a 51% stake. This investment will take 
The Stable to a wider audience with two more 
restaurants already open and exciting growth plans 
for the future.
Managed Pubs and Hotels
Managed Pubs and Hotels are operated   by Fuller’s employees and include     188 pubs and hotels. Our acquisitions     are carefully targeted towards prime   locations in market towns with our target   demographics, high footfall locations in   transport hubs and iconic pubs in our   home city of London.
Our estate is primarily in the South and   South East of the UK and includes 113 pubs  within the M25. We focus on freshly   prepared seasonal food and an aspirational   premium drinks range, delivered with   exceptional service and in a stylish and   comfortable environment. This year we   acquired The Stable, a craft cider and   gourmet pizza business, which operates   seven sites in the South West of the UK.
Tenanted Inns
The Tenanted Inns division has 203 pubs,   where the individual pubs are run by   self-employed  entrepreneurs,  who  work  in partnership with us, selling our beer   and operating under the Fuller’s brand.
We offer our tenants a high level of support,   including a variety of tools and services     to help them grow their businesses.     This includes a bespoke website,     a property compliance package,     free WiFi and subsidised training for     their staff.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
As London’s longest standing brewer,     we continually bring new products to   market whilst proudly brewing the UK’s   No.1 premium ale, London Pride.     We proactively develop our portfolio     of beers, providing variety and interest     for consumers, producing a different   seasonal ale every month.   Cornish Orchards produces a range   of premium award-winning ciders and   a range of distinctive soft drinks.
We directly deliver our own beer and   cider, as well as other drinks products to   our pubs and our free trade customers in   the South East. Our customers value the   high quality service we provide.
188
Managed Pubs and Hotels
203
Tenanted Inns
No. 1
Premium ale in the UK
4  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Helping us realise our 
dreams of expansion. ’
Nikki Cooper 
Founder, The Stable 
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  5
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ An active part of the 
local community.’
Reverend Andrew Downes 
Curate, St Nicholas Church
6  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Strategy and Progress
Reverend Andrew Downes, Curate, 
St Nicholas Church
The Reverend Andrew Downes is the curate of St 
Nicholas church in Chiswick. It’s next door to the 
Griffin Brewery and was built by Henry Smith, one 
of our founding fathers. The church has launched an 
appeal to raise £1.1 million for a new organ and stone 
work renovations and we’re doing our bit to help. 
It  does help that Father Andrew is such a big fan 
of London Pride and a great supporter of Fuller’s.
Distinctive Pub  
and Hotel Experience
Investing in:
— Our people
— Our retail offer
— Behind the scenes
— Customer experience
— Customer feedback
Progress in FY 2015
—   Excellent like for like (“LFL”) Managed sales up   6.3% driven by a superior food offering
—   Tenanted LFL profits up 5% – best performance   in a decade driven by increased investment   in repairs
—   New  recruitment  website  now  live  and  attracting  best in class applicants
—   Launched the Chef Scholarship Programme to   further distinguish our food offering     Priorities for FY 2016
—   Continue to invest through the business   cycle helping to drive LFL sales growth   and gross margins
—   Focus on developing our people to become   managers and chefs of the future
—   Integrate new sites and support The Stable   with systems and evolving its offer
Market influence
Current consumer trends include a focus on   the provenance of food, authenticity of brands,   healthier options and good value
Targeted Acquisitions  
and Developments
Targeted acquisitions and 
developments in:
— High footfall transport hubs
— Iconic London pubs
— Affluent market towns
Progress in FY 2015
—   Two new riverside pub developments:   The Blue Boat, Fulham Reach opened   March 2015 and One Over the Ait,   Kew Bridge opened November 2014
—   Acquired the iconic pub The Harp, Covent   Garden and five additional pubs for a total   of £21.5 million
—   Acquired a majority investment in The Stable   to complement our existing offering
—   Over £18.0 million invested to sustain the   quality of our existing estate   Priorities for FY 2016
—   Development of The Sail Loft, Greenwich
—   Expanding The Stable operations to at least   12 sites in total
—   Further refurbishments to sustain quality   or reposition properties     Market influence
London and the South East continue to   outperform the rest of the UK market   Premium  
Brand Portfolio
Focusing on:
— Well-invested equipment and processes
— Skilled brewers
— Constant innovation
— Putting flavour first
Progress in FY 2015
—   Successful launch of Oliver’s Island, a new   golden cask ale
—   Completed the integration of Sierra Nevada   with distribution more than doubled
—   Westside Drinks making inroads to new   high-end markets with Sierra Nevada, Frontier   and Cornish Orchards   —   Secured new listings in on and off trades for   Fuller’s, Cornish Orchards and agency brands     Priorities for FY 2016
—   Drive sales of Cornish Orchards and Frontier   through all channels
—   Continue to build on successful London   Pride advertising
—   Capitalise on the Rugby World Cup     Market influence
Consumers increasingly want more interesting   choices and are prepared to pay a premium   for authentic, quality craft products
The Strategic Report, encompassing pages 7 to 31, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf   on 4 June 2015:     Simon Emeny James Douglas 
Chief Executive  Finance Director
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  7
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview  %
2015 5
2014 2
2013 1
 %
2015 6.3
2014 8.3
2013 2.1
Chief Executive’s Review
It has been another year of excellent progress for the Company 
and I am delighted to be reporting growth in all three areas of 
the business. Our Managed Pubs and Hotels business continues 
to outperform the industry, the Fuller’s Beer Company 
has seen growth in all channels and our Tenanted business 
has had an outstanding year.
We have a robust business model that has   continuously evolved over time, keeping us at the   forefront of our industry and providing a base for   us to always look for new opportunities to keep   the business fresh, relevant and in a strong position  to grow for the future. These opportunities have   to complement our overall vision to provide a first   class experience for discerning customers.
To that end, we have built on our acquisition   of Cornish Orchards Cider in 2013 with the   acquisition of a 51% stake in The Stable, a craft   cider and gourmet pizza business. This unique   operation, which comprised six sites when we   initially invested, is a perfect   fit  with  our  Company.  Run by the inspirational  founders,  Richard  and  Nikki Cooper, we have already opened more sites   and The Stable has an exciting future ahead.   Following our acquisition of the UK distribution   rights in 2014, we have more than doubled   distribution of Sierra Nevada. Founded by   Ken Grossman in Chico, California in 1979, Sierra   Nevada is another like-minded family business   and is revered by the beer fraternity worldwide.   It  complements our own and agency ranges,  offering yet another original and authentic brand   for customers both in our own pubs and the wider   free trade.
All of this activity is supported by the best people   in the industry. This year has seen a big advance   in the way we recruit team members for our pubs   and we have increased the investment we make   in training and developing our people across all   parts of the business. This combination of a clear   strategy, the flexibility and financial firepower   to take advantage of new opportunities and   the recruitment, development and retention   of excellent people will ensure Fuller’s continues   to lead the market.
Fuller’s Inns
Fuller’s Inns has again led the Company’s growth   with like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and   Hotels rising by 6.3% and operating profit
4
 growing   by 11% to £25.0 million (2014: £22.5 million). Our   Tenanted Inns have also had a fantastic year, with   like for like profits rising by 5% and average EBITDA  per pub rising by 5%. We have long extolled the   virtues of having a balanced business and it is   very pleasing to see both parts of the retail business   performing at a high level. At the year end, we had   188 Managed Pubs and Hotels and 203 Tenanted   Inns, making a total estate of 391 sites.
During the year, we have added eight new sites to   our estate. Two of these, The Blue Boat on Fulham   Reach and One Over the Ait on Kew Bridge, have   fantastic views across the River Thames, while   The Windmill in Portishead overlooks the Severn   Estuary. We also took on the The Cromwell Arms   in Romsey and The Bull Hotel in Bridport, which   added a further 29 bedrooms to our business, and   we opened two more sites at transport hubs – The   Three Guineas, an acquisition at Reading Station   and London’s Pride, a new development at The   Queen’s Terminal (Terminal 2), Heathrow. The eighth   site is a true icon – The Harp in Covent Garden,   a former CAMRA Pub of the Year where we are   committed to maintaining the wide and interesting   range of breweries represented on the bar.
In addition, we have invested a record amount in   our largest ever number of projects across our   existing estate. Over £18 million has been invested  in projects in both our managed and tenanted   businesses. Of particular note is The Admiralty,   the only pub on Trafalgar Square, which we   opened on Trafalgar Day in October last year.   The pub beautifully evokes the history and   heritage of its location and, with its Ale & Pie   format, is already proving very popular with   Londoners and tourists alike.
Tenanted like for like profits
+5%
Managed like for like sales
+6.3%
4
    Operating profit before exceptional items.
8  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Leading the best team 
in the industry. ’
Simon Emeny 
Chief Executive
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  9 Chief Executive’s Review continued
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ A great career in a flagship pub . ’
Kate Ross 
Manager, One Over the Ait, Kew Bridge
10  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Kate Ross, Manager, One Over the Ait, Kew Bridge
Kate Ross joined Fuller’s three years ago as deputy 
manager at the Turk’s Head in Twickenham. After 
just 18 months, she was appointed to her first 
management position. Today, Kate is the manager at 
One Over the Ait – a flagship, riverside development 
on Kew Bridge. With two trading floors, plenty of 
outside seating and a team of 30 to support her, 
the future has never looked brighter.
Every pint of our Seafarer’s Ale bought   helps raise money for Seafarers UK,   a charity vital to supporting the UK’s   maritime community. Last year’s sales   raised over £32,000 for the charity.   Managed Pubs and Hotels
Our Managed Pubs and Hotels continue to   outperform the industry with another year of   strong like for like growth of 6.3%, generating total   revenues of £213.8 million (2014: £186.0 million) –   an increase of 15%. Our operating profits increased   by 11% to £25.0 million (2014: £22.5 million),   reflecting the increased capital investment in our   estate and 108 weeks of closure while these   redevelopments took place. Next year, we intend   to continue this programme with an even greater   number of projects scheduled.   Acquisitions and investment in our current pubs   have helped to realise our vision of creating and   operating stylish pubs with a focus on delicious,   fresh cooked food and an excellent portfolio   of premium drinks. Our sales have increased     in all areas of the business – like for like food sales   are up by 7.8%, drinks sales are up 5.6% and   accommodation has risen by 7.3%.   The performance of our Managed Pubs was   recognised by the industry at this year’s  Publican  Awards, where we took the title of Managed Pub   Company of the Year. We also picked up a second   award  in  recognition  of  the  high  standard  of  our  food  and the way in which we train our chefs and work   with our suppliers. In addition, we were recognised   for the quality of our capital investment programme   at the  Restaurant and Bar Design Awards , where   both The Vintry at Cannon Street and the Tap on   the Line at Kew Gardens station picked up trophies.   Finally, London’s Pride at Heathrow’s Terminal 2 was   awarded the title Best Destination Opening at the   CGA  Peach Hero & Icon Awards .  Digital marketing of both food and occasions   has increased during the year and we have had a   particular focus on responding to online feedback.   We offer new customers who sign up to our   database a welcome email with a free pint on   offer and we are seeing opening rates of 70%, way   above the norm. Fuller’s was one of the very early   adopters of online table bookings in the pub   sector and, combined with our dedicated events   sales team, our managers have the tools they   need to attract diners and functions and the   customer has a simple and quick route to finding   and booking a suitable venue.
Our food sales continue to be a key driver in our   Managed Pubs and Hotels. Over the last four   years, we have been improving the way we recruit   and train chefs and kitchen teams and this has   included the chef scholarship programme, which   offers three levels aimed at developing the head   chefs of the future. The programme has been very   well received with 70 team members taking part   in at least one level in the last year – bringing the   total since the programme started in 2012 to over   200. We are one of the only companies where   everyone from the kitchen porter upwards   benefits from a training programme and this   year two of our head chefs were promoted to   management roles as executive chefs.
This investment in training extends right through   service, food, cellar and beer quality and even   coffee – where The Fields, our one and only coffee   shop,  located  in  Ealing,  provides  a  venue  for  barista  training. We are now selling around 1.2 million cups   of hot beverages every year and this has grown by   10% in the last year. Our coffee is also available   Only at Fuller’s  and the blend was chosen by the   coffee masters at Matthew Algie, the gourmet   coffee roaster, in conjunction with the Fuller’s   brewing manager, Georgina Young.   Working with our suppliers has also enabled us to   offer a series of master classes to our chefs on   topics from butchery to strawberries. This continued   commitment to fresh food, cooked to a high   standard of taste and presentation, developing our   people through formal training and informal sessions   with suppliers, has resulted in higher customer   advocacy and sales growth. We have also improved  our food marketing, with interesting campaigns   revolving around seasonal ingredients and flavours.
Finally, we also continued with our  Only at Fuller’s   range, introducing a delicious Sipsmith’s Gin   Lemon  Cake  among other products. Our   London  Porter  Smoked Salmon was available at   the Cheltenham Festival and during the year we   sold  over  70,000  Vintage Ale Sticky Toffee   Puddings. We also launched   the  Fuller’s  Chip  Off  to find the best chips in our Managed Pubs – The   Pilot in Chiswick is the current holder of this title.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  11
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Chief Executive’s Review continued
Cookie, Severn & Wye Smokery
We teamed up with Richard Cook, or Cookie as he’s 
better known, in 2012. He took a range of our beers 
and decided to see what flavours they could create 
when smoked with his excellent salmon. Our 
London Porter came out tops and now London 
Porter smoked salmon is the best-selling starter in 
our managed pubs and it’s available in Fortnum & 
Mason too.
The success of our pubs is totally dependent   on our people and this year we launched a new   recruitment  website,  with  full  mobile  optimisation,  which we believe is a game changer in the hunt   to secure the best talent. The online recruitment   process includes a situational judgement test that   identifies people with a talent for exceptional   customer service. The system ensures that our   managers only interview suitable candidates   and, by hiring better, we are already seeing team   members staying longer which, we believe, has   been a key driver of the significant increase in our   Net Promoter Score. In the first 10 months of the   new recruitment website, over 17,000 completed   applications were received and over 1,700 candidates   were hired.   In line with our growth, I am particularly delighted   this year to see an increasing number of internal   promotions, both to general manager within our   pubs and also into head office positions. Having   the right people in the right places is the key to   a successful business. Nowhere is this personified   better than in Gerry O’Brien who has been the   manager of The Churchill Arms in Kensington   for 30 years. We were delighted this year when   he was nominated for a Tourism Superstar Award   by the  Daily Mirror .
Our acquisition of a 51% stake in The Stable in June   2014 was a new direction for Fuller’s, although one   that had much in common with our vision and   ethos. The Stable is a craft cider and gourmet   pizza business, based in the South West of England.  It had, at the time of our investment, six sites and   we opened one more during the year – in Falmouth.   In addition, we have opened a site in Plymouth,   right on the Barbican waterfront, since the year end.   While the concept appeals to a younger, more   female demographic than our traditional estate,   the commitment to quality, fresh ingredients and   local produce is synonymous with our existing   business. We have already helped to grow this   brand by adding depth to the head office support   team and using our property expertise to identify   new sites. We now have agreed or completed   deals on six sites in Winchester, Whitechapel,   Southampton, Cardiff, Exeter and Cheltenham,   as well as moving from our existing location to   a larger and more prominent site in Bath.
We believe The Stable is a logical step in Fuller’s   evolution, following on from our acquisition of   Cornish Orchards. The brand broadens our appeal  and exposure to growing parts of the market in a   way that is totally aligned to our commitment to   authenticity  and  quality.  It  is  also  a  fitting  showcase  for the Cornish Orchards’ brands and for Fuller’s   brands such as Frontier Craft Lager. There has   been some considerable up front investment but   the potential for The Stable to deliver good   returns  in the future offers a great opportunity.   Tenanted Inns
It has been a fantastic year for our Tenanted Inns   business with like for like profits rising by 5% and   total profits rising by 2% to £12.6 million (2014:   £12.3 million). Average EBITDA per pub has also   risen by 5%, with total EBITDA increasing by 2%   to £14.2 million (2014: £13.9 million). Three pubs,   The Duke of York in Tunbridge Wells, The Bear &   Ragged Staff in Romsey and Grand Central in   Brighton, have been transferred to the managed   estate and two pubs have been sold.   It has been a turbulent time for many tenanted   businesses and, although we are well below the   500  pub  threshold  for  Market  Only  Rent  to  become  a reality, we will be watching the changes to the   market place with interest. In the meantime,   we continue to focus on building a strong and   supportive partnership with our tenants and this is   reflected in the fact that almost 90% of our estate   is on a substantive agreement and over 80% of   tenants are signed up for our service charge   package, which provides a number of services   including health and safety workplace assessments,   chimney flue maintenance and fire risk assessments.   Exports
Asia Pacific  17.0%
Africa  0. 3%
North America  21.9%
South America   7.3%
Europe  50.1%  Middle East  3.4%
12  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ My fish, your beer –  
the perfect combination. ’
Cookie 
 Severn & Wye Smokery
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  13
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Chief Executive’s Review continued
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Bringing the world of wine 
to your local pub. ’
Pippa Penny 
Wine Development Manager
14  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Pippa Penny, Wine Development Manager
Pippa started at Fuller’s in 2010 when she joined the 
team at The Vintry, a pub with an extensive list of 160 
wines, as deputy manager. She has now progressed 
her love of grape by taking a head office role, 
bringing great wines to all our Managed Pubs. One of 
Pippa’s favourites is the Les Cents Verres Grenache 
Rosé – available Only at Fuller’s.
Fuller’s Organic Honey Dew – the   UK’s number one selling Organic Beer   – has been given a more modern look,   with lighter colours to convey natural   ingredients, and the golden ale   description more visible to appeal   to a wider audience.
As with any business, the key to success is attracting   and retaining the right tenants. To provide better   support to new tenants, we have changed the way   we operate so our recruiter also manages the   tenant relationship for the first six months to add   some continuity to the process. New tenants are   given a tenant mentor to help answer any questions   and our ever-improving extranet provides helpful   services such as menu templates and wine list   planning. We also offer a free WiFi service to   our Tenanted Inns and 92% of our tenants take   advantage of this service.
We provide full training and tenants have to   undertake a number of courses within the first six   months. Two thirds of the cost of this is returned   to the tenants, so long as they complete the   courses in the suggested timescale. Well trained   tenants run more successful businesses,   completing a virtuous circle.
Other tenant benefits that have recently been   introduced include an improved website service   for their own pub websites and, following the duty   cuts on alcohol in the last budget, we immediately   passed all these duty savings on in full. Our new   beers are proving popular with our tenants and   provide yet another point of difference for their pubs.
In addition, by investing in our tenanted business   through our capital expenditure programme during   the recession, our tenants are better placed to build   trade in a stronger economy and it is this joint   commitment to building successful, sustainable   businesses that has resulted in a good financial   return for both the Company and the tenant.   The Fuller’s Beer Company
The Fuller’s Beer Company has also had a good   year with total beer and cider volumes up 4%   and revenue up by 6% to £122.9 million (2014:   £115.8 million). Operating profit grew 2% to   £8.7 million (2014: £8.5 million), after increased   marketing costs of £0.4 million. Sales are up across   all channels and London Pride has seen volume   grow by 1% against a cask ale market decline of 4%.   We have also won several awards, increased sales   across our product range, rebranded two of our   popular beers and launched Oliver’s Island, an exciting   new golden ale.   The London Pride  Made of London  advertising   campaign entered phase four during the year,   which included a very successful media promotion  with the  Evening Standard . The package involved   a series of intimate events with celebrities such as   Blur bassist Alex James, rugby legend Jason Leonard   and DJ Jo Whiley, with tickets available only   through the  Evening Standard . The events were   a resounding success and it was supported with   a series of features on ordinary Londoners who   bring style, interest and dedication to our Capital.   This activity was supported by a poster campaign   across London and on tube platforms with iconic   photography and social media support such as   #DropOfPride and #EmptyPint. The first of these   encourages offices and companies to put themselves   forward for a delivery of London Pride on the last   Friday of every month. Recipients have comprised   a variety of businesses including the set of   Downton  Abbey. The #EmptyPint promotion was a   short  term Twitter promotion where drinkers who   tweeted a photo of their empty pint glass,   immediately received a code to get a free pint. It   was our most successful digital campaign to date   and gained over five million impressions and a   redemption rate of 54%.   We were delighted when the  Made of London   campaign was recognised at the inaugural Beer   Marketing Awards. It picked up the prize for Best   Media Campaign – Print as well as the Grand Prix   Award for the best overall marketing campaign,   garnering high praise from the judges in the process.   Our other beer brands have also fared well.   Organic Honey Dew is the number one organic   ale in both on and off trade markets and we have   given  it  a  more up to date look and livery, with new   glassware, to enhance its organic credentials.   Seafarers continues to sell well and over £37,000   was raised during the year for the Seafarers charity   through sales of this beer. Frontier also performed   well,  with sales and distribution increasing and the   brand continues to be a firm favourite at numerous   food and music events, as well as festivals in general,   bringing Fuller’s beer to a younger market. Frontier   is now our second biggest brand in the UK.
Cornish Orchards has seen cider sales rise during   the year with increased distribution through new   trading channels in the on and off trades. The   investments we have made in additional capacity   are now on stream and our ciders are picking up   awards including a gold medal for Cornish Gold   at the International Cider Awards.   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  15
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview  (’000) Brls
2015 348.4
2014 334.1
2013 332.1
 £m
2015 56.9
2014 38.1
2013 31.1
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Fuller’s brand new Golden Ale, Oliver’s   Island, is a harmony of citrus, floral hops   and golden malt. Drawing inspiration   from a local landmark less than three   miles from the brewery, it was launched   at the opening of the Blue Boat on   Fulham Reach in March 2015 and is   already proving popular.
Joe Clarke, The Sun, Richmond
Joe, and wife Margy, have been the tenants at 
The Sun for 30 years and over those years the pub 
has become synonymous with rugby. No trip to 
Twickenham is complete without a pint or two in 
The Sun. Jason Leonard even donated his first ever 
professional pay cheque to adorn the pub’s walls. 
Margy’s BBQs, served in the pub’s exceptional beer 
garden, are just as legendary and help satisfy the 
appetites of the rugby fraternity.
The integration of Sierra Nevada has also proved   successful and sales are rising. The creation   of Westside Drinks as a stand-alone business,   supported by Fuller’s, to sell Frontier and our   agency brands to a very vibrant end of the market   is proving successful and we are looking forward   to developing this further. In addition, our wine   business has also benefited from the long term   trend of better quality food in pubs and our free   trade wine sales have grown during the year.   Finally, we also launched a new golden ale –   Oliver’s Island. Named after an island in the   Thames close to our Chiswick Brewery, Oliver’s   Island has had a very good initial reception and is   selling better than our most optimistic forecast.   Oliver’s Island is brewed with golden malt, orange   peel and floral and citrus hops, and is supported   with eye-catching branding and bespoke glassware.   Final Salary Scheme
We closed our final salary pension scheme to new   members in August 2005. During the year, the   Company concluded a period of consultation   with the Trustees and Members of that scheme.   As a result, the scheme closed to future accrual   with effect from 1 January 2015. The closure   resulted in a one-off curtailment gain of £1.2 million  in the year, which has been recognised as an   exceptional item.   Current Trading and Prospects
The new financial year has got off to a good start   with solid sales for the nine weeks to 30 May 2015.   Like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and Hotels   have risen by 5.5% and like for like profits in our   Tenanted Inns have risen by 2%. Beer and cider   volumes have decreased by 2%.
Since the year end, we have purchased The King’s   Head in Earl’s Court Village and opened a new site   for The Stable on the waterfront in Plymouth. We   are looking forward to opening another riverside   pub, The Sail Loft on Greenwich Reach, later this   year and we have plans to open at least another   four sites for The Stable.   We have launched phase five of the  Made of   London campaign for London Pride and used our   passion for quality and the brewers daily tasting of   London Pride at 12 noon to launch #Tweetat12.   This latest social media promotion offered our   fans a chance to tweet between 12.00 and 12.12 to   receive a pint of London Pride with our compliments.   We have taken on new companies, new brands   and new ideas over the last two years and while   they have all started well, the best is yet to come.   We are looking forward to completing the   integration of these new businesses and building   for our future. We will also continue to invest   heavily in our existing pub estate and develop   our range of brands.
We have a successful business model, interesting   fledgling opportunities, a first class, predominately   freehold estate, a team with passion and ability   and a very healthy balance sheet. This gives me   confidence that we will continue to deliver strong   results for our customers, our employees and   our shareholders.
Simon Emeny 
Chief Executive
4 June 2015
Beer Company total beer & cider barrels
348,400+4%
Capital expenditure
£56.9m+49%
16  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
‘Beer, BBQs and boisterous rugby boys. ’
Joe Clarke 
The Sun, Richmond
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  17
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Financial Review
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘Investing for the long term. ’
James Douglas 
Finance Director
18  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Our operating profits before exceptional items grew  
by 6% and EBITDA increased by 8%. Year end net debt was 
£162.6 million and the pro forma net debt ratio was 2.7 times.
Our Operating Results
We have grown revenue by 12% on the prior year   with the majority of the growth driven by strong   like for like trading within the Managed and   Tenanted estate. Our operating profits before   exceptional items grew by 6% to £42.3 million   (2014: £39.9 million), with the largest contribution   to growth again coming from the Managed Pubs   and Hotels division. Total EBITDA increased by 8%   to £58.7 million (2014: £54.5 million).
Finance Costs
Despite our net debt level increasing significantly   to £162.6 million (2014: £139.8 million), our net   finance costs before exceptional items increased   only marginally from £5.8 million to £5.9 million.   This is a result of the terms of our new bank loan   facilities and the impact of continuing historical   low interest rates allowing us to achieve low   interest rates on our variable rate debt, and   includes £0.2 million of arrangement fees on the   previous facilities that were written off in the year.   Further details of the new arrangements are   included below. The net interest expense on our   defined  benefit pension scheme is shown as an   exceptional item as the charge is driven by market   conditions and is not associated with our underlying   trading. Our blended cost of borrowings has   decreased to 2.9% due to low rates on the variable   rate portion of our debt. We expect this blended   rate of interest to increase marginally in the coming   year as interest rates begin to rise and we continue   to pay down our cheaper variable rate borrowing.
Exceptional Items
Net exceptional costs before tax of £0.3 million   comprised £0.8 million profit on property disposals,   £1.2 million relating to the pension fund curtailment   gain offset by £1.2 million of acquisition costs   expensed, £0.3 million of onerous lease charges   and a net interest charge on our pension deficit   of £0.8 million. The curtailment gain relates to the   January 2015 closure in of the defined benefit   pension plan to future accrual. This is a one-off   reduction in the year end pension deficit. After   exceptional items, profit before tax was therefore   £36.1 million (2014: £33.5 million).   Tax
A full analysis of the tax charge for the year is set out   in note 7 to the financial statements. Tax has been   provided for at an effective rate of 21.7% (2014:   23.2%) on adjusted profits. The overall effective tax   rate of 21.6% benefits from non-taxable   exceptional items. The prior year effective tax rate   of 13.1% was impacted by the deferred tax credit of   £3.4 million relating to the stepped reduction in   the UK corporation tax rate from 23% down to 21%   from 1 April 2014, and from 21% to 20% on 1 April 2015.
Pensions
The deficit on the defined benefit pension   scheme increased by £7.2 million to £24.4 million   (2014: £17.2 million). This was principally driven by   the assumed discount rate applied to the long   term liability decreasing from 4.45% to 3.25%,   resulting in an increase in the calculated present   value of pension obligations from £110.8 million to   £127.9 million. This was partly offset by a greater   than expected return on the plans assets, resulting   in an increase in the fair value from £93.6 million   to £103.5 million. Deficit recovery payments of   £0.8 million were made during the year.   Shareholders’ Return
Adjusted earnings per share was 10% higher than   last year at 51.51p (2014: 46.94p). The proposed   final dividend of 10.20p per 40p ‘A’ ordinary share,   together with the interim dividend of 6.40p per   share already paid makes a total of 16.60p and   compares with a total dividend of 15.10p last year.   The total dividend per share has grown by 10%   and will be covered 3.1 times by adjusted earnings   per share (2014: 3.1 times). Shareholders’ equity at   the year end was £284.8 million.
During the period 291,500 ‘A’ ordinary 40p   shares and 3,558,009 ‘B’ ordinary 4p shares were   repurchased into treasury for a total of £6.2 million   (2014: 445,819 ‘A’ ordinary shares for £4.2 million).   In addition 72,500 ‘A’ ordinary 40p shares and   248,089 ‘B’ ordinary 4p shares were purchased   for £0.9 million by or on behalf of the Trustees   of the Share Incentive Plan and the LTIP Trustees   to cover future issuance (2014: 69,000 ‘A’ shares,   414,854 ‘B’ shares and 5,000 ‘C’ shares for   £1.1 million). The average price paid was 959.5p   per ‘A’ ordinary 40p share. The middle-market   quotation of the Company’s ordinary shares   at  the  end  of  the financial year was 1,020p. The   highest  price  during the year was 1,035.0p, while   the lowest was 882.5p. The Company’s market   capitalisation at 28 March 2015 was £ 569.4 million   (2014:  £507.9  million).
The Vintry picked up the  Imbibe 2015 Short Wine   List of the Year   award. The list features 30 of the   pub’s vast range, which totals 160 on the full wine list.   This commitment to great wines for our managed   and tenanted pubs is supported by a specialist in   house wine team.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  19
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Financial Review continued
Cash available for discretionary spend was   £47.7 million (2014: £46.1 million). The increase was   largely due to increased EBITDA and positive   movements in working capital, mainly due to the   timing of payments around the year end. Group   net debt increased from £139.8 million at the   start of the year to £162.6 million as a result of   acquisitions and the continued investment in our   existing estate. Our capital spending increased to   £56.3 million (2014: £38.1 million). This included   the acquisition of The Stable (including £0.6   million of assumed debts) and adding eight new   pubs to our estate (exclusive of acquisition fees   and stamp duty) – London’s Pride at Heathrow   Terminal 2, The Blue Boat, Fulham Reach;   The Windmill, Portishead; The Harp, Covent   Garden; The Cromwell Arms, Romsey; The   Three Guineas, Reading; The Bull Hotel,   Bridport and One Over The   Ait,  Kew  Bridge.  We  have  invested significantly in the refurbishment   of  our existing estate – The George IV, Chiswick; The   Duke of York and The Admiralty, Trafalgar Square.
Asset disposals raised a total of £3.3 million and   we recorded an exceptional gain on disposal of   £0.8 million which was largely attributable to the   disposal of a single property. EBITDA increased   by 8% to £58.7 million (2014: £54.5 million). The   increased capital spend was financed through the   incremental EBITDA and drawing on our new   bank facilities. This has resulted in the pro forma   net debt ratio increasing slightly to 2.7 times   (2014: 2.5 times). This level of debt allows us   continued flexibility to invest in future opportunities   as they arise.   Cash Flow
Cash flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
EBITDA 58.7 54.5
Interest (5.2) (5.3)
Tax (8.3) (8.0)
Working capital and other 2.5 4.9
Cash available for discretionary spend 47.7 46.1
Capital expenditure on estate (23.0) (16.4)
Acquisitions* (27.3) (17.6)
Pub development (6.0) (4.1)
Acquisition costs and other exceptional items paid (1.7) (2.1)
Property disposals 3.3 2.6
Dividends and share transactions (14.9) (11.8)
Cash flow (21.9) (3.3)
Non cash movement (0.9) (0.9)
Net debt movement (22.8) (4.2)
*      Includes acquired debt on acquisition of The Stable and purchase of freeholds. In the prior year, this included acquired debt on   the acquisition of Cornish Orchards Limited.
Sources of Finance
Sources of finance
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank debt 140.0 116.2
Other debt 27.7 27.7
Cash (5.1) (4.1)
Total net debt 162.6 139.8
Available committed facilities 59.0 33.5
% total borrowings fixed/hedged 75% 78%
Net debt/EBITDA 2.7x 2.5x
to continue to borrow a portion of our bank debt   at a fixed interest rate until 2022. The Group’s   financing is a mix of bank debt, debentures,   cumulative preference shares, overdraft, cash and   short term deposits as disclosed in notes 22, 24   and 26. Other financial assets and liabilities such   as trade receivables and payables arise through   the Group’s operating activities. The Group does   not trade in financial instruments. The Group is   able to operate with negative working capital –   trade and other payables were £20.9 million   greater than the aggregate of inventories and   trade and other receivables at the year end   (2014: £17.2 million greater).
Financial Risks and Treasury Policies
The Group Treasury Team consists of the Finance   Director and the Group Financial Controller.   The objectives of the Treasury Team are to   manage the Group’s financial risk; to secure cost   effective funding for the Group’s operations; and   to minimise the adverse effects of fluctuations in   the financial markets on the value of the Group’s   financial assets and liabilities, on reported   profitability and on the cash flows of the Group.   The Group Treasury Team monitors the overall   level of financial gearing weekly, with our short   and medium term forecasts showing underlying   levels of gearing which remain within our targets.
Going Concern Statement
The financial position of the Group including the   various sources of finance available and its cash   flows have been described herein. In addition,   note 26 to the financial statements includes   detailed disclosure on the Group’s objectives,   policies and processes for managing its capital;   its financial risk management objectives; details   of its financial instruments and hedging activities;   and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.   The Group is vertically integrated, is diversified   across a wide range of sales channels and is strongly   cash generative. We have performed well throughout   the  recent  economic  cycles.  Our  financial  position  is strong as we have always borrowed prudently.   We had approximately £59.0 million of undrawn   bank facilities in place at the year end which is   considered more than sufficient to meet cash   flow requirements over the coming 12 months.   On the basis of current financial projections   and having considered the facilities available,   the Directors are confident that the Group and   Company have adequate resources to continue   in operational  existence  for  the  foreseeable  future.   Accordingly, the Directors consider that it is   appropriate to continue to adopt the going   concern basis of accounting in preparing the   financial statements.
James Douglas 
Finance Director
4 June 2015
During the year, the Group successfully arranged   new £180.0 million bank loan facilities and a further   £20.0 million one-year fixed term loan. The new   £180.0 million facilities have a five-year term   expiring in August 2019, have no amortisation   requirements and provide £30.0 million of   additional funding over and above the former   arrangements which expired in May 2015.
£105.0 million of our borrowings are hedged   of which £65.0 million is swapped at a blended   interest rate of 1.8% (excluding bank margin) and   £20.0 million is subject to a cap of 4.0%. This cap   expires in August 2015. In December 2014 we   entered into a further interest rate cap arrangement   for £20.0 million at 2.1% from 2015 to 2020. The   interest rate swap agreement in place will allow us    20  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Ensuring that every  
customer leaves happy. ’
Bernard Kulwazi 
The Hereford Arms, South Kensington
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  21
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Principal Risks and Uncertainties
In the course of its normal business, the Group   continually assesses and takes action to mitigate   the various risks encountered that could impact   the achievement of its objectives. As detailed in the   Corporate Governance Report, there are systems   and processes in place to enable the Board to   monitor and control the Group’s management   of risk. The Audit Committee regularly reviews   the effectiveness of this process and seeks to   ensure that management’s response is adapted   appropriately to the changing environment.
The following sets out what the Board considers   to be the principal risks which affect the Group   at present, although it is not intended to be a   comprehensive analysis of all the risks that the   business may face. In addition, the key financial   risks to the Group are detailed in note 26c to the   financial statements.
Risk Mitigation and Monitoring
Regulatory Risks
Fuller’s operates in a highly regulated sector where government legislation   controls much of the way we do business and therefore the business model.   Any significant changes in policy could lead to a sudden change or the long   term decline of the business. The two key areas of consideration are the   regulation of the sale of alcohol and the Beer Tie.
We carefully monitor legislative developments and review sales trends and   consumer habits to gauge the impact on our business.
We participate in industry initiatives aimed at the responsible promotion   and retailing of alcohol.   We have diversified our offering to include soft drinks, coffee, food and   accommodation to reduce our reliance on alcohol based revenue.
We continue to monitor ongoing dialogue between the government   and industry bodies. Our directors are members of key industry bodies   and committees.
The industry maintains a voluntary code of practice with tenants, which   is regularly reviewed and updated in consultation with numerous pub   companies and industry groups. Fuller’s operates an internal code of   practice that is more rigorous than the current industry code to ensure   the transparency and openness of our Tied agreements. We also provide   marketing, training and promotional support to help tenants run profitable   and long term businesses.
Enforced changes to our tied arrangements by the Government would   necessitate changes to our business model, with higher property rents   and lower prices for the supply of drinks being charged.   Health and Safety
The health and safety of the Group’s employees and customers is a key   concern to us. We are required to comply with health and safety legislation,   including fire safety and food hygiene. Operating a large number of houses   and sites increases the complexity of ensuring the highest health and safety   standards are adhered to at all times.
A Health and Safety Committee oversees the operation of the Group’s   health and safety policies and procedures, and regularly updates its policies   and training programme to ensure all risks are identified and properly assessed   and that relevant regulation is adhered to. We report and investigate all   accidents and near misses.   In  our  Managed  Pubs  and  Hotels  we  have  automatic  fire  suppression  systems  in most of our kitchens to reduce fire risk.   All staff receive food hygiene training as standard and regular kitchen   audits/checks ensure they comply with the standards expected from them.   Quality assurance checks on our core suppliers ensure hygiene standards   have been adhered to before produce even reaches our kitchens.
Loss of premium position
The Group operates in a premium market for both Fuller’s Inns and   The Fuller’s Beer Company. This positioning is key to the success of the   business and the achievement of the Group’s strategic goals. The loss of   the position would have a significant impact on the Group’s business   model and financial performance.
This strategy has been agreed by the Board and communicated to key   senior staff in the Company. In addition the Executive Committee approves   all significant new product development and acquisition decisions and   therefore controls key changes to the Group.
There is a customer complaints system to track and monitor the perception   of our products and houses in the market place to ensure we are meeting   our premium position.
22  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Risk Mitigation and Monitoring
Griffin Brewery Site
The Group’s headquarters and sole brewing facility are based at the Griffin   Brewery site in Chiswick. A disaster at this site would seriously disrupt   operations which would impact on the profitability of the Company.
We take various measures to mitigate the impact of such an event. We continually   monitor fire safety and invest in capital projects to reduce the risk of failure.
We store recipes and yeast off-site and have informal arrangements in place   to use alternative facilities.
Brands and Reputation
Fuller’s has a wide portfolio of brands and has established an excellent   reputation in the market. Principally, there is a risk that the Group’s beer and   food offerings could become contaminated at source or outlet, which could   damage the reputation of the brand and deter customers.
The Group reduces product contamination risks to an acceptable level by   ensuring that the business is operated to the highest standards by maintaining   long term relationships with suppliers and by significant investment in   security, quality control and cleaning. The Group has in place product recall   procedures together with insurance coverage in the event of contamination.   In addition, the Group runs an active and continuous training programme   covering all aspects of the pub operations and provides its pubs with on-site   technical support.
Information Technology
The Group is increasingly reliant on its information systems to operate on   a daily basis and trading would be affected by any significant or prolonged   failure of these systems.
The data held by the Group is a key business asset and personal data   protection is key. Any significant loss of data could lead to a considerable   interruption for the business and fines.
To minimise this risk the IT function has a range of facilities and controls   in place to ensure that in the event of an issue normal operation would be   restored quickly. These include a formal Disaster Recovery Plan, on-line   replication of systems and data to a third party recovery facility and external   support for hardware and software.
The IT systems in place follow appropriate date protection guidelines to ensure   the risk of both personal and Company data loss is at an acceptable level.
Loss of Key Management and Staff
The Group have a number of key staff who are critical to its success and   therefore there is a risk that if a number of these individuals were to leave   at the same time it may risk the delivery of the Group’s strategy.
The Group performs detailed succession planning to ensure that key   roles are considered to ensure appropriate cover is available. In addition   the remuneration policy is set up to ensure the key members of staff   are appropriately remunerated so they are not attracted to other   competitor  businesses.
Loss of Company Values or a Failure to Adhere to Them
 Fuller’s is a company based on a strong set of values which are key to its   success and future. Should these be undermined or not adhered to, the   Company’s unique position and long term future would be jeopardised.
The Company has a unique culture due to its share structure and history   which ensures business decisions are taken for the long term benefit of   the Company.   This culture also promotes a long term and collaborative approach that   does not lead to excessive risk taking.
The share structure of the Company and Family shareholder representation   on the Board and involvement in the Company’s management ensure the   values are maintained and followed. Disruptive and short-term third parties   cannot easily gain significant holdings and influence.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  23
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Corporate Social Responsibility
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘Being inspired by the best. ’
Dave Evans 
Trainee Brewer
24  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Dave Evans, Trainee Brewer
Just over four years ago, Dave was in a job with limited 
opportunities for promotion – and he was a dedicated 
lager drinker. Luckily, he regularly played football 
with one of the managers at the Griffin Brewery, 
who suggested a job in brewing. Dave’s not looked 
back since. He’s now got a whole new career and his 
taste buds are celebrating too.
Frontier has been gaining new fans on   the summer festival circuit and is now   our second biggest brand in the UK.
Doing things the right way is a key value at Fuller’s and,  
to that end, good corporate social responsibility has always 
been a part of our culture.
We have a strong commitment to our people and   we celebrate the individuality of our pubs and the   way they involve themselves in their immediate   neighbourhoods. We are very aware of the   environmental impact of our business and work   both internally and with our suppliers to mitigate   this where possible. Finally, as a Company with a   long history, we have a duty to protect the   heritage of which we are the custodians.   Community
Pubs are the heart of community fundraising –  and  Fuller’s pubs are no exception. We have two main   charities that are beneficiaries of our day to day   activities – Seafarers and Shooting Star Chase.   The Seafarers charity continues to benefit from   sales of Gales Seafarer, a beer we have brewed   since our acquisition of Gales in 2005. We donate   £5 per barrel to the charity, which uses it to benefit   all those with a link to the sea and sailing. Last year   we raised over £32,000 from sales of this beer   and it has just had a makeover with a new look   pump clip and glassware, so we hope to see this   amount rise further in the coming 12 months.
Our other main charity is Shooting Star Chase.   This is a children’s hospice charity that cares for   over 600 families living in West London, Surrey   and West Sussex. For every children’s meal we sell   in 93 of our managed pubs, we donate 30p to the   charity and this year we have donated just under   £35,000. In addition, we support the charity with   events for its fundraisers and with other events   during the year.   Some of our pubs got behind activities to raise   awareness about ways to help customers with   Parkinson’s. Everyday activities can become a real   trial for people affected by the condition and   around 50 staff members across three pubs took   part in an awareness session to understand the   symptoms and how they could adapt their service   to make these guests more comfortable. The   session was well received and it is an area we will   be looking at further.   It’s not just our pubs that are excellent at supporting   good causes though. The Brewery continues to   support a range of local charities in Chiswick and   Horndean as well as other organisations across a   wide range of activities such as medical charities,   historic buildings and charities for those affected   by alcohol. Fuller’s is also continuing its support for   the Hammer Cancer Walk – a 10 km walk to raise   money for the cancer care unit at Hammersmith   Hospital. Long term support is a key element of   our community activities – we have supported   the Hammer Cancer walk for 19 years, raising over   £1 million, and our support for the Surrey Cricket   League and the Head of the River IVs rowing   event has been continuous in both cases for over   two decades.   We also supply hundreds of brewery tour vouchers   each year for school fetes and other fundraising   events. We have continued to provide a regular   donation of free beer to the Hospital of St Cross   almshouse and we provide sponsorship to ensure   the continuation of a number of running races,   carnivals and local activities. Finally, we reinstated   the popular Pride and Passion Open Day in 2014   when we throw open our doors to local residents   and visitors. It proved very successful and we will   be repeating the event on 5 September 2015.   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  25
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview  
 
 
Board of Directors
Male 9
Female 1
 
 
 
Senior Managers
Male 40
Female 23
 
 
 
All employees
Male 2,483
Female 1,874
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
Sylvia La Porte, Corporate Relationship Manager, 
Shooting Star Chase
Fuller’s has been working with Shooting Star Chase 
for three years, helping to raise money for children 
with life-limiting conditions. This amazing charity 
provides bespoke support, free of charge, to families 
from diagnosis to end of life and throughout 
bereavement. It’s locally based and last year Fuller’s 
donated just under £35,000.
Responsible Retailing
Fuller’s has always believed that a well-run pub is   the home of responsible drinking and we are   clearly seeing that the purpose of visiting a Fuller’s   pub is as likely to be for food or a coffee as it is for   an alcoholic drink. We are signatories to the   Government’s  Responsibility Deal  and regularly   update on progress to our commitments.
We do take our role as a retailer of alcohol seriously  and we are active members of the British Beer   and Pub Association and the British Institute of   Innkeeping. Fuller’s is also a supporter of Drinkaware   – the government sponsored trust that aims to   promote responsible drinking and help reduce   alcohol misuse and alcohol-related harm.
Across the Company, we have invested heavily in   training – and our bar staff training includes details   of initiatives such as the Challenge 21 scheme   to prevent underage drinking and, of course, how   to politely refuse those who have had too much to   drink. These measures are audited throughout the   year via unannounced test purchases.   This year also saw the arrival of allergen labelling   and we have introduced a very thorough set of   procedures, processes and training to ensure   we are providing the correct information for   customers. We have worked with our suppliers   and our Star Chef system, which includes a menu   database, to give our chefs a safe and simple way   of ensuring that we know the allergens for any   new dishes and combinations. We also have an   environmental health consultancy on a retained   basis so we can immediately and thoroughly   investigate any allegations of food poisoning and   take corrective action swiftly if necessary.
People
Being part of the family underpins much of the   way we work at Fuller’s and it is evident throughout   the business. Many employees stay with Fuller’s   for much of their working life as demonstrated   every year by the numerous recipients of our   long service awards.   To meet our strategic aims, we require a highly   motivated and talented workforce, who are fully   engaged and share our passion for quality and   customer service. The training and development   of our people is paramount. We launched our   Graduate  Programmes in 2011 and these have   gone from strength to strength. Increasingly,     Fuller’s is being viewed as a place for talented   graduates to develop into the leaders of the future   and our 2015 programmes attracted over 1,000   applications. We are now reaping the benefits of   these programmes. The 2011 and 2012 graduate   intakes are now working in their first or second   substantive roles within our marketing, sales and   operations teams.
Fuller’s other development programmes support   a career journey from apprenticeship to general   management. In September we launch our   Learning to Lead  programme, which aims to turn   the best team members into supervisors.
26  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Helping improve the lives of children 
with life - limiting conditions. ’
Sylvia La Porte 
Corporate Relationship Manager, Shooting Star Chase
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  27
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Corporate Social Responsibility continued
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ The freedom to express  
my love of food. ’
Gavin Sinden 
The Castle, Harrow
28  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Gavin Sinden, The Castle, Harrow
Gavin’s love of cooking is inspired by his nan. After 
working in two Michelin-starred establishments 
on the South Coast, Gavin joined Fuller’s at the 
Wykeham Arms in Winchester – a pub with a very 
good food reputation. He’s now bought his passion 
and skill to the London suburbs and has taken up 
residency at the Castle in Harrow. With this talent, 
it won’t be long before the pub is more famous than 
the school.
Our general manager development programme   continues to grow the best assistant managers   into new leaders for our pub estate. Around 50%   of the general managers in our managed pub   estate are now home grown. Our three chef   scholarships, which will develop talented chefs   from commis chef to head chef positions, are also   going from strength to strength, with numbers   developed due to double in May 2015. This has   also inspired many of those who join as kitchen   porters to develop their skills further and we will   nurture this desire wherever possible. Our Service   Coach network is also building momentum with   over 100 Lead Service and Service Coaches   working throughout our business, championing   service at house level.   We are committed to developing our home-
grown talent and providing structured career   paths for our most talented people. The numbers   who have completed, or are progressing on, a   development programme is now in the hundreds   and we intend to grow this further. Fuller’s has also   raised the training bar with significant investment   in a programme for the sales team and a full   training calendar now in place for managers   throughout the head office and brewery function.
We value loyalty very highly and offer a range of   benefits to encourage employees to take a stake   in the Company’s long-term success, such as the   Save As You Earn  scheme and  Share Incentive   Plan. We also endeavour to recognise great   efforts with the 100 club, a select group of team   members in our pubs and hotels who have   exceeded our customer service expectations,   and through the use of  Caught in the Act  scratch   cards to provide an instant award to team   members who are exhibiting any one of our   Five Golden Rules  of service.
Environment
A commitment to reducing energy consumption   is a key philosophy for Fuller’s and we continue to   explore new and improving technologies to achieve   this. Through weekly consumption reports,   guidance on energy saving, reward incentives,   a competitive element and operational visibility,   we continue to reduce electricity consumption,   with usage down by 3% and gas consumption   down 6% on average in participating pubs.
We continue to roll-out LED lighting and are   seeing significant energy and carbon savings,   combined with benefits due to managers   spending less time changing bulbs.
We have also continued to convert houses   to waterless urinals whenever toilet areas are   refurbished and food waste recycling has been   implemented in every house where there is   space for additional bins.
Within the Brewery, we have been working   on auto-dimming lighting around the site and   we are looking at a further effluent reduction   project. A recent audit carried out by our trade   association, the British Beer and Pub Association,   reported that we were on top of our energy   management – but there is still more to be done.   We also continue to ensure that the by-products   of brewing are reused, wherever possible, in   particular for the production of Marmite or as   animal feed.
We are fulfilling our Energy Savings Opportunity   Scheme (“ESOS”)commitment, reporting   regularly on our energy consumption across   the business. Through working with our ESOS   consultants, we will continue to identify   opportunities to make further energy savings   and further reduce our carbon footprint.   Suppliers
It is no longer enough to examine the social   impact of our own business – we have to consider   that of our suppliers too and we execute our   responsibility by ensuring the products we source   are sustainable and, where possible, local.
We look to build long-term relationships. It is our   belief that this stability allows our suppliers to   sensibly invest in and protect their businesses.   For example, we have contracts with our hop and   barley farmers both to secure our own supply and   to give the farmers the confidence to invest in the   future. In addition, we consider the human rights,   health and safety and other ethical measures  of  our suppliers when making our buying decisions.   All suppliers are required to provide us with a   copy of their Corporate and Social Responsibility   policy and we look for those with similar values   to our own.   Carbon reporting
Fuel type
52 weeks
ended
28 March 2015
CO
2
 tonnes
Electricity and gas 29,504
Petrol and diesel 1,189
Total 30,693
CO
2
 emissions per  
£100,000 of turnover 9.6
Fuel type
52 weeks
ended
29 March 2014
CO
2
 tonnes
Electricity and gas 27,493
Petrol and diesel 1,126
Total 28,619
CO
2
 emissions per  
£100,000 of turnover 9.9
The greenhouse gas intensity ratio for each year   is calculated by dividing our total CO 2   emissions  (in metric tonnes) by our annual turnover (in  £100,000s). Our total CO 2  emissions are derived  from the electricity and gas consumption of both   our Managed pub estate and the Griffin Brewery   plus emissions from all company vehicles,   including  company cars.  Vehicle emissions are calculated   from the data gathered by our fuelcard   supplier.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  29
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Corporate Social Responsibility continued
It’s been a great year for our Bottle   Conditioned beers – 1845, 2014 Vintage   Ale and Bengal Lancer took the Gold,   Silver & Bronze sweep at the CAMRA   London & South East Beer of Britain   Awards for bottled conditioned beer.
Dave Hay, Manager, The Red Lion, Whitehall
When we refurbished the Red Lion in Whitehall, 
Dave Hay took on a pub that really is at the heart of 
politics. Local resident George Osborne came and 
cut the opening ribbon for us and the pub even has 
its own Division Bell. When the bell rings, the MPs 
put down their pints and pies and rush back to the 
House to vote on matters of state. Like all Dave’s 
customers though – they soon come back.
Wherever possible, our menus will reflect the   seasonality of local produce and we try to buy   British. All our chips are from British Farmers and   our fresh meat is sourced from within the UK   through trusted butchers with a fully traceable   supply chain. Our eggs meet Lion Quality   standards and again all come from British farms.   We have also just signed up as member of the   Sustainable Seafood Coalition.
We continue to source only Fair Trade coffee and   we support UK food initiatives such as the New   Forest Marque and Hampshire Fare.
As we become a bigger player on the global stage,   we have tried to ensure that we have sensible   supplier arrangements in place. To this end, we   have a keg arrangement with Sierra Nevada in   the US, for which we are the UK importer. This   arrangement avoids the transportation of empty   kegs by ensuring that we use the same kegs that   take Chiswick-brewed Fuller’s beers to the US   to bring US-brewed Sierra Nevada back across   the Atlantic.
Heritage
As we celebrate our 170th year, our heritage really   is top of our minds. We are now the oldest brewer   in London and we carry the weight of this history   with pride. We continue to invest in the fabric of   our historic building and we still support many   other organisations that form part of that rich   history – for instance Chiswick House, Hogarth’s   House and St Nicholas’ Church, which is adjacent   to the Brewery and was rebuilt by our founding   father Henry Smith in the late 1800s.   Our wisteria – the oldest in the country – still   attracts many visitors when it blossoms in April   and, although a much more recent addition to   the Chiswick landscape, we have been actively   involved in supporting a replanting programme   on the Hogarth Roundabout in front of the   Brewery site.   During the year, we have also been fortunate   enough to take on some fantastic heritage pubs   including The Harp in Covent Garden and the   Admiralty on Trafalgar Square. The latter has been   redesigned in tribute to the triumphant Admiral   Nelson, under whose shadow the pub sits. We   even purchased an original Napoleonic cannon to   sit within the pub and it is now a favourite among   the Square’s visitors. Cannons featured again   when we sponsored the restoration of one of the   cannons that forms part of the Waterloo Battery   at the Tower of London.   The Harp, located just off Trafalgar Square on the   edge of Covent Garden, is a former CAMRA Pub   of the Year and there was much rumour following   Fuller’s acquisition that the pub would change   forever. We have proved the lengths we will go to   protect a pub’s heritage by carrying out an   incredible “non-refurbishment”. This involved   removing all the artefacts (including hundreds of   beer mats) from the walls, repainting and repairing   the building and paintwork, and then putting   everything back just as we had found it.   30  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘Controlling unruly MPs. ’
Dave Hay 
The Red Lion, Whitehall
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  31 1 2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Board of Directors
1  Alastair Kerr
2  John Dunsmore
3  Richard Fuller
4  James Douglas
5  Michael Turner
6  Simon Emeny
7  Ian Bray
8  Lynn Fordham
9  Jonathon Swaine
10  Sir James Fuller Bt.
11  Séverine Garnham
32  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Michael Turner  
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 
Committees
Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Experience 
Aged 63. Joined in 1978. A Chartered Accountant   with international experience. Initially ran the Wine  Division as Wine Director. Appointed Marketing   Director in 1988, Managing Director in 1992,     Chief Executive in 2002 and Chairman in 2007.   Chairman of the British Beer and Pub Association   2008-2010. Master of the Worshipful Company     of  Vintners 2011-2012.
Simon Emeny  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Experience 
Aged 49. Joined in 1996 from Bass plc where he   held a variety of senior operational and strategic   planning roles. Appointed to the Board as Retail   Director in May 1998, Managing Director, Fuller’s   Inns in July 2006, Group Managing Director in   November 2010 and Chief Executive in July 2013.   Non-Executive Director of Dunelm Group plc.   An Economics graduate and alumni of Harvard   Business  School.
James Douglas 
FINANCE DIRECTOR
Experience 
Aged 49. Appointed in 2007 from LSE-listed   telecoms operator Fibernet Group plc, where   he was Finance Director. Spent eight years with   Deutsche Bank as an investment banker. Qualified  as a prize-winning Chartered Accountant with   PricewaterhouseCoopers. Holds a first degree   in Physics and a Master’s degree in Economics.
Richard Fuller  
CORPOR ATE AFFAIRS  
DIRECTOR
Experience 
Aged 55. Joined the Company in 1984. Appointed   a Divisional Director in 1992 and to the Board in   December 2009 with responsibility initially for   Sales then additionally Personnel. Now responsible  for Corporate Affairs and Government Relations.   A GMP Graduate of Harvard Business School.
Ian Bray  
MANAGING DIRECTOR OF 
THE FULLER’S BEER COMPANY
Experience 
Aged 51. Appointed in 2011. Previously European   Marketing Director of Bunge S.A., a Switzerland-
based global foods and agricultural business. Has   held FMCG marketing and senior management   roles at both international and domestic level,   working with companies such as Wrigley, Müller and   SmithKline Beecham. A Business Studies graduate.
Jonathon Swaine  
MANAGING DIRECTOR  
OF FULLER’S INNS
Experience 
Aged 44. Appointed to the Board in 2012. Joined   the Company in 2005 and appointed as Operations   Director for Fuller’s Inns in 2007. Has previously   held positions at Carlton Communications and   Molson Coors. An Arts graduate with a Master’s   degree in Marketing and alumni of Columbia   Business  School.
Séverine Garnham  
COMPANY SECRETARY 
Experience 
Aged 45. Appointed in 2014 after nearly ten years   as Group Company Secretary of Eurotunnel.   Previously worked as a Solicitor in private practice   and then as Company Secretary to various UK   and international companies.
John Dunsmore  
SENIOR INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Committees
Member of the Remuneration Committee.   Member of the Audit Committee.   Member of the Nominations Committee.
Experience 
Aged 56. Appointed in 2009. Senior Non-
Executive Director. Deputy Chairman of Genius   Foods Ltd., Founder and CEO of The Hothouse   Investment Club and Non-Executive Chairman   of Chapel Down Group plc. Director of The   Edinburgh Beer Factory Limited. Former Chief   Executive of C&C Group plc and former Chief   Executive of Scottish & Newcastle plc prior to its   takeover by Heineken and Carlsberg in 2008.
Lynn Fordham  
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Committees
Chairman of the Audit Committee.     Member of the Remuneration Committee.   Member of the Nominations Committee.
Experience 
Aged 52. Appointed in 2011. Chief Executive of   SVG Capital and Aberdeen SVG Ltd. Previous   appointments include CFO SVG Capital, Deputy   CFO at BAA plc, Director of Audit and Risk at   Boots Group plc and Finance Director of ED & F   Man Sugar. In addition, she spent 10 years at Mobil   Oil in a number of financial and operational roles,   predominantly internationally. An accountancy   graduate and Chartered Accountant.
Alastair Kerr  
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Committees
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.   Member of the Audit Committee.
Experience 
Aged 65. Appointed in 2011. Non-Executive   Director and Chairman of the Remuneration   Committee at Havelock Europa PLC, Senior   Independent Director and Chairman of the   Remuneration Committee at Alliance Trust   PLC, Non-Executive Director of Fenwick Ltd. and   Steamer Trading Ltd. and Chairman of private   holding company Drilton Ltd. He is also a Public   Member of Network Rail. He has previously held   senior roles at Mothercare and Kwik-Fit, and was   Managing Director of Europe, Middle East and   Africa for The Body Shop and Managing Director   Europe for Virgin. He was previously Chairman   of Arran Aromatics Ltd. and a Non-Executive   Director of White Stuff.
Sir James Fuller Bt.  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
Experience
Aged 44. Appointed in 2010. Served in The Life   Guards 1991- 1998. Employed by the Company   from 1998-2003, working in the Tied and   Managed Pub estate and has since been running   his own business.
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  33 Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report to shareholders   together with the audited financial statements for   the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015.   Strategic Report
The statements and reviews on pages 8 to 31   comprise the Strategic Report which includes   information about the Group’s strategy and   business model as well as providing an update on   the  business  and  financial  performance  during  the  year and indications of likely future developments,   KPIs, principal risks and uncertainties and the Group’s   financial management and treasury policies.   Directors 
A list of all Directors who served during the financial   year, together with biographical details, is given   on pages 32 and 33.   Lynn Fordham and John Dunsmore, whose terms   of office expired on 18 January 2015 and   20 January 2015 respectively, were reappointed   by the Board of Directors at their meeting on   29 January 2015. In accordance with the Articles   of Association, their appointment will be subject   to the approval of shareholders at the Annual   General Meeting.
Jonathon Swaine and Richard Fuller retire by   rotation at the Annual General Meeting and offer   themselves for re-election. Both are Executive   Directors and have a rolling service contract of   12 months’ duration.   Details of all directors’ interests as at the end of   the financial year are set out in the Directors’   Remuneration Report on page 53.   Dividends
The Company paid an interim dividend of 6.40p   per ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share of 40p each and   0.640 pence per ‘B’ ordinary share of 4p each on   2 January 2015. The Directors now recommend   a final dividend of 10.20p per ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary   share of 40p each and 1.02p per ‘B’ ordinary share   of 4p each. This makes a total dividend for the   financial year of 16.60p per ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary   share of 40p each and 1.66p per ‘B’ ordinary   shares of 4p each.
The total proposed final dividend on ordinary   shares will be £5.6 million which together with   the 2015 interim dividend paid of £3.5 million and   the £120,000 of cumulative preference dividends   paid will make total dividends of £9.2 million.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information 
to Auditors
The directors who held office as at the date of   approval of this Directors’ Report, confirm that,   so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant   audit information (as defined in Section 418(2) of   the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s   auditors are unaware and each director has taken   all the steps that they ought to have taken as   director to make themselves aware of any relevant   audit information to establish that the Company’s   auditors are aware of that information.   The auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP , have indicated   their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution   that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the   Annual General Meeting.
Indemnity Provisions
The Articles of Association provide the Directors   with indemnities in relation to their duties as   Directors, including qualifying third party indemnity   provisions (within the meaning of the Companies   Acts). All of the Executive Directors’ contracts   contain a clause which states: “the Executive shall   be indemnified out of the assets of the Company   against any liability incurred by him as a Director   or other officer of the Company in defending any   proceedings (whether civil or criminal) in which   judgement is given in his favour or in which he is   acquitted or in connection with any application   under the Companies Acts in which relief from   liability is granted to him by the Court from liability  for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach   of trust he may be guilty of in relation to the affairs   of the Company.” The Company purchases   Directors and Officers liability insurance which   gives appropriate cover for any legal action   brought against its directors. This insurance also   covers the Trustees of the Company’s defined   benefit pension scheme. James Douglas is   a Trustee of the Scheme.
Political Donations
The Group does not make political donations.   Purchase of Own Shares 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 July 2014,   the Company was given authority to purchase   up to 4,848,083 ‘A’ ordinary shares to be held as   treasury shares to be used in connection with,   among other purposes, the Long Term Incentive   Plan (“LTIP”) and/or other share option schemes.   This authority will expire at the Annual General   Meeting and shareholders will   be  asked  to  give  a similar authority to purchase  shares  up  to  15%  of the ‘A’ ordinary capital at that date.   The Company’s maximum issued ordinary share   capital during the year was £22,793,726 comprising  33,518,679 40p A ordinary shares, 89,052,625 4p B   ordinary and 14,560,373 C 40p C ordinary shares.   During the year, the Company purchased a total   of 291,500 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares at a total cost of   £2,740,300 (exclusive of stamp duty). These share   purchases represented 0.21% of the maximum   issued  ordinary  shares  and  0.87%  of  the  Company’s  issued ‘A’ ordinary share capital.   110,255 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares held in treasury,   with a value of £857,983, were transferred to the   Trustee of the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”).   188,463 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares held in treasury   were allocated to participants of the Savings   Related Share Option Scheme, the Executive   Share Option Scheme and the Senior Executive   Share Option Scheme on exercise of options,   generating net cash proceeds of £1,000,330.   A total of 1,163,539 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares at   27 May 2015 are held as treasury shares.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 July 2014,   the Company was also given authority to purchase  3,558,009 4p ‘B’ ordinary shares at a total cost of   £3,406,793 (exclusive of stamp duty). These are   held as treasury shares. They represent 2.59% of   the maximum issued ordinary shares and 4% of   the Company’s issued ‘B’ ordinary share capital.
The Company employee share ownership trusts   purchased a total of 72,500 40p ‘A’ ordinary   shares at a total cost of £688,750 (exclusive of   stamp duty) for the Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)  and  248,089  4p  ‘B’  ordinary shares at a total cost   of £251,368 (exclusive of stamp duty) for the LTIP.
Employees
The  Group  gives  a  high  priority  to  communication  with all its employees and pensioners thus   encouraging a common awareness of the financial  and economic factors affecting the Group.   Increasingly, the Company’s intranet and e-mail   systems facilitate this, and we will continue to   search for ways to exploit these media to best   effect. Twice a year, all Brewery-based employees   are invited to a results presentation led by the   Chief Executive. Once a year the Company also   runs ‘Connection Week’ where one person from   each pub is invited to a conference at which a   number of messages are communicated. That   employee returns to their pub and shares the   information with their colleagues. Regular   newsletters are also generated for both The Fuller’s  Beer Company and Fuller’s Inns employees and   ad hoc news is regularly communicated via both   traditional notice boards and e-mail distributions.   The communications policy, which is in operation   throughout the business, is designed to ensure the   successful cascading of information. A structure   of consultation committees at both Divisional and   Corporate level is in place to facilitate a dialogue   between the Group and representatives of all   employees including union members. Taken   together, these communications have allowed   the Group to engage successfully with all our   employees, wherever they are employed.
34  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 34  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 The Group’s recruitment policy is designed   to ensure that all applications for employment,   including those made by disabled persons, are   given full and fair consideration, in light of the   applicants’ particular aptitudes and abilities. Our   online recruitment portal has been tested for the   potential for discrimination, and passed. The Group   also has an equal opportunities policy which is   designed to ensure that all employees are treated   equally in terms of training, career development   and promotion. Where employees develop a   disability during their employment by the Group,   every effort is made to continue their employment  and arrange for appropriate training, career   development and promotion as far as is reasonably  practicable. Development and training of our   employees at all levels has always been a priority   at Fuller’s.
The Company continues to offer qualifying staff   a Savings Related Share Option Scheme, a SIP   and a variety of performance related  bonus  arrangements, which serve to encourage staff   interest in the Group’s performance. Staff   throughout the Group are given an ‘Indulgence’   card allowing them to benefit from a staff   discount scheme in the Group’s managed pubs.
Share Capital
Information on the Company’s capital structure   and related restrictions is given in note 27 to   the financial statements. Details of significant   shareholdings are given in the tables on this page.
Computershare Trustees Limited holds a total   of 408,811 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares on behalf of   employees of the Company who are participants   in its SIP. This represents 1.22% of the issued ‘A’   ordinary share capital. In respect of the shares that   have been allocated, Computershare Trustees  Limited exercises voting rights in relation to those   shares, having consulted with the participants   about their voting intentions.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been advised under the   Disclosure and Transparency Rules that the   following held an interest in 3% or more of the   voting rights of its listed issued share capital:
% ‘A’ ordinary shares of 40p each
As at 28 March 2015
and 27 May 2015
BlackRock, Inc 10.43
Aberdeen Asset Management 
PLC and its subsidiaries 10.19
Ameriprise Financial, Inc 5.78
Kames Capital and 
associated entities 4.06
Dunarden Limited 3.04
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association state that the Board   may appoint Directors and that at the subsequent   Annual General Meeting, shareholders may elect   any such Director. Alternatively the Company   may directly appoint a Director. The Articles also   contain the power for the Company to remove   any Director by special resolution and appoint   someone in his place by ordinary resolution.   There are various other circumstances under   the Articles which would mean that the office   of a Director would be vacated, including if he   resigns, becomes of unsound mind or bankrupt.
At every Annual General Meeting one-third of   the Directors who are subject to retirement by   rotation or, if their number is not three or any   multiple of three, then the number nearest to   but not  exceeding  one-third  shall  retire  from  office   but, if there is only one Director who is subject to   retirement by rotation, he shall retire. In addition,   if any Director has at the start of the Annual   General Meeting been in office for more than   three years since his last appointment or   re-appointment he shall retire at that Annual   General Meeting.
The Articles do not contain any specific provisions   about amendments to the Articles which are   therefore governed by the relevant Companies   Act 2006 requirements which state that the   Articles may only be amended by Special Resolution.
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum and   Articles of Association and UK legislation, the   business of the Company is managed by the   Board which may exercise all the powers of the   Company. The Articles of the Company have a   section entitled “Powers and Duties of the Board”   which sets out powers such as the rights to establish   local boards, to appoint agents, to delegate and to   appoint persons with the designation “director”   without implying that the person is a Director of   the Company. There are further sections of the   Articles entitled “Allotment of Shares” setting out   the Board’s power to issue shares and purchase   the Company’s own shares, and entitled   “Borrowing Powers” setting out the provisions   concerning the Company’s power to borrow and   give security. The Directors have been authorised   to allot and issue ordinary shares. These powers   are exercised under authority of resolutions of the   Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
The Company is also aware of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights in the two classes   of its unlisted share capital:
% ‘B’ ordinary shares of 4p each % ‘C’ ordinary shares of 40p each
As at 28 March 2015
and 27 May 2015
As at 28 March 2015
and 27 May 2015
Sir J H F, Messrs A F and E F Fuller 16.93 Sir J H F, Messrs A F and E F Fuller 30.81
J F Russell-Smith Charitable Trust 7.97 Mr T J M Turner 6.16
Mr A G F Fuller 5.96 Mr H D Williams 6.01
A B Earle Charitable Trust 4.82 Miss S M Turner 5.16
Dunarden Limited 3.75 Mrs J Fuller 4.27
Mr R D Inverarity 3.67 Fuller Family Members Trust 3.99
Mr G F Inverarity 3.63 Mrs D M Turner 3.07
Mr M J Turner 3.46
Miss S M Turner 3.45
Mr H D Williams 3.35
Mr R H F Fuller 3.32
Mr T J M Turner 3.12
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  35
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Directors’ Report continued
The Group has entered into a number of   agreements with the major brewers operating in   the UK under which it both buys and sells beers   and these agreements may be terminated by the   other party should the Group undergo a change   of control.
In the event of a change of control the Company   is obliged to notify its main bank Lenders of such.   The Lenders shall not be obliged to fund any new   borrowing requests and the facilities will lapse   after 30 days from the change of control if terms   on which they can continue have not been   agreed. All borrowings including accrued interest   will become repayable within ten days of such   a lapse.
Information required under  
the Listing Rules
There is no information to disclose in this Annual  Report and Accounts pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4.
Corporate Governance
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance   is set out on pages 38 to 42. The Corporate   Governance Report forms part of this Directors’   Report and is incorporated into it by reference.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Group’s report on Corporate Social   Responsibility is set out on pages 24 to 31.   It contains information on greenhouse gas   emissions and gender diversity.
By order of the Board
Séverine Garnham 
Company Secretary
4 June 2015
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.   Griffin Brewery   Chiswick Lane South   London W4 2QB
Registered in England under number: 241882
36  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 36  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Directors’ Statements
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in Respect of the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing   the Strategic Report, the Annual Report, the   Remuneration Report and the Group and   Company financial statements in accordance   with applicable United Kingdom law and those   International Financial Reporting Standards   (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare   financial statements for each financial year. Under   that law the directors have elected to prepare the   financial statements in accordance with  IFRSs  as  adopted by the European Union. Under company   law  the  directors must not approve the financial   statements unless they are satisfied that they   give a true and fair view of the state of affairs   and profit or loss of the Group and Company for   the financial period. In preparing the Group and   Company financial statements, the directors are   required to:
•  select  suitable  accounting  policies  in  accordance  with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in   Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply   them  consistently;
•  present information, including accounting policies,   in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,   comparable and understandable information;
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance   with the specific requirements in IFRSs is   insufficient to enable users to understand the   impact of particular transactions, other events   and conditions on the Group and Company’s   financial position and financial performance;
•  state that the Group and Company have   complied with IFRSs, subject to any material   departures disclosed and explained in the   financial statements; and
•  make judgements and estimates that are   reasonable and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate   accounting records that are sufficient to show and   explain the Group’s transactions and disclose with   reasonable accuracy at any time the financial   position of the Group and Company and enable   them to ensure that the financial statements and   the Remuneration Report comply with the   Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations,   including the requirements of the Listing Rules   and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules   (“DTR”) and in the case of the Group financial   statements, with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.   They are also responsible for safeguarding the   assets of the Group and hence for taking   reasonable steps for the prevention and detection   of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the   Annual Report in accordance with applicable law   and regulations. The Directors consider the Annual   Report and the financial statements, taken as a   whole, provides the information necessary to assess   the Company’s performance, business model and   strategy and is fair, balanced and understandable.   The Directors are responsible for the maintenance  and integrity of the corporate and financial   information included on the Company’s website.   Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the   preparation and dissemination of financial statements   may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.   Statement as to Preparation 
of Financial Statements
The Directors confirm, to the best of their knowledge:
•  that these financial statements, prepared   in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the   European Union, give a true and fair view of the   assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of   the Group and Company taken as a whole; and
•  that the Annual Report and the Strategic Report   includes a fair review of the development and   performance of the business and the position   of the Group and Company taken as a whole,   together with a description of the principal risks   and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. are   listed on pages 32 and 33.
Directors’ Statement as to Disclosure 
of Information to Auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board   at the time of approving the Directors’ Report are   listed on pages 32 and 33. Having made enquiries   of fellow Directors and of the Company’s auditors,   each of these Directors confirms that:
•  to the best of each Director’s knowledge and   belief, there is no information relevant to the   preparation of this report of which the Company’s   auditors are unaware; and
•  each Director has taken all the steps a Director   might reasonably be expected to have taken to   be aware of any relevant audit information and   to establish that the Company’s auditors are   aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Michael Turner 
Chairman
4 June 2015
James Douglas 
Finance Director
4 June 2015
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  37
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Corporate Governance Report
I am pleased to confirm that I see it as the   Chairman’s responsibility to lead the Board and   make sure it is working effectively. This year we   are able to report full compliance with the UK   Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). There   are several key issues that I wanted to comment   on. One of these is the issue of succession planning.   This is a complex topic for a business that has very   low turnover amongst its senior management and   is still very much a family controlled concern whilst  also being a listed public company. However,   succession plans continue to be discussed both at   Executive Committee and Board level. Throughout   the rest of the business, succession plans are   in place at departmental level and are reviewed   regularly by the relevant Directors in conjunction   with their Executive colleagues and their   personnel advisors. Furthermore, all department   plans are compiled into a Company succession   plan which provides effective review of cross-
departmental promotion and opportunities.   In terms of Board balance, I chair the Nominations   Committee and am personally involved in all Board   level recruitment so I am able to ensure that we   continue to have a good balance of skills, experience,   independence and knowledge on our Board and   our Board Committees. I am satisfied that our   Board is comprised of the right individuals who   have the skills required to run this type of business   and to respond to the challenges presented by   the continually changing environment in which   we operate. The Board recognises the importance   of all types of diversity for Board effectiveness.   We continue to believe that appointments should   be made on the basis of merit against the selection  criteria for any particular role.   We believe that you can only have an effective   Board when all members understand what is   required of them and when they all have time   to conduct their duties. All of our Directors have   detailed appointment letters or contracts which   set out their duties. We confirm that appointment   letters for Non-Executive Directors set out the   expected time commitment required. We also   have a policy that the Directors can only take on   additional roles with Board approval. In line with   the Code, the terms of appointment for all our   Non-Executives specifically state that the role of   the Non-Executive Directors is to challenge and   help develop strategy.
Finally I would like shareholders to understand   that I am in charge of our annual Board evaluation   process. I am aware that larger PLCs are required   to seek external assistance with this process but   do not believe that such a process would be likely   to add extra value as long as our own process is   robust. I believe that we have that robustness and   that the process encourages a healthy debate on   things that could be improved.
Michael Turner 
Chairman
4 June 2015
Introduction and Compliance
The Board of Directors is committed to the   highest standards of corporate governance and   believes that such standards are critical to overall   business integrity and performance. This report   explains how the Company applies the principles   of the Code which shareholders can find on   the Financial Reporting Council’s website at     www.frc.org.uk.
The Company has complied with the requirements   of the Code, as applicable to a smaller quoted   company, throughout the financial year.
The information that is required by Code   provision C.1.2 on the business model and the   strategy for delivering the Company’s objectives   can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 7   to 31. The information relating to the share capital   of the Company that is required by DTR 7.2.6R   can be found within the Directors’ Report on   page 35.
The Board
The Board’s Role
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible   to the shareholders for the performance and   long-term success of the Group. Its role includes   the establishment, review and monitoring of   strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions,   disposals and capital expenditure, ownership of   the corporate values, overseeing the Group’s   systems of internal controls, governance and risk   management and ensuring that the appropriate   resources are in place to deliver these and fulfil   the Company’s obligations to its stakeholders.
How the Board Works
The Board governs through its executive   management, and formally via its other clearly   mandated Committees. Each standing Board   Committee has specific written terms of reference  which are reviewed by the Board annually and   there is a formal list of Matters Reserved for the   Board (which is also reviewed annually). This   distinguishes between matters reserved for the   Board and Executive Committee decisions. The   terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration   and Nominations Committees are available on   the Company’s website. All Committee Chairmen  report  orally  on  the  proceedings  of  their  Committees  at the next meeting of the Board, and the minutes   of the meetings of all Board Committees (with   some exceptions on remuneration matters) are   provided to Board members. The Chairman   ensures that the Executive Directors provide   accurate and timely information for Board   meetings which is then open to debate and   challenge by all. Meetings enjoy open dialogue   and constructive challenge on all issues is   encouraged. With a good information flow   between and prior to Board meetings, decisions   are made in a timely manner after appropriate   questions are dealt with. The Board has adopted   a procedure, in accordance with the Company’s   Articles, to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise   situations where a Director has an interest that   conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the   interests of the Company.
Michael Turner, 
Chairman
38  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 38  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Board Meetings
The Board meets formally at least six times a year   with papers circulated a week in advance and the   agenda and papers for these meetings are subject   to  the  scrutiny  of  the  Chairman  and  the  Company  Secretary. However the Board regularly considers   matters on an ad hoc basis between scheduled   meetings. The Executive Committee meets   formally at least eleven times a year and also   meets informally most weeks. There is thus a   regular flow of information at Board and Executive   Committee  level.
At Board meetings, the agendas cover projects,   analysis  of  the  market  in  which  the  Group  operates  and performance. Each of the Executive Directors   and the Company Secretary also update the   Board at each meeting on matters for which they   are responsible. The Board is responsible for   approving the annual budget and the annual and   half-year results. The Board also meets away from   the Griffin Brewery every year for an in-depth   review of corporate strategy, and other agenda   items might include an update on the economy   and a review of the Group’s competitors. The   Non-Executive Directors from time to time meet   with members of the senior management team at   the Brewery and also spend days out in the trade   with individual members of that team. This helps   to keep the Non-Executive Directors up to date   with the operations of the Group and also provides  the Executive Directors with valuable feedback   about the Company’s people and its operations.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Simon   Emeny and its meetings focus on the detail of the   Group’s performance. The Finance Director leads   a review of the Group’s management accounts   and presents updates on treasury and credit control.   Each Executive Director and the Company   Secretary update their colleagues on the key   issues facing their part of the business. There is   a good level of consultation and debate at these   meetings. The list of Matters Reserved for the   Board sets out which matters need Board approval  and which decisions can be made at Executive   Committee level. Most significant business decisions   are made by the Board, but matters such as health   and safety policy and approving major contracts   are taken at Executive Committee level. At the   beginning of most Executive Committee   meetings a Senior Manager is invited to join the   meeting and talk to the Committee about the   issues in their department. Three times a year, all   of the divisional directors and financial controllers   join together with the Executive Committee to   conduct a detailed review of the half-year and   full-year accounts, and to construct the annual   budget, before these are debated at Board level.   As well as the dialogue within the boardroom,   the Non-Executive Directors meet privately,   under the leadership of the Senior Independent   Director, without the Executive Directors present.   They also meet with the Chairman and the Chief   Executive  on  a  regular  basis.  These  meetings  allow  for the review of issues faced by the business, the   continuation of dialogue on strategic issues, the   discussion of Board appointments when appropriate,   succession planning, and the provision of support   to the Chairman and the Chief Executive in   their roles.
Attendance 2014/2015 Board Executive Audit Remuneration
Number of formal meetings 6 11 4 4
Director 
Michael Turner 6 * *
Simon Emeny 6 11 * *
James Douglas 6 10 * 
Richard Fuller 6 11  
Ian Bray 6 11  
Jonathon Swaine 6 11  
Sir James Fuller 6   
John Dunsmore 6 4 4
Lynn Fordham 6 4 4
Alastair Kerr 6 4 4
*    These Directors are not members of the Committees but are invited to be in attendance at meetings.
Attendance at Board and 
Committee Meetings
The table above gives details of attendance at   Board and Committee meetings during the year.
The Board believes that all of its members have   sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively.   All Directors are required to seek permission before   accepting any external appointments, therefore   Board members are kept fully aware of their   colleagues’  other  commitments.
Composition and Balance of the Board
There were no changes to the composition of the   Board in the period. Michael Turner is responsible   for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness  and openness, and that communications with   shareholders are valuable. The Chairman does   not have any commitments which constrain his   ability to fulfil his role. Simon Emeny is responsible   for all operational aspects of the Group.
Currently the Company has four Non-Executive   Directors, one of whom (Sir James Fuller) is a family  member. This representation is very important   in a Company with a high proportion of family   shareholders. The other three Non-Executive   Directors, all of whom are deemed independent   under  the  Code,  are  experienced  business  leaders  and all of the Non-Executives bring a wide range   of skills and experiences to the Board. The Directors   consider that the Board is well-balanced as it has   the right number of members for the size of the   Group and the Directors agree that no one   individual dominates discussions and that   each makes a full and positive contribution.   The Directors’ biographies are on pages 32 and   33. John Dunsmore is the Senior Independent   Director and an industry expert who brings   knowledge, support and advice to the Chairman   and all the other Board members; he is in regular   dialogue with all Board members outside of Board   meetings and co-ordinates the views of the   Non-Executive Directors as and when required.   All of the Independent Non-Executive Directors   are determined by the Board to be independent   in character and judgement and there are no   relationships or circumstances which could affect   or appear to affect their judgement; all are appointed   for specified terms. The details of the Non-
Executive Directors’ respective arrangements are   as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report   on pages 43 to 57 and are available for inspection   at the Company’s registered office.
Advice for the Board
There is in place a procedure under which   Directors can obtain independent professional   advice. The Directors also have access to the   advice and services of the Company Secretary   who is responsible to the Board for ensuring   that Board procedures are complied with. The   Directors are satisfied that any concerns they raise   at Board meetings are recorded in the minutes.   The Company maintains appropriate insurance   cover in respect of legal action against its   Directors and Officers.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  39
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Corporate Governance Report continued
Professional Development
All Directors attend training courses, industry   forums and specialist briefings relevant to their   role throughout the year. Occasionally, specialists   such as the Company’s actuary or corporate   lawyer join a Board meeting to brief the Board   on a particular topic. Both the Board and the   Executive Committee visit Group pubs and hotels   as part of the Board meeting programme. On   these and on other occasions, Board meetings   may be held in the Group’s pubs, with the aim   of keeping the Directors familiar with the Group’s   estate. Executive Directors are permitted to hold   one other paid directorship, with the Board’s   consent, as the Board believes that experience   of how other boards work enhances the Directors’   contribution to Fuller’s. Simon Emeny currently   holds such a directorship at Dunelm Group plc.
Board Evaluation
The Chairman conducts an annual evaluation of   the Board, where all Board members are asked to   rate the Board’s work across a number of different   topics, with constructive criticism encouraged, via   the medium of a questionnaire. The questionnaire   includes questions on the balance of skills,   experience, independence and knowledge,   diversity (including gender diversity), how the   Board works as a unit and other factors relevant to   its effectiveness. Where necessary the Chairman   seeks clarification on the responses given; he then   consolidates the responses and reports back to   the Board, highlighting significant improvements   and deteriorations in any particular area by   comparing results with previous years’ outputs   and agreeing actions to tackle any areas requiring   improvement. Unattributed comments of   significance are shared with all. This year the   results were fractionally higher than last year’s   scores. The results did provide some insight into   areas that could still be improved further and   these were debated at a Board meeting and were   the Chairman’s focus in terms of follow up. The   Audit and Remuneration Committees conduct   similar assessments and their work is also   commented upon in the evaluation conducted   by the Chairman. The Senior Non-Executive   Director annually appraises the Chairman’s   performance, having first consulted with the other   Non-Executive Directors and also the Executive   team. The appraisal of the other Executive   Directors and the Company Secretary is conducted   annually by the Chairman or Chief Executive and,   as part of the appraisal process, individual training   and development needs are discussed. The annual  appraisal of the Non-Executive Directors is conducted   by the Chairman, following consultation with the   Executive team.
Board Re-election
The Articles of Association of the Company   ensure that all Directors are subject to election by   shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting   after their appointment and to re-election at three   yearly intervals.
Board Committees
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee Chairman is   Michael Turner and the other members are John   Dunsmore and Lynn Fordham. It is responsible   for nominating candidates for appointment as   Directors, for approval by the Board although   the full Board will also typically informally discuss   Board appointments. The Committee did not   meet during the year as no appointments were   made. The Board has recently reviewed the   Company’s equal opportunities policy which   requires that all who work for the Company have   appropriate regard for diversity in their decision   making. The Board also discussed Lord Davies’   recommendations, but does not believe that   setting percentage targets for the number of   women on the Board is appropriate, given the   key principle of appointing on merit. As and when   board vacancies arise and should the support of   an executive search firm be required, the Board   and the Nominations Committee will ensure that   it only uses firms that have signed up to their   industry’s Voluntary Code of Conduct (prepared   in response to Lord Davies’ report). Further   information on gender diversity across the   business can be found in the Corporate and   Social Responsibility Report on page 26.
The Remuneration Committee
Information about the Remuneration Committee   and Remuneration Policy is given in the Directors’   Remuneration Report.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee of the Board, chaired by   Lynn Fordham, comprises the three Independent   Non-Executive Directors and meets at least four   times a year. The members of the Audit Committee   consider that they have the requisite skills and   experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the   Committee. In addition, the Chairman, the Chief   Executive, the Finance Director and members   of the finance team join the meetings on a   regular basis as do the external Audit Partner   and Audit Manager.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee   encourages comprehensive debate and scrutiny   of management’s and auditors’ reports by the   Committee members. She also meets with the   manager responsible for internal audits, the   external Audit Partner and the Finance Director   outside of Audit Committee meetings to give   them the opportunity to raise any concerns they   may have about their work or their roles and to   provide advice and support as required.   The Audit Committee’s responsibilities are   outlined in the Committee’s terms of reference   and cover all those matters required by the Code.   The Committee has a meeting planner which   sets out the key items to be covered at its regular   meetings which include reviewing the financial   statements and announcements, monitoring   changes in accounting practices and policies and   reviewing decisions with a significant element of   judgement. In addition, the Audit Committee is   responsible for ensuring that the Company’s risk   monitoring programme, internal audit processes   and regulatory compliance are appropriate.     At all meetings an update on risk management   is presented. The Chairman of the Committee   encourages debate and discussion of topical   issues outside of the routine agenda items and   ensures that such discussions are held at least   twice a year. The Audit Committee has   responsibility for the oversight of the external   audit function. At the request of the Board, the   Audit Committee provides confirmation to the   Board as to how it has discharged its responsibilities   so that the Board can be satisfied that information   presented in the Annual Report is fair, balanced   and understandable.   During its review of the Group’s financial   statements for the year to 28 March 2015, the   Audit Committee considered the following   significant issues, including those communicated   by the Auditors during their reporting:
40  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 40  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 The Board was made fully aware of any significant   financial reporting issues and judgements made   in connection with the preparation of the   financial statements.   Other items discussed in the year included the   accounting for taxation, discussion of the Company’s   risk management process, consideration of   selected individual risks from the risk register,   discussion of the internal audit work completed   during the year and progress on actions arising   from both risk management and internal audits.
The Audit Committee has a primary responsibility   for making recommendations to the Board on the   re-appointment and removal of external auditors.   The Company’s year ended 28 March 2015 is the   second of a five-year maximum term that the   current Audit Partner has been in the role for   the Company.
There is in place a whistle blowing policy, which   is overseen by the Audit Committee, and which   allows staff to raise any concerns in confidence,   directly with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.   Posters reminding staff about the existence of   the policy and how it may be used are reissued   annually in order to maintain a good awareness   of the whistle blowing arrangements throughout   the Company.   The Committee also reviewed its own effectiveness   during the year.
The Directors’ statement on the Company’s   system of internal controls is set out on this page.
Accountability
Auditors
The Committee is happy for the Board to   recommend to shareholders the re-election   of Grant Thornton UK LLP who were appointed   in September 2013 following a formal tender   process. Their effectiveness will be formally   reviewed by the Committee at the September   2015 meeting, although there are no issues of   concern with their performance to date.
The Group’s auditors may from time to time   provide non-audit services to the Company. The   fees paid to Grant Thornton UK LLP for audit   services were £100,000, for audit related services   were £16,000 and for non-audit related services   were £3,600. The Committee imposes an upper   limit of £50,000 per annum on the amount that   the finance team can spend with the auditors   for non-audit items without specific approval   from the Committee. It is Group policy to seek   quotations from multiple providers for significant   non-audit services and only to appoint the provider  (which could then be the Auditors) that offers the   best combination of price and expertise. The   non-audit services were provided in the year by a   team independent of those providing audit services.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s  system of internal control and management of   risks and reviewing its effectiveness. The system   is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute   assurance of:
•  the mitigation of risks which might cause the   failure of business objectives;
•  no material misstatements or losses;
•  the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised   use or disposition;
•  the maintenance of proper accounting records   and the reliability of financial information used   within the business or for publication; and
•  compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The  Company  maintains  business  continuity  plans,  and exercises these plans on an annual basis.
Management within the Finance Department are   responsible for the appropriate maintenance of   financial records and processes that ensure that   all financial information is relevant, reliable,   in accordance with the applicable laws and   regulations, and distributed both internally and   externally in a timely manner. A review of the   financial statements is completed by management  to ensure that the financial position and results of   the Group are appropriately reflected. All financial   information published by the Group is subject to   the review of the Audit Committee.
Significant Issue How the issue was addressed.
Impairment testing The Committee considered the proposed impairment of property assets for both the Half Year Report and 
the Annual Report. The Committee was satisfied with the approach presented by management and the 
judgements made for those properties at risk of impairment.
Acquisition of a majority interest in 
The Stable Pizza and Cider Limited
The Committee was satisfied with the proposed accounting treatment and disclosures in the financial statements.
Exceptional items The Committee considered the nature of items classified as ‘Exceptional’ in the financial statements. The 
Committee was satisfied that the items management proposed to show as exceptional are not linked to the 
underlying trading of the Group. 
Exceptional items continue to include:
• Profit or loss on property disposals
• Business acquisition costs expensed
• Changes to onerous leases provisions
• Net charge on property impairment
• Net interest expense on the Group’s defined benefit pension plan.
It was also decided to show the one-off pension curtailment gain recognised in the year as an exceptional 
item as it is not associated with underlying trading.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  41
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Corporate Governance Report continued
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the   Group’s system of internal control which has also   been discussed in detail by the Audit Committee,   including taking account of material developments  since the year end. The review covers all material   controls including financial and operational controls,   compliance and risk management systems. Where  weaknesses are identified, actions to address   them are agreed.   The Board has procedures in place necessary to   follow the Turnbull Guidance (“Internal Control:   Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”)   for the full financial year. The Group Risk Manager   co-ordinates this process by leading regular risk   assessment workshops in which new risks are   identified and added to the risk register, and   existing risks re-evaluated by the risk owners.   Regular meetings, chaired by the Executive   Directors, are held in addition to the workshops   in order to assess the effectiveness of the controls   that are in place, identify new risks and review   existing risk mitigation plans.   Key elements of the system of internal control   designed to address significant risks and   uncertainties, as documented on pages 22     and 23, include:
•  clearly defined levels of responsibility and   delegation throughout the Group, together with   well-structured reporting lines up to the Board;
•  the preparation of comprehensive annual budgets   for each division, including commentary on key   business opportunities and risks, approved by   the Executive Directors and further reviewed   by the Board on a consolidated basis;
•  an Executive Committee review of actual   monthly results against budget, together   with commentary on significant variances   and updates of both profit and cash flow   expectations for the year;
•  a detailed investment approval process requiring  Board authorisation for all major investments;
•  detailed post-implementation appraisals of major   capital expenditure projects;
•  regular reporting of legal and accounting   developments to the Board;
•  regular review of the Group’s risk register   and discussion of significant risks by the Board   and Audit Committee, which among other   things takes account of the significance of   environmental, social and governance matters   to the business;
•  monitoring of accident statistics and the results   of health and safety audits; and
•  maintenance of an ISO 900 certified quality   control system.
The Group does not have a formal internal audit   function  and,  after  a  review  by  the  Audit  Committee  and the Board, the Board has confirmed that   it believes that the existing arrangements for   internal audit are appropriate. Management may   from time to time augment the internal resource   for these audits with specialist external resources.   The Group carries out internal audits on financial   areas according to a programme agreed between   the Audit Committee and the Finance Director   and with input from the other Executive Directors   and the external auditors as appropriate. The   audits are co-ordinated by an experienced senior   member of the finance team and are undertaken   by other members of the finance team; in each   case the person undertaking the audit is   independent of the area which is the subject   of the audit. The internal audit reports, the   management responses and the recommended   actions are presented in summary form to the   Audit Committee on a regular basis. There are   also procedures in place to ensure recommended   actions are implemented. During the year, audits   were performed on the Brewery cash controls,   the company car scheme controls and the duty   payable controls, as well as a number of reviews   on other internal processes.   In addition, the Group employs a team of retail   business auditors who monitor the controls in   place in the Managed Pub estate, in particular   those over stock and cash. This team reports   directly to the Fuller’s Inns Financial Controller   but their Manager attends Audit Committee   meetings twice a year to discuss the progress   his team is making and the issues they are   dealing with.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company has an ongoing programme of   individual meetings with institutional shareholders,  allowing the Company to update shareholders on   the performance of the business and the strategy   for the future, and to give shareholders an   opportunity to discuss corporate governance   matters. The Company’s brokers contact key   shareholders to establish if they would like to see   the Chief Executive and Finance Director in the   days following their presentation to the City on   the preliminary and half year results. The Chairman,   Richard Fuller and Sir James Fuller are the key   contacts with the Company’s family shareholders   and Sir James Fuller has a specific role to keep   in touch with those shareholders. The Senior   Independent Director and the other Non-Executive   Directors are all willing to attend meetings with   shareholders or to be contacted by shareholders   should they have any concerns which have not   been resolved through the usual channels.   The Non-Executive Directors have had no such   requests during the last financial year. All Board   members receive copies of feedback reports   from the City presentations and meetings with   shareholders, thus keeping them in touch with   shareholder opinion.
The Board supports the use of the Annual   General Meeting to communicate, in particular,   with private investors, and the Chairman and   Chief Executive make a detailed presentation to   shareholders updating them on the Company’s   performance and progress. The Public Relations   team also attends the Annual General Meeting   and provides further information to shareholders   about the Company through photo boards   featuring pub and product information. The Board   is also keen to encourage institutional investors   to attend the meeting. In line with the duties set   out in the Stewardship Code for institutional   shareholders published in July 2010. Should they   have concerns over any issues being voted upon   at the Annual General Meeting, they can then   meet all the Directors and discuss them in person,   particularly, if they have declined an invitation for   an individual meeting. The Chairman arranges   for the Chairman of each of the Company’s   Board Committees to answer relevant questions   at the meeting and encourages all Directors to   be present.
By order of the Board
Séverine Garnham 
Company Secretary
4 June 2015
Griffin Brewery   Chiswick Lane South   Chiswick, London W4 2QB
42  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 42  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Statement of the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder   On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present   the Remuneration Report for the 52 weeks ended   28 March 2015.   The report follows last year’s presentation in two   separate sections. The first covers the Company’s   Remuneration Policy for all of its Main Board   Directors (set out on pages 32 and 33) as approved   by shareholders at last year’s Annual General   Meeting for a period of three years. It is designed   to explain to shareholders how that policy   supports the Company’s strategy. There are no   changes being proposed to the policy and there   have been no payments made outside of the   approved policy in the reporting period.
The second part of the report shows you the detail   of how the policy was applied in the last financial   year. That part of the report will be subject to your   approval in the same way as it was last year.
Whilst there has not been any change to   remuneration during the financial year and   therefore we have not engaged with shareholders,   I would be happy to receive any comments you   may have on this report. I hope that you find the   report clear and comprehensive and that it helps   demonstrate how the remuneration of your   Directors is very much linked to the performance   of your Company, and that you are able to support   the resolutions on remuneration being presented   to you at this year’s Annual General Meeting.   Alastair Kerr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 June 2015
Report on Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This policy, approved by shareholders at the   Annual General Meeting held on 24 July 2014, was   prepared in compliance with Part 4 of Schedule 8   to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and   Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment)   Regulations 2013. The Company intends to make   all future payments to its Directors consistent with   this policy for the three years following the date   of approval of the policy unless amended by the   shareholders at an intervening general meeting.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to support   the Company’s business strategy of creating   shareholder value and increasing earnings per share   (“EPS”) in the longer term for its shareholders. In   order to do so it must attract, retain and motivate   high-calibre Executive Directors. The policy is   therefore to provide competitive packages for   the Executives, through reflecting the Group’s   performance against financial objectives and   rewarding above average performance.   Accordingly, the key elements are:
•  a significant proportion of performance-related   pay that rewards Executives in line with Company   performance and strongly aligns their interests   with those of shareholders;
•  personal bonus targets for operational Directors   that focus on delivery of the strategic drivers for   growth in the Company’s business strategy;
•  base pay that rewards above-average performance   and remains competitive;
•  a competitive range of benefits; and
•  participation in a range of share schemes including   a long-term incentive plan.
When setting the Remuneration Policy the   Committee considered the Group’s performance   on environmental, social and governance matters.   The Committee does not believe that the existing   incentive structure raises any environmental,   governance or social risks by inadvertently   motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee believes that the Remuneration   Policy is consistent with its risk management   policy in that existing remuneration structures do   not encourage management to take inappropriate   risks to achieve targets. It is felt that there is a very   low risk of short-term decisions driving annual   bonus pay-outs and the focus is very much based   on a long-term remuneration model, delivering   value through the Company’s various share plans.
Here are the various elements of the Directors’   remuneration and the different performance   conditions that apply to them.
Alastair Kerr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  43
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Executive Directors (“Executives”)
 
Element
Purpose – how the element supports the short and 
long-term strategic objectives of the Company
 
Operation
 
Opportunity
Performance measures 
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions 
for malus and clawback (if any)
Base Salary To recruit, retain and reward high calibre Executives to 
deliver the Company’s strategy. The salary will reflect 
each role, the importance of that role to the business 
and the experience the individual brings to it.
The Committee sets the base salary and this is reviewed taking into 
account inflation, individual and corporate performance.
From time to time, advisors are commissioned to obtain benchmarking 
data for companies in the sector and/or of a similar size, to check 
market positioning.
Annual salary reviews take effect from 1 June in any year. 
The Committee expects to target salaries around the 
median to upper quartile of similar-sized businesses.
Not applicable. Executive salaries were increased  
by between 1.93% and 12.68% 
in June 2014.
Benefits To recruit and retain Executives by providing competitive 
benefits which also protect Executives and provide 
preventative care for them. 
The Company offers Executives a range of benefits which include:
• Car allowance
• Paid holidays
• Life assurance
• Private medical insurance
• Product allowance
• A private account which allows the purchase of goods at cost price 
plus VAT
• Subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations
• Regular medical check-ups
• Permanent health insurance.
The benefits offered are those typically offered at this 
level. Car allowances are reviewed every January. 
Product allowances are reviewed from time to time but 
not typically increased every year. The cost of providing 
the insurance products varies from year to year.
Not applicable. The benefit is unchanged but the 
cost of insurance products varies 
from year to year.
Annual Bonus To incentivise Executives to deliver performance in line 
with the Group strategy and to align their interests with 
those of shareholders.
Bonus targets are set annually in relation to the profit achieved by 
The Fuller’s Beer Company, Fuller’s Inns and the Group. The performance 
measures are weighted dependent on the responsibilities of each 
Executive and are designed to be stretching.
The target for the bonus includes the cost of the bonus itself.
The maximum pay-out under the bonus scheme is 75% 
of salary. No pay-out would be made if the minimum 
threshold on the bonus target schedules is not achieved. 
If profits have declined to a specified degree in the year 
bonuses are due to be paid, the Committee will assess 
the performance of the Group relative to a selected peer 
group. Payments will only be authorised if the Group has 
performed better than the average of the peer group and 
where the Group’s performance represents outperformance.
The actual performance measures for 2015 are linked to 
the EPS and profit targets contained in the Group budget 
for Fuller’s Inns and The Fuller’s Beer Company. Current 
and previous targets are considered commercially 
confidential and will not be published. These targets 
have been selected as the Committee believes they 
reward Executives in line with Company performance  
and strongly align their interests with those of shareholders.
New bonus targets were agreed 
in May 2015 for the financial year 
2015/2016 subject to the revised 
bonus rules approved the previous 
year including malus and 
clawback provisions.
Share Options
Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme (ESOS)
To align the interests of Executives with those 
of shareholders. 
A tax-advantaged executive share option scheme under which options 
may be granted to Executives periodically up to a maximum total value 
set by HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”). Once options have vested 
they must be exercised before the tenth anniversary of grant.
Executives may be issued and hold share options up to 
the current maximum value set by HMRC of £30,000 
at any one time.
ESOS options vest when growth in EPS adjusted 
principally to exclude exceptional items (“Adjusted EPS”) 
exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over the three-year 
performance period. The Committee is authorised to 
make appropriate amendments to Adjusted EPS.
No change.
Senior Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme (SESOS)
A non-tax-advantaged executive share option scheme under which 
options were granted to Executives but which has now expired.
The maximum benefit granted to Executives under the 
SESOS was 20% of salary per annum.
SESOS options vest at 40% (minimum) when growth in 
Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over 
the three-year performance period. Maximum vesting 
(100% of grant) occurs when growth in Adjusted EPS 
exceeds inflation by 21% over the three-year period.
The performance targets and restrictions are considered  
to be a realistic test of management performance and 
were chosen because they are consistent with corporate 
profit growth objectives and ensure that options only 
become exercisable against the background of a 
sustained real increase in the financial performance  
of the Group.
No change.
Save As You 
Earn Share 
Option Scheme 
(SAYE scheme)
All employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. with at least one year’s 
service in July in any year are eligible under this tax-advantaged scheme 
to receive options to subscribe for 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares at a discount 
of 20% on the prevailing market price at the time of the grant having 
entered into a three or five-year savings contract for the exercise price.
Under the SAYE Scheme rules eligible employees may 
agree to save up to £250 per month over a period of 
three or five years and then purchase shares within six 
months of the end of the term.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets 
in SAYE schemes.
The current SAYE Scheme expires 
in July this year and a resolution 
for the adoption of a new SAYE 
Scheme will be put forward  
at the forthcoming Annual  
General Meeting.
Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP)
All employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. with at least five months’ 
service in November in any year are eligible under this tax-advantaged 
scheme to receive free 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares in December of that 
year. Shares are held by the SIP Trustees for a minimum of three years 
and a maximum of five years before being available to be passed 
to participants.
Shares are awarded based on length of service and base 
salary. The maximum value of the shares allowable under 
the Scheme is £3,000 in any one year.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets 
in SIPs.
No change.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
44  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 44  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Executive Directors (“Executives”)
 
Element
Purpose – how the element supports the short and 
long-term strategic objectives of the Company
 
Operation
 
Opportunity
Performance measures 
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions 
for malus and clawback (if any)
Base Salary To recruit, retain and reward high calibre Executives to 
deliver the Company’s strategy. The salary will reflect 
each role, the importance of that role to the business 
and the experience the individual brings to it.
The Committee sets the base salary and this is reviewed taking into 
account inflation, individual and corporate performance.
From time to time, advisors are commissioned to obtain benchmarking 
data for companies in the sector and/or of a similar size, to check 
market positioning.
Annual salary reviews take effect from 1 June in any year. 
The Committee expects to target salaries around the 
median to upper quartile of similar-sized businesses.
Not applicable. Executive salaries were increased  
by between 1.93% and 12.68% 
in June 2014.
Benefits To recruit and retain Executives by providing competitive 
benefits which also protect Executives and provide 
preventative care for them. 
The Company offers Executives a range of benefits which include:
• Car allowance
• Paid holidays
• Life assurance
• Private medical insurance
• Product allowance
• A private account which allows the purchase of goods at cost price 
plus VAT
• Subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations
• Regular medical check-ups
• Permanent health insurance.
The benefits offered are those typically offered at this 
level. Car allowances are reviewed every January. 
Product allowances are reviewed from time to time but 
not typically increased every year. The cost of providing 
the insurance products varies from year to year.
Not applicable. The benefit is unchanged but the 
cost of insurance products varies 
from year to year.
Annual Bonus To incentivise Executives to deliver performance in line 
with the Group strategy and to align their interests with 
those of shareholders.
Bonus targets are set annually in relation to the profit achieved by 
The Fuller’s Beer Company, Fuller’s Inns and the Group. The performance 
measures are weighted dependent on the responsibilities of each 
Executive and are designed to be stretching.
The target for the bonus includes the cost of the bonus itself.
The maximum pay-out under the bonus scheme is 75% 
of salary. No pay-out would be made if the minimum 
threshold on the bonus target schedules is not achieved. 
If profits have declined to a specified degree in the year 
bonuses are due to be paid, the Committee will assess 
the performance of the Group relative to a selected peer 
group. Payments will only be authorised if the Group has 
performed better than the average of the peer group and 
where the Group’s performance represents outperformance.
The actual performance measures for 2015 are linked to 
the EPS and profit targets contained in the Group budget 
for Fuller’s Inns and The Fuller’s Beer Company. Current 
and previous targets are considered commercially 
confidential and will not be published. These targets 
have been selected as the Committee believes they 
reward Executives in line with Company performance  
and strongly align their interests with those of shareholders.
New bonus targets were agreed 
in May 2015 for the financial year 
2015/2016 subject to the revised 
bonus rules approved the previous 
year including malus and 
clawback provisions.
Share Options
Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme (ESOS)
To align the interests of Executives with those 
of shareholders. 
A tax-advantaged executive share option scheme under which options 
may be granted to Executives periodically up to a maximum total value 
set by HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”). Once options have vested 
they must be exercised before the tenth anniversary of grant.
Executives may be issued and hold share options up to 
the current maximum value set by HMRC of £30,000 
at any one time.
ESOS options vest when growth in EPS adjusted 
principally to exclude exceptional items (“Adjusted EPS”) 
exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over the three-year 
performance period. The Committee is authorised to 
make appropriate amendments to Adjusted EPS.
No change.
Senior Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme (SESOS)
A non-tax-advantaged executive share option scheme under which 
options were granted to Executives but which has now expired.
The maximum benefit granted to Executives under the 
SESOS was 20% of salary per annum.
SESOS options vest at 40% (minimum) when growth in 
Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over 
the three-year performance period. Maximum vesting 
(100% of grant) occurs when growth in Adjusted EPS 
exceeds inflation by 21% over the three-year period.
The performance targets and restrictions are considered  
to be a realistic test of management performance and 
were chosen because they are consistent with corporate 
profit growth objectives and ensure that options only 
become exercisable against the background of a 
sustained real increase in the financial performance  
of the Group.
No change.
Save As You 
Earn Share 
Option Scheme 
(SAYE scheme)
All employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. with at least one year’s 
service in July in any year are eligible under this tax-advantaged scheme 
to receive options to subscribe for 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares at a discount 
of 20% on the prevailing market price at the time of the grant having 
entered into a three or five-year savings contract for the exercise price.
Under the SAYE Scheme rules eligible employees may 
agree to save up to £250 per month over a period of 
three or five years and then purchase shares within six 
months of the end of the term.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets 
in SAYE schemes.
The current SAYE Scheme expires 
in July this year and a resolution 
for the adoption of a new SAYE 
Scheme will be put forward  
at the forthcoming Annual  
General Meeting.
Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP)
All employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. with at least five months’ 
service in November in any year are eligible under this tax-advantaged 
scheme to receive free 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares in December of that 
year. Shares are held by the SIP Trustees for a minimum of three years 
and a maximum of five years before being available to be passed 
to participants.
Shares are awarded based on length of service and base 
salary. The maximum value of the shares allowable under 
the Scheme is £3,000 in any one year.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets 
in SIPs.
No change.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  45
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview  
Element
Purpose – how the element supports the short and 
long-term strategic objectives of the Company
 
Operation
 
Opportunity
Performance measures 
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions 
for malus and clawback (if any)
Long-Term  
Incentive  
Plan (LTIP)
To reward the efforts of Executives in line with the 
Company’s objective of creating shareholder value 
and increasing EPS in the longer term.
The rules of the LTIP allow for discretionary annual awards of ‘A’ (listed), 
and ‘B’ and ‘C’ (unlisted) ordinary shares. Grants are calculated by 
reference to the middle market quotation at close the day before. In all 
cases shares will vest, subject to performance criteria being attained, 
within 72 days of the publication of results for the last financial year in 
the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the Adjusted EPS 
performance condition has been met using the EPS information which 
is published in the Group’s Annual Reports and Accounts. BDO LLP 
confirms the level of vesting of awards based on EPS calculations 
provided by the Group.
The maximum value of shares for which an award may 
be made to an Executive in any financial year is 1 10% 
of salary and will vary depending on seniority. 
Actual vesting will depend on how well the Company 
performs against the LTIP’s performance conditions.
To assess the awards, the average growth in Adjusted 
EPS is compared with the growth in inflation over the 
performance period. The performance period covers 
three financial years starting from the start of the financial 
year in which the award is made. No vesting occurs if the 
Adjusted EPS growth fails to exceed the RPI by at least 
9%. 40% of the award vests if the target is hit and there is 
a sliding scale above that point. For 100% of an award 
of shares to vest, growth in Adjusted EPS needs to exceed 
the growth in RPI by 24% or more over the period. The 
Committee feels that since underlying long term freehold 
property growth is not being included in the calculation, 
9% over inflation is a testing target, and one that merits 
a 40% vesting level. The Committee further believes that 
the 40% vesting threshold at 9% in excess of inflation is 
triggering vesting at a value that is still below that being 
employed by many other companies and that it is the 
value of the vest that should be considered and not the 
percentage. Please see the graph on page 56 for 
further details.
No change.
Pension To provide Directors with long-term pension provisions  
on a competitive basis.
The Company operates a variety of pension benefits. Executives 
are either deferred members of the defined benefit Company pension 
plan – now closed to future accruals – or the Company’s defined 
contribution stakeholder pension plan, or receive a salary supplement  
or a mixture of these. Further details are available on page 52 of 
this report.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Main section:
Until closure, accrued at 1.7% of basic salary less lower 
earnings limit (up to a pensions cap) per year of service. 
Additional salary supplement of 17 .5% paid over the 
earnings cap. This applied only to Simon Emeny.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Directors’ section:
Richard Fuller withdrew from this scheme on 31 March 
2014 and now receives a salary supplement of 17 .5% 
of his salary for use in his retirement planning.
Pension contributions: For the other Executives the 
Company will contribute a total of 17 .5% of the 
Executive’s salary to the defined contribution Company 
pension plan and/or their nominated pension scheme 
or pay a salary supplement for them to use as part of 
their retirement planning subject to the Executive making 
a net contribution of 8% themselves.
Not applicable. The Company’s defined benefit 
pension plan closed to future 
accruals from January 2015. 
Simon Emeny was the only  
Executive still in this scheme  
and was offered a salary 
supplement of 17 .5% of salary  
in line with other Executives 
not in that scheme.
Malus and 
Clawback
The malus and clawback provisions act as a disincentive  
to overstate the metrics that determine the rewards the 
Executive Directors receive.
These were introduced last year to the bonus scheme and to LTIP 
awards made from last year. They will enable the Committee not to  
pay bonuses or allow LTIP awards to vest where misconduct occurs 
during the relevant financial year or before a bonus is paid or an LTIP 
award vests. They will also enable the Committee to recover bonuses  
or awards where it is discovered that the Company materially misstated 
its results for the last whole financial year or a material error was made 
in assessing the relevant performance conditions.
The malus and clawback principles apply to the bonuses 
that may be paid from 2015 onwards and option grants 
made from 2014 onwards.
Not applicable. No change.
Non-Executive Directors
Basic and  
Additional  
Fees
To attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors  
by offering market competitive fee levels that recognise  
the time that the Non-Executive Directors commit to their 
various roles.
The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration 
Committee.
The fees paid to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined 
by the Chairman and the Executive Committee.
Fees may be paid for specific duties such as the fee paid to 
Sir James Fuller for his work in liaising with family shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in bonus schemes, share 
options or LTIPs. None of the Non-Executive Directors are members 
of any Group pension scheme, with the exception of Michael Turner, 
who is a pensioner of the Directors section of the defined benefit 
Company pension plan.
All Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee. 
The Senior Independent Director receives a fee for 
that role and there are additional fees for chairing 
and being a member of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees and other specific roles.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees are not usually reviewed 
every year but at periods of two to three years when 
market data on the level of fees is consulted.
There are no specific measures set but appraisals 
are carried out as explained in the Corporate 
Governance report on pages 38 to 42.
The fees were reviewed in January 
2015 as they had last been 
reviewed in January 2013.
The basic fee increased by 5.13%. 
The fee for the chairmanship of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees 
increased by 1 1.1% and 16.67% 
respectively. The fee for the 
Senior Independent Director 
increased by 12.5%.
Benefits To encourage Non-Executive Directors to keep  
up to date with the Company’s product range  
and to reimburse expenses.
Non-Executive Directors receive a modest product allowance and are 
entitled to buy additional products at cost plus VAT. They are reimbursed 
for travel and other business related expenses. 
The Chairman, Michael Turner, also benefits from life insurance cover 
and private medical insurance.
Product allowances are reviewed from time to time  
but not typically increased every year.
Not applicable. None.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
46  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 46  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  
Element
Purpose – how the element supports the short and 
long-term strategic objectives of the Company
 
Operation
 
Opportunity
Performance measures 
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions 
for malus and clawback (if any)
Long-Term  
Incentive  
Plan (LTIP)
To reward the efforts of Executives in line with the 
Company’s objective of creating shareholder value 
and increasing EPS in the longer term.
The rules of the LTIP allow for discretionary annual awards of ‘A’ (listed), 
and ‘B’ and ‘C’ (unlisted) ordinary shares. Grants are calculated by 
reference to the middle market quotation at close the day before. In all 
cases shares will vest, subject to performance criteria being attained, 
within 72 days of the publication of results for the last financial year in 
the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the Adjusted EPS 
performance condition has been met using the EPS information which 
is published in the Group’s Annual Reports and Accounts. BDO LLP 
confirms the level of vesting of awards based on EPS calculations 
provided by the Group.
The maximum value of shares for which an award may 
be made to an Executive in any financial year is 1 10% 
of salary and will vary depending on seniority. 
Actual vesting will depend on how well the Company 
performs against the LTIP’s performance conditions.
To assess the awards, the average growth in Adjusted 
EPS is compared with the growth in inflation over the 
performance period. The performance period covers 
three financial years starting from the start of the financial 
year in which the award is made. No vesting occurs if the 
Adjusted EPS growth fails to exceed the RPI by at least 
9%. 40% of the award vests if the target is hit and there is 
a sliding scale above that point. For 100% of an award 
of shares to vest, growth in Adjusted EPS needs to exceed 
the growth in RPI by 24% or more over the period. The 
Committee feels that since underlying long term freehold 
property growth is not being included in the calculation, 
9% over inflation is a testing target, and one that merits 
a 40% vesting level. The Committee further believes that 
the 40% vesting threshold at 9% in excess of inflation is 
triggering vesting at a value that is still below that being 
employed by many other companies and that it is the 
value of the vest that should be considered and not the 
percentage. Please see the graph on page 56 for 
further details.
No change.
Pension To provide Directors with long-term pension provisions  
on a competitive basis.
The Company operates a variety of pension benefits. Executives 
are either deferred members of the defined benefit Company pension 
plan – now closed to future accruals – or the Company’s defined 
contribution stakeholder pension plan, or receive a salary supplement  
or a mixture of these. Further details are available on page 52 of 
this report.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Main section:
Until closure, accrued at 1.7% of basic salary less lower 
earnings limit (up to a pensions cap) per year of service. 
Additional salary supplement of 17 .5% paid over the 
earnings cap. This applied only to Simon Emeny.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Directors’ section:
Richard Fuller withdrew from this scheme on 31 March 
2014 and now receives a salary supplement of 17 .5% 
of his salary for use in his retirement planning.
Pension contributions: For the other Executives the 
Company will contribute a total of 17 .5% of the 
Executive’s salary to the defined contribution Company 
pension plan and/or their nominated pension scheme 
or pay a salary supplement for them to use as part of 
their retirement planning subject to the Executive making 
a net contribution of 8% themselves.
Not applicable. The Company’s defined benefit 
pension plan closed to future 
accruals from January 2015. 
Simon Emeny was the only  
Executive still in this scheme  
and was offered a salary 
supplement of 17 .5% of salary  
in line with other Executives 
not in that scheme.
Malus and 
Clawback
The malus and clawback provisions act as a disincentive  
to overstate the metrics that determine the rewards the 
Executive Directors receive.
These were introduced last year to the bonus scheme and to LTIP 
awards made from last year. They will enable the Committee not to  
pay bonuses or allow LTIP awards to vest where misconduct occurs 
during the relevant financial year or before a bonus is paid or an LTIP 
award vests. They will also enable the Committee to recover bonuses  
or awards where it is discovered that the Company materially misstated 
its results for the last whole financial year or a material error was made 
in assessing the relevant performance conditions.
The malus and clawback principles apply to the bonuses 
that may be paid from 2015 onwards and option grants 
made from 2014 onwards.
Not applicable. No change.
Non-Executive Directors
Basic and  
Additional  
Fees
To attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors  
by offering market competitive fee levels that recognise  
the time that the Non-Executive Directors commit to their 
various roles.
The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration 
Committee.
The fees paid to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined 
by the Chairman and the Executive Committee.
Fees may be paid for specific duties such as the fee paid to 
Sir James Fuller for his work in liaising with family shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in bonus schemes, share 
options or LTIPs. None of the Non-Executive Directors are members 
of any Group pension scheme, with the exception of Michael Turner, 
who is a pensioner of the Directors section of the defined benefit 
Company pension plan.
All Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee. 
The Senior Independent Director receives a fee for 
that role and there are additional fees for chairing 
and being a member of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees and other specific roles.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees are not usually reviewed 
every year but at periods of two to three years when 
market data on the level of fees is consulted.
There are no specific measures set but appraisals 
are carried out as explained in the Corporate 
Governance report on pages 38 to 42.
The fees were reviewed in January 
2015 as they had last been 
reviewed in January 2013.
The basic fee increased by 5.13%. 
The fee for the chairmanship of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees 
increased by 1 1.1% and 16.67% 
respectively. The fee for the 
Senior Independent Director 
increased by 12.5%.
Benefits To encourage Non-Executive Directors to keep  
up to date with the Company’s product range  
and to reimburse expenses.
Non-Executive Directors receive a modest product allowance and are 
entitled to buy additional products at cost plus VAT. They are reimbursed 
for travel and other business related expenses. 
The Chairman, Michael Turner, also benefits from life insurance cover 
and private medical insurance.
Product allowances are reviewed from time to time  
but not typically increased every year.
Not applicable. None.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  47
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview 0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
504
100% 47%
17%
36%
40%
23%
37%
1,063
1,273
£000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
265
100% 50%
17%
33%
42%
24%
34%
535
636
£000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
227
100% 53% 44%
25%
31%
18%
29%
527
627
£000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
229
100% 51%
17%
32%
42%
24%
34%
455
543
£000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
356
100% 45%
16%
39%
38%
22%
40%
786
944
£000
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Company
The Committee is advised of the proposed annual pay review for staff in advance of them considering the proposed pay reviews for Directors, so that this can   be taken into account when determining Directors’ remuneration for the relevant financial year. Salary increases will ordinarily be (in percentage terms) in line   with those of the wider workforce, and significant variances would only be expected where there had been a significant change in an individual’s responsibilities  or a market review had been conducted which suggested that an individual’s salary was no longer competitive, or where the Committee wanted to take   account of an individual’s performance or experience. The Committee would also be advised if there were any other key changes to the terms and conditions   on which staff are employed.   Consideration of Employee Views
The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay or in drawing up the Remuneration Policy but does receive periodic updates   from the Personnel Director. Share ownership amongst the Company’s employees is encouraged through the SAYE Scheme and SIP. These tax-advantaged   schemes allow employees to participate as shareholders and align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Consideration of Shareholder Views
Shareholder views are sought when there is any significant change to Directors’ remuneration. Should shareholders have any concerns about the Remuneration  Policy, the Committee Chairman would endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
Discretion Employed by the Committee 
The Committee will operate the annual bonus, the LTIP, the ESOS and SESOS, in accordance with their applicable rules and in accordance with the Listing   and Disclosure Rules where relevant. The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration   of these schemes. These include, but are not limited to, routine matters such as who participates in them, the timing of awards and vests, the size of awards/
pay-outs, the determination of vesting, and the setting and application of targets. Other non-routine matters where the Committee may need to use its   discretion include but are not limited to making adjustments to targets and/or pay-outs when there has been a change in accounting policy, making adjustments  required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group, determination of the treatment of leavers and adjustments required in certain   circumstances such as rights issues and corporate restructuring events. Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual   Remuneration Report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders.
Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy
A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, particularly at maximum performance levels. The following charts demonstrate the key   elements of the remuneration package for the Executives under the Remuneration Policy for the year ended 28 March 2015:
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
1
    ‘Fixed’ includes salary, benefits and pension.
2
    ‘Bonus’ includes Executive Bonus scheme.
3
    ‘LTIP/Options’ includes LTIP, ESOS and SESOS schemes.
Chief Executive
Managing Director – The Fuller’s Beer Company Managing Director – Fuller’s Inns
Corporate Affairs Director Finance Director
Fixed
1
Bonus
2
LTIP/Options
3
48  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 48  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 In illustrating the potential reward the following assumptions have been made:
Minimum performance – fixed remuneration only with no pay-out under the bonus scheme or LTIP/share options.
In line with expectation – this is based on what Executives could receive if bonuses pay out at 60% of the maximum bonus allowance (i.e. 45% of salary) for   achieving target performance, LTIP pay-out at 80% of maximum vesting, pay-out under the ESOS at 100% and pay-out under the SESOS at 90%.   Maximum – 100% of the bonus (i.e. 75% of salary) and 100% of LTIP awards and Executive and Senior are realised.
Recruitment and Promotion
The Company wishes to attract talented individuals to Executive positions either from the industry/market or from internal succession. It would not expect   any new Director to receive salary or any other part of their remuneration package that is more than 50% higher than current maximum payments which   could be received by the previous role holder. The various components of the package for a new Executive are those already on offer to existing Executives as   set out in the table above and they are salary, benefits, bonuses, share schemes and pension. The approach to each component is as set out in the tables on   pages 44 to 47, subject to existing rule constraints. Contracts would be offered on the basis that on early termination a payment equal to the salary due for   the unexpired period of their notice would be made, payable in monthly instalments. For the period of their notice the Executive would be expected to seek   alternative income, and if they are successful, that income would be notifiable to the Company and would be set off against the remaining instalments. The   Company is only likely to offer a cash amount on recruitment, payment of which may be staggered, to reflect the value of benefits a new recruit may have   received from a former employer. Relocation expenses and accommodation might be provided if necessary.
In respect of Non-Executive Directors, the Company would not expect any new Director to receive fees that are more than 50% higher than the fees which   could be received by the previous role-holder.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and   the fees paid to existing Non-Executive Directors.
Service Contracts/Payments on Loss of Office 
Executive Directors have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one year’s notice served by the Company or Director.   Ian Bray and Jonathon Swaine are entitled on early termination of their contracts to a payment equal to the salary due for the unexpired period of their notice.   This is payable in monthly instalments and for the period of their notice these Executives are expected to seek alternative income, and if they are successful,   that income must be notified to the Company and will be set off against the remaining instalments.   The contracts of the other Executives (which were all in place before 27 June 2012 and are different from those that would be offered to any new Executives   and are therefore not in line with the approach to recruitment remuneration as set out above) state that they are entitled to a payment equal to salary and the   value of all benefits for the unexpired period of their notice, without any reduction for mitigation. Benefits in kind would be valued with reference to their P11D   value or cost to the Company. Pension benefits would be valued on a transfer value basis to be calculated and confirmed by the Company’s pension advisors.   The Committee has considered whether they should attempt to negotiate a change to the contracts of these Executives but do not believe that this is   currently appropriate.
The rules of the bonus scheme and LTIP and other share option schemes set out what happens to awards if a participant ceases to be employed before the   end of a bonus year or performance period. Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse on such cessation, except in certain circumstances when a   Director might be deemed a “good leaver” which could include on redundancy or retirement (these are examples and are not intended to be a definitive list).   In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which bonuses, awards and share options vest or become   exercisable, and/or a pro-rated bonus is due, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individual’s departure and his performance.
Service Contracts and Fee Letters
The obligations contained in the Executives’ service contracts are described in the section entitled “Service Contracts/Payments on Loss of Office”.
Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period
Simon Emeny 13 January 1999 12 months
James Douglas 31 July 2007 12 months
Richard Fuller 8 December 2009 12 months
Ian Bray 12 December 2011 12 months
Jonathon Swaine 20 March 2012 12 months
Non-Executive Directors
Date of letter of appointment
or re-appointment Term expires
Michael Turner 1 July 2013 June 2016
John Dunsmore 15 November 2011 January 2018 *
Sir James Fuller 1 June 2010 May 2016
Lynn Fordham 15 November 2011 January 2018*
Alastair Kerr 19 July 2011 August 2015
*    Subject to approval of the re-appointment by the Board of Directors during the period at the Annual General Meeting.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  49
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview 0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
24.0%
23.0%
22.0%
21.0%
20.0%
19.0%
18.0%
17.0%
16.0%
15.0%
14.0%
13.0%
12.0%
11.0%
10.0%
9.0%
<9.0%
Extent to which the percentage growth in Adjusted EPS
exceeds the increase in RPI over the performance period
Percentage 
of shares 
comprised in an 
award to be 
released
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report 
The information on pages 50 to 56 has been audited.
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors and the members are currently Alastair Kerr (Chairman), John Dunsmore   and Lynn Fordham. The Chairman of the Company, Michael Turner, and the Chief Executive, Simon Emeny, are invited to attend the Committee meetings   and to advise, where appropriate, on the remuneration and performance of the Executive Directors and related matters. The Committee is advised internally   by the Company Secretary, Séverine Garnham, who also acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee’s terms of reference state that the Committee is responsible for determining the total remuneration package (including pensions, service   agreements and termination payments) of the Executive Directors. The Committee also reviews the remuneration of the Company’s divisional directors in   consultation with the Chief Executive. Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest in the Company, other than as shareholders and Directors.   The Committee’s Advisors
Xafinity Consulting Limited provides the Committee and the Company with advice on matters relating to pensions. BDO LLP provides the Committee   and the Company with advice in connection with the Company’s LTIP and share option schemes and other remuneration matters. Both of these consultants   have been providing advice to the Company for some years and were not specifically appointed by the Committee. Xafinity Consulting Limited is authorised   and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and its actuaries are also separately required to abide by Actuarial Profession Standards which include the   requirement for it to provide objective and independent advice. BDO abides by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires them to   provide objective and independent advice. Other advisors did not charge fees for services provided in respect of Directors’ remuneration during the year.
Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the Current Financial Year
The Executive Directors’ salaries with effect from 1 June 2015 are:
Simon Emeny – £410,000
James Douglas – £286,000
Richard Fuller – £177,500
Ian Bray – £211,000
Jonathon Swaine – £220,000
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees were reviewed in January 2015 and changes were effective from 1 January 2015.
The annual bonus for the financial year 2015/2016 will operate on the same basis as the previous financial year and will be consistent with the policy detailed   in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy above. As explained on page 45 the Company does not publish bonus targets since these are considered commercially   sensitive. However, details of other performance measures which will operate are given on page 45 and details of the relative weightings of each are given on   page 52.   The awards under the LTIP are expected to be made at 110% of salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 82.5% for the other Executives. The LTIP  awards for the financial year 2015/2016 are subject to the following performance condition:
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
LTIP Awards
50  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 50  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table
The following table shows a breakdown of the remuneration of individual Directors who served in all or part of the year:
Salary/Fees Taxable benefits
1
Annual bonus
2
LTIP/Options
3
Pensions
4
Total
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Michael Turner
5
250 288 25 24 – 61 – 363 – – 275 736
Simon Emeny 383 365 25 22 223 213 512 288 101 89 1,244 977
James Douglas 279 270 22 22 163 159 407 233 49 47 920 731
Richard Fuller 173 170 22 21 81 74 201 122 30 50 507 437
Ian Bray 210 206 22 21 97 89 209 – 37 35 575 351
Jonathon Swaine 196 177 22 21 121 103 238 47 34 31 611 379
John Dunsmore 58 57 – – – – – – – – 58 57
Sir James Fuller 45 44 1 1 – – – – – – 46 45
Lynn Fordham 59 58 – 1 – – – – – – 59 59
Alastair Kerr 56 55 1 1 – – – – – – 57 56
1
    Taxable benefits include car allowances, product allowances and health cover.
2
    Bonus refers to the annual bonus scheme based on performance in the period under review and the value of free shares awarded under the SIP (£3,000).
3
       LTIP/Options includes the value transferred to Directors from the LTIP, ESOS, SESOS and SAYE Schemes. Benefit is calculated as the share price at the year end less the exercise price multiplied by   the number of vested options. Options are considered to have vested if substantially all of the performance criteria have been met in the financial year, in which case the number of vested options is   estimated based on performance against performance measures. The table below sets out how the award is linked to performance of the Group.
4
       Pensions includes benefit transferred on defined contribution and defined benefit schemes. Refer to “Total Pension Entitlement” section below for detail on individual Directors’ pension   entitlements. Benefit transferred on defined benefit pension entitlement is equivalent to the increase in accrued pension as at 28 March 2015 (excluding an increase for inflation) multiplied by 20.
5
    Michael Turner became Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2013. Michael Turner reached retirement age on 12 June 2011 and thereafter was drawing his pension and so accrues no further benefit.
The following table shows how variable pay elements are linked to the performance of the Group in 2015:
Target set
Performance measure Minimum Maximum Value of award
Actual
performance
Value
of award
LTIP EPS vs RPI
EPS exceeds
RPI by + 9%
EPS exceeds
RPI by +24%
% vest of original grant
1
:
Minimum – 40%
Maximum – 100% 23.7%
96% of
maximum
award
Senior Executive Share 
Options EPS vs RPI
EPS exceeds
RPI by + 9%
EPS exceeds
RPI by +21%
% vest of original grant
2
:
Minimum – 40%
Maximum – 100% 23.7%
100% of
maximum
award
1
    Maximum grant equates to 100% of salary.
2
    Maximum grant equates to 20% of salary.
Percentage Change in Remuneration of Chief Executive 
The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive compared to that of the average of all of the Group’s employees   taken as a whole between the financial years ended 29 March 2014 and 28 March 2015:
Chief Executive Employees
Change in annual salary 4.9% 2.5%
Change in taxable benefits 13.6% 0%
Change in annual bonus
1
 (0.5)% 1.9% 
1
       The ‘Change in annual bonus’ reflects the increase or decrease in the percentage of annual salary paid out as bonus and excludes the value of free shares awarded under the SIP. The employee comparator   group excludes hourly paid pub staff who receive bonus incentives through tips via a tronc system as opposed to other bonus incentive schemes.
Salary 
The Committee sets the base salary for each Executive Director by reference to individual and corporate performance, competitive market practice and   independent salary survey information. Last year, base pay was increased by approximately 3% for all Directors. This was broadly in line with the median of   increases paid to head office staff.   External Directorship Fees
The Board may give approval for Executives to have one non-executive role and to retain any related fees paid. Simon Emeny is the Senior Independent   Non-Executive Director of Dunelm Group plc. He retains fees of £50,000 per annum in respect of this position.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  51
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Bonus
Actual performance against targets is shown above. Performance measures for the annual bonus were weighted for each Director as follows:
Group
profit
Fuller’s Beer
Company
profit
Fuller’s Inns
profit
Simon Emeny 100% – –
James Douglas 100% – –
Richard Fuller 60% 40% –
Ian Bray 60% 40% –
Jonathon Swaine 60% – 40%
For the year under review, Simon Emeny and James Douglas each earned a bonus of 57% of salary, Ian Bray and Richard Fuller each earned a bonus of 45% of   salary and Jonathon Swaine earned a bonus of 60% of salary.
Total Pension Entitlements
Michael Turner is a pensioner of the defined benefit Company pension plan, under the Directors’ section.   Richard Fuller became a deferred member of the defined benefit Company pension plan, under the Directors’ section, on 31 March 2014 when he withdrew   from the plan. He is in receipt of a 17.5% salary supplement in lieu of employer’s pension contribution. Richard Fuller has confirmed that he will use his   supplement as part of his retirement planning. With effect from 1 April 2015, he opted to draw his pension benefits early under the defined benefit Company   pension plan.   Simon Emeny became a deferred member of the defined benefit Company pension plan, under the Main section when the plan closed to future accruals on   1st January 2015. Prior to closure, he received a salary supplement of 17.5% of the excess of his base salary over the earnings cap for use as part of his retirement   planning. Following closure of the defined benefit Company pension plan to future accruals from January 2015, Simon Emeny is in receipt of a 17.5% salary   supplement in lieu of contributions to a pension plan, which he is expected to use as part of his retirement planning.   The details of pensions accrued under the defined benefit scheme as at 28 March 2015 were:   Increase in accrued pension
(allowing for inflation)
1
£
Total accrued pension
at end of year
2
£ Normal retirement date
Additional pension accrued
upon early retirement
£
Simon Emeny 2,497 26,767 62 –
Richard Fuller 2,524 96,081 62 –
1
       Increase in accrued pension (allowing for inflation) – this is the accrued pension at the year-end less the accrued pension at the start of the year adjusted for inflation over the year.   2
       Total accrued pension at end of year or retirement age date if earlier – this is what the Director is entitled to receive as an annual pension based on service to date.   James Douglas is paid a contribution of 17.5% of his salary by the Company which he is required to use as part of his overall retirement planning. He is also required   to contribute 8% of his net salary to his pension or another investment vehicle.
The Company makes a contribution of 17.5% of salary to Ian Bray and Jonathon Swaine’s nominated pension schemes. They are also required to make contributions   of 8% themselves.   Scheme Interests Awarded During the Financial Year
In respect of the 52 week period ended 28 March 2015 the following LTIPs, Share Options and SIP awards were granted:
Director Scheme
Number of
A shares
Number of
B shares
Exercise price
per A share
Exercise price
per B share
Face
value at
grant/award
Date of
grant/award
Performance
period ends
% of award/
grant vesting
at minimum
threshold
Simon Emeny LTIP 35,108 87,772 £9.65 £0.965 £423,492 30/06/2014 29/06/2017 40%
SIP 309 – £9.69 – £2,994 04/12/2014 n/a n/a
Total 35,417 87,772 £426,486
James Douglas LTIP 25,533 63,834 £9.65 £0.965 £307,993 30/06/2014 29/06/2017 40%
SAYE 1,204 – £7.47 – £8,994 01/09/2014 01/09/2017 100%
SIP 309 – £9.69 – £2,994 04/12/2014 n/a n/a
Total 27,046 63,834 £319,981
Richard Fuller LTIP 11,900 29,751 £9.65 £0.965 £143,545 30/06/2014 29/06/2017 40%
ESOS 2,588 – £9.65 – £24,974 30/06/2014 30/06/2017 n/a
SAYE 401 – £7.47 – £2,995 01/09/2014 01/09/2017 100%
SIP 309 – £9.69 – £2,994 04/12/2014 n/a n/a
Total 15,198 29,751 £174,508
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
52  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 52  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Director Scheme
Number of
A shares
Number of
B shares
Exercise price
per A share
Exercise price
per B share
Face
value at
grant/award
Date of
grant/award
Performance
period ends
% of award/
grant vesting
at minimum
threshold
Ian Bray LTIP 14,431 36,077 £9.65 £0.965 £174,073 30/06/2014 29/06/2017 40%
SAYE 722 – £7.47 – £5,393 01/09/2014 01/09/2017 100%
SIP 309 – £9.69 – £2,994 04/12/2014 n/a n/a
Total 15,462 36,077 £182,460
Jonathon Swaine LTIP 13,678 34,196 £9.65 £0.965 £164,992 30/06/2014 29/06/2017 40%
SIP 309 – £9.69 – £2,994 04/12/2014 n/a n/a
Total 13,987 34,196 £167,986
1
       Face values have been calculated using the actual grant prices also shown in the table except for SAYE. For the SAYE Scheme this is based on an average price for the three days before grant   (shown above) although options are granted at a 20% discount.
2
       Executives may be awarded up to 20% of their salary through the tax-advantaged Executive Share Option Scheme and – until its expiry – the non-tax-advantaged Senior Executive Share Option   Scheme. Under the former scheme only options worth £30,000 may be held at any time.
Share Scheme Interests Outstanding at the Year End
Shares
The Company has Share Ownership Guidelines for Directors which state that Executives should hold shares worth at least 100% of their salary. Accordingly   Executives are required to retain:
a)  All shares they hold in the SIP
b)  All shares they acquire as a result of exercising SAYE options
c)  All shares that they acquire as a result of exercising options under the tax-advantaged Executive Share Option Scheme net of the cost of those options
d)    At least 75% of any shares that they acquire as a result of exercising options under the non-tax-advantaged Senior Executive Share Option Scheme net of   the cost of those options and the costs of settling related tax and NI thereon   e)  At least 75% of any post-tax and NI vested shares under the LTIP until their guideline is met.   All of the Executive Directors’ shareholdings already meet the guideline with the exception of Ian Bray who joined the Company in 2011.
Directors’ Shareholdings
Directors’ Share Interests
Beneficial
Interest at
28 March
2015
Non-beneficial
Interest
at 28 March
2015
Beneficial
Interest at
29 March
2014
Non-beneficial
Interest at
29 March
2014
Michael Turner
A ordinary 40p shares 271,378 – 271,378 –
B ordinary 4p shares 2,988,394 – 2,988,394 –
C ordinary 40p shares 624,260 – 624,260 –
2nd Preference £1 shares 71 – 71 –
Simon Emeny
A ordinary 40p shares 98,730 – 95,421 –
B ordinary 4p shares 738,883 – 677,208 –
James Douglas
A ordinary 40p shares 48,449 – 40,501 –
B ordinary 4p shares 178,583 – 132,005 –
Richard Fuller
A ordinary 40p shares 8,106 500,000 6,996 500,000
B ordinary 4p shares 3,253,744 10,935,015 3,351,606 10,935,015
C ordinary 40p shares 25,000 – 25,000 –
2nd Preference £1 shares 303 – 303 –
Ian Bray
A ordinary 40p shares 2,266 – 1,957 –
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  53
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Directors’ Share Interests
Beneficial
Interest at
28 March
2015
Non-beneficial
Interest
at 28 March
2015
Beneficial
Interest at
29 March
2014
Non-beneficial
Interest at
29 March
2014
Jonathon Swaine
A ordinary 40p shares 18,827 – 14,934 –
B ordinary 4p shares 62,688 – 52,461 –
John Dunsmore
A ordinary 40p shares 23,305 – 23,305 –
Sir James Fuller
A ordinary 40p shares 88,942 – 88,942 –
B ordinary 4p shares 9,143,952 – 9,143,952 –
C ordinary 40p shares 2,702,003 – 2,702,003 –
Lynn Fordham
A ordinary 40p shares 13,098 – 3,182 –
Alastair Kerr
A ordinary 40p shares 3,941 – 3,941 –
There were no changes in the beneficial interests of any director to 27 May 2015.
Director’s Share Options
Director Scheme
As at
29 March
2014 Exercised Lapsed Granted
As at
28 March
2015
Exercise
price
Date of
grant
Exercisable
from
Expiry
date
Price at
exercise
date
Simon Emeny SESOS 2,007 (2,007) – – – £4.98 18/07/06 18/07/09 18/07/16 £9.72
SESOS 4,285 (4,285) – – – £7.51 18/07/07 18/07/10 18/07/17 £9.72
SESOS 9,990 (9,990) – – – £4.05 15/07/08 15/07/11 15/07/18 £9.72
SESOS 9,916 (9,916) – – – £4.80 16/07/09 16/07/12 16/07/19 £9.72
SESOS 5,190 – – – 5,190 £5.78 12/07/10 12/07/13 12/07/20
SAYE 2,530 – – – 2,530 £4.64 01/09/10 01/09/15 01/03/16
SESOS 515 – – – 515 £6.30 30/11/10 30/11/13 30/11/20
SESOS 9,139 – (2,742) – 6,397 £7.09 20/07/11 20/07/14 19/07/21
SESOS 9,446 – – – 9,446 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 11/07/22
ESOS 3,296 – – – 3,296 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 01/07/23
SESOS 4,945 – – – 4,945 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 01/07/23
SAYE 497 – – – 497 £7.24 01/09/13 01/09/18 01/03/19
Total 61,756 (26,198) (2,742) – 32,816
James Douglas SESOS 2,391 – – – 2,391 £4.05 15/07/08 15/07/11 15/07/18
SESOS 8,625 – – – 8,625 £4.80 16/07/09 16/07/12 16/07/19
SESOS 4,504 – – – 4,504 £5.78 12/07/10 12/07/13 12/07/20
SESOS 628 – – – 628 £6.30 30/11/10 30/11/13 30/11/20
SESOS 7,277 – (2,183) – 5,094 £7.09 20/07/11 20/07/14 19/07/21
SESOS 7,517 – – – 7,517 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 11/07/22
SESOS 2,659 – – – 2,659 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 01/07/23
ESOS 3,296 – – – 3,296 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 30/06/23
SAYE – – – 1,204 1,204 £7.47 01/09/14 01/09/17 01/03/18
Total 36,897 – (2,183) 1,204 35,918
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
54  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 54  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Director Scheme
As at
29 March
2014 Exercised Lapsed Granted
As at
28 March
2015
Exercise
price
Date of
grant
Exercisable
from
Expiry
date
Price at
exercise
date
Richard Fuller SAYE 801 (801) – – – £3.88 01/09/09 01/09/14 01/03/15 £9.41
SESOS 2,592 – – – 2,592 £5.78 12/07/10 12/07/13 12/07/20
ESOS 869 – – – 869 12/07/10 12/07/13 12/07/20
SAYE 665 – – – 665 £4.64 01/09/10 01/09/15 01/03/16
SESOS 4,612 – (1,384) – 3,228 £7.09 20/07/11 20/07/14 19/07/21
SAYE 563 – – – 563 £5.47 01/09/11 01/09/16 01/03/17
SESOS 4,765 – – – 4,765 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 11/07/22
SESOS 3,747 – – – 3,747 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 01/07/23
SAYE 828 – – – 828 £7.24 01/09/13 01/09/18 01/03/19
ESOS – – – 2,588 2,588 £9.65 30/06/14 30/06/17 30/06/24
SAYE – – – 401 401 £7.47 01/09/14 01/09/19 01/03/20
Total 19,442 (801) (1,384) 2,989 20,246
Ian Bray SESOS 1,503 – – – 1,503 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 11/07/22
ESOS 4,255 – – – 4,255 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 12/07/22
SESOS 4,549 – – – 4,549 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 01/07/23
SAYE 497 – – – 497 £7.24 01/09/13 01/09/16 01/03/17
SAYE – – – 722 722 £7.47 01/09/14 01/09/17 01/03/18
Total 10,804 – – 722 11,526
Jonathon Swaine SAYE 1,649 (1,649) – – – £5.47 01/09/11 01/09/14 01/03/15 £9.30
SESOS 709 – – – 709 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 11/07/22
ESOS 4,255 – – – 4,255 £7.05 12/07/12 12/07/15 12/07/22
SESOS 3,901 – – – 3,901 £9.10 01/07/13 01/07/16 01/07/23
Total 10,514 (1,649) – – 8,865
TOTAL 139,413 (28,648) (6,309) 4,915 109,371
Note: The Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS), Savings-related share option scheme (SAYE) and Share Incentive Plan (SIP) are all tax-advantaged share option scheme. The Senior Executive Share   Option Scheme (SESOS) is not a tax-advantaged share option scheme.     Vested but unexercised options
Directors’ Long Term Incentive Plan Allocations
Director
Total at
29 March
2014
Awarded
during the
year
Vested
during the
year
Lapsed
during the
year
Total held at
28 March
2015
Monetary
value of vest
£000*
Simon Emeny
A ordinary 40p shares 107,312 35,108 (23,397) (13,161) 105,862 223
B ordinary 4p shares 268,281 87,772 (58,493) (32,903) 264,657 56
James Douglas
A ordinary 40p shares 83,005 25,533 (18,631) (10,480) 79,427 177
B ordinary 4p shares 207,515 63,834 (46,578) (26,200) 198,571 45
Richard Fuller
A ordinary 40p shares 39,374 11,900 (8,855) (4,981) 37,438 85
B ordinary 4p shares 98,438 29,751 (22,138) (12,452) 93,599 22
Ian Bray
A ordinary 40p shares 30,924 14,431 – – 45,355 –
B ordinary 4p shares 77,311 36,077 – – 113,388 –
Jonathon Swaine
A ordinary 40p shares 32,988 13,678 (4,091) (2,301) 40,274 39
B ordinary 4p shares 82,472 34,196 (10,227) (5,753) 100,688 10
*    The market price of ‘A’ ordinary shares on 30 July 2014 for the LTIP awards that vested and were released to participants was £9.50, the price of ‘B’ ordinary shares is assumed to be £0.95.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  55
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview 0
200
400
600
800
1 ,000
1 ,200
Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Nov-13 Mar-13Jul-13 Nov-14 Mar-15 Mar-14Jul-14
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure (rebased)
Source: Thomson Datastream
The performance conditions for the LTIP are set out in the tables on pages 52 and 53 of this report.
Payments to Past Directors
Anthony Fuller, former Chairman and now President, receives an annual royalty of £15,000 which is paid in recognition of the fact that Mr Fuller has given the   Company ongoing exclusive permission to use his name and signature on any Company product.   Nigel Atkinson, former Non-Executive Director, receives annual fees of £7,500 which are paid because Mr Atkinson continues to act for the Company as our   ambassador in the Hampshire area, attending various events as the Company’s representative.   Payments for Loss of Office
There were no payments to Directors or former Directors for loss of office.
Performance Graph and Table
The graph below shows a comparison of the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) for the Company’s listed ‘A’ ordinary shares for the last 10 financial years against   the TSR for the companies in the FTSE Travel & Leisure Index. The Company is a constituent of this Index and therefore it is an appropriate choice for this report.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the last five financial years and the annual bonus and LTIP pay-out for each   year as a percentage of the maximum available.
2011
2
2012 2013 2014
3
2015
Single figure total remuneration 1,518 944 1,088 977 1,244
Annual bonus
1
70% 56% 41% 77% 76%
LTIP 85% 92% 56% 64% 96%
1
    Annual bonus as a percentage of the maximum available.
2
       The single total remuneration figure includes an increase in the accrued benefit under the defined benefit Company pension plan to the value of £44,000, equating to a benefit of £880,000.   Michael Turner did not receive such an increase in the other years disclosed. Excluding this pension benefit reduces the single total figure to £638,000 for the year.
3
       Simon Emeny was appointed as Group Chief Executive in July 2013. The single total figure comprises of the remuneration received by Simon Emeny in the financial year, hence includes   remuneration for the three months prior to this promotion.
56  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 56  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
Share 
buybacks
Dividends
3
Capital 
Expenditure & 
Business 
Combinations
2
Remuneration Taxes 
payable to 
HMRC
1
£m
2015
2014
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
The table below shows the total remuneration for the Group’s employees compared to other key financial indicators:
1
       Taxes payable to HMRC is based upon tax incurred in the year and includes corporation tax, VAT, PAYE, NI, duty, stamp duty, non-domestic rates, property licences, environmental levies and machine   game duty. It has increased due to increased VAT and duty payments resulting from the continued growth of the Group. This measure has been selected as it reflects a significant outflow for the Group.
2
       Capital expenditure (including business combinations) represents cash paid, is consistent with the numbers disclosed in the financial statements and has increased due to the conversion of The   Lamb & Flag from leasehold to freehold in the year. This measure has been selected as it reflects a significant outflow for the Group.
3
    Dividends represents the interim dividend for 2014 paid in the year and the final dividend for 2014 that has been proposed but not paid in the year.
Statement of Voting at the Last Annual General Meeting
At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 July 2014, votes cast by proxy in respect of the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report were as follows:   Resolution text 
Number of votes 
cast for
Percentage of votes 
cast for
Number of votes 
cast against
Percentage of votes 
cast against Total votes cast
Number of 
votes withheld 
Approval of 
Remuneration Report 91,441,071 98.70% 1,207 ,896 1.30% 92,648,967 4,423,373
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, encompassing pages 43 to 57, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
Alastair Kerr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 June 2015
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  57
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview 58  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 28 March 2015 and of the Group’s profit   for the 52 week period then ended;   •  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the   European Union;   •  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in   accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,   Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards (“IAS”) Regulation.
Who we are reporting to
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has   been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other   purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members   as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
What we have audited
Fuller, Smith & Turner P .L.C.’s financial statements for the 52 week period ended 28 March 2015 comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Company   Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and   Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 31.   The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European   Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risk
In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users’ understanding   of our audit.
Assessment of impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill
The risk: As more fully explained in note 11, the Directors are required to make an impairment assessment for property, plant and equipment when there is   an indication that an asset may be impaired and for goodwill annually. The process for measuring and recognising impairment under IAS   36  Impairment  of  Assets is complex and highly judgemental, particularly as each individual trading outlet is treated as a separate cash-generating  unit  for  impairment  purposes.  We therefore identified the valuation of property, plant and equipment and goodwill as a significant risk requiring special audit   consideration.  Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, using our valuation specialists to evaluate the methodology and assumptions used by the   Directors to perform the impairment assessment, in particular those relating to the forecasted growth and discount rates for each cash-generating unit, and   the allocation of goodwill to groups of cash-generating units. We compared the methodologies applied and the assumptions used to our expectations and   emerging market activity. We also used our valuations specialists, to challenge the key assumptions used by management.
The Group’s accounting policy on impairment is included in note 1, with further disclosure given in respect of property, plant and equipment in note 11 and   goodwill in note 10. The Audit Committee also identified impairment testing of property assets as a significant issue in its report on page 41, where the   Committee also describes how it addressed this issue.
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the members of Fuller, Smith & Turner P .L.C. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  59
The risk of fraud in revenue recognition
The risk: Under International Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”) (UK and Ireland), there is a presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition. As the Group records   a substantial proportion of sales in cash and through point of sale transactions, we identified fraud in revenue recognition as a significant risk requiring special   audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an evaluation of the revenue recognition policies for each of the Group’s three operating   segments in accordance with the Group’s stated accounting policies and IAS 18 Revenue. For each segment, we tested a sample of revenue transactions to proof  of  delivery documentation to assess whether the Group’s revenue recognition policy was being applied consistently in each case. This was supported by further  substantive tests of detail in respect of trade receivables, through a combination of third party confirmations, testing of subsequent receipts or proof of delivery.   The Group’s accounting policy on revenue recognition is included in note 1, with disclosure of revenues in note 3.
Management override of controls
The risk: Under ISAs (UK and Ireland), for all of our audits we are required to consider the risk of management override of controls. Due to the unpredictable   nature of this risk, we have assessed it as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, specific procedures relating to this risk that are required by ISA (UK and Ireland) 240   The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements. This included tests of journal entries using computer assisted analytical   techniques, and in particular an assessment of both unusual transactions and an analysis of the initiators of journal entries. Our work also included the   evaluation of judgements and assumptions in management’s estimates, assessing the extent of estimation uncertainty using sensitivity analysis, and tests   of significant transactions outside the normal course of business.   In particular, we assessed each of the critical judgements and estimates as set out in the Group’s accounting policies in note 1, with a particular focus on the   assessment of impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill, as set out above.   Fair value measurement of The Stable entities acquisition
The risk: As a significant business combination in the period, there is a requirement to recognise the acquisition in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.   The risk is that inappropriate valuation and accounting treatment may be applied due to the complex nature of the acquisition and specifically the terms of the   put and call option. We therefore considered the fair value measurement of The Stable entities acquired as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an evaluation of the acquisition accounting paper provided by management in conjunction   with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and a review of the Share Purchase Agreement and other relevant signed documentation relating to the acquisition. In   addition, we have assessed the recognition and valuation of the contingent consideration including the put and call options in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Business Combination disclosure given in respect of the acquisition is detailed in note 17. The Audit Committee also identified the acquisition of a majority   interest in The Stable as a significant issue in its report on page 41, where the Committee also describes how it addressed this issue. 60  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably   knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We determined materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements as a whole to be £1.7 million,  which is 5% of a forecast of the period’s profit before taxation. As the profit before taxation for the period is not substantially different from the forecast, we   have not revised our assessment of materiality. This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because it is one of the most important key performance   indicators for the Board and its shareholders as well as being a crucial component of the earnings per share calculation and the value of Directors’ bonuses.   We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of financial statement materiality for the   audit of the Group financial statements. We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as Directors’ remuneration and related   party transactions.   We determined the threshold at which we will communicate misstatements in respect of the Group financial statements to the Audit Committee to be £86,000.   In addition we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described   in the ‘Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit’ section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and   appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have fulfilled our other ethical   responsibilities in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
The Group is organised into three principal operating divisions: Managed Pubs and Hotels, Tenanted Inns and The Fuller’s Beer Company. Although the   Group financial statements are a consolidation of three trading subsidiaries, over 99% of the Group’s revenue and profit before taxation arose in the Parent   Company. The subsidiaries are subject to analytical procedures. Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the Group’s business and is   risk-based consisting of substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors such as our   overall assessment of the control environment, the design effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the management of specific risks.
Other reporting required by regulations
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and   •  the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with   the financial statements.   Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
•  otherwise misleading.
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the Members of Fuller, Smith & Turner P .L.C. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  61
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
•  we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report   is fair, balanced and understandable; or   •  the  Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not   visited by us; or
•  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting   records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.   Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
•  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 20, in relation to going concern; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code   specified for our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
What an audit of financial statements involves
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
What the directors are responsible for
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial   statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.   What we are responsible for
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing   (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Charles Hutton-Potts
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
4 June 2015 62  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Group Income Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3  321.5  –  321.5  288.0  –  288.0 
Operating costs 4,5 (279.2) (1.5) (280.7) (248.1) (1.9) (250.0) 
Operating profit 42.3 (1.5)  40.8  39.9 (1.9)  38.0 
Profit on disposal of properties 5  –  0.8  0.8  –  1.9  1.9 
Pension fund curtailment gain 5  –  1.2  1.2  –  –  – 
Finance costs 5,6 (5.9) (0.8) (6.7) (5.8) (0.6) (6.4) 
Profit before tax 36.4 (0.3)  36.1  34.1 (0.6)  33.5 
Taxation 5,7 (7.9) 0.1 (7.8) (7.9)  3.5 (4.4) 
Profit for the year 28.5 (0.2)  28.3  26.2  2.9  29.1 
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Parent Company 28.6 (0.2)  28.4 26.2  2.9  29.1 
Non-controlling interests (0.1)  – (0.1)  –  –  – 
Earnings per share per 40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic 8 51.15 52.14 
Diluted 8 50.42 51.39 
Adjusted 8 51.51 46.94 
Diluted adjusted 8 50.78 46.27 
Earnings per share per 4p ‘B’ ordinary share
Basic 8 5.12 5.21 
Diluted 8 5.04 5.14 
Adjusted 8 5.15 4.69 
Diluted adjusted 8 5.08 4.63 
The results and earnings per share measures above are all in respect of continuing operations of the Group. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  63
Group and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Group Note
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Profit for the year 28.3 29.1
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Net (losses)/gains on valuation of financial assets and liabilities 26 (3.0)  2.4 
Tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 0.6 (0.6) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Net actuarial losses on pension schemes 23 (8.3) (4.1) 
Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 1.7 0.4 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (9.0) (1.9) 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 19.3 27.2 
Total comprehensive income attributable to
Equity shareholders of the Parent Company 19.4 27.2
Non-controlling interest (0.1)  –
Company
Profit for the year 27.0 26.4 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Net (losses)/gains on valuation of financial assets and liabilities 26 (3.0) 2.4 
Tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 0.6 (0.6) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Net actuarial losses on pension schemes 23 (8.3) (4.1) 
Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 1.7 0.4 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (9.0) (1.9) 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 18.0 24.5  64  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Note
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 38.7 34.4 8.5 7.9 
Property, plant and equipment 11 471.9 434.8 466.7 433.1 
Investment properties 12 4.6 4.7 4.6 4.7 
Derivative financial assets 13 0.3 0.8 0.3 0.8 
Other non-current assets 14 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 
Investments in subsidiaries 15  –  – 94.8 94.8 
Deferred tax assets 25 8.4 6.2 8.2 6.1 
Total non-current assets 524.2 481.3 583.4 547.8 
Current assets
Inventories 18 10.6 10.6 10.6 10.6 
Trade and other receivables 19 17.7 18.3 26.4 18.3 
Cash and short term deposits 22 5.1 4.1 4.8 4.1 
Total current assets 33.4 33.0 41.8 33.0 
Assets classified as held for sale 20  – 1.2  – 1.2 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 49.2 46.1 145.9 140.4 
Current tax payable 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.9 
Provisions 25 0.4 1.2 0.4 1.2 
Borrowings 22 20.0  – 20.0 –
Total current liabilities 73.5 51.2 170.2 145.5 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 147.7 143.9 147.5 143.7 
Derivative financial liabilities 13 6.1 0.8 3.1 0.8 
Retirement benefit obligations 23 24.4 17.2 24.4 17.2 
Deferred tax liabilities 25 21.3 22.6 21.3 22.6 
Provisions 25 2.5 2.2 2.5 2.2 
Other non-current payables 21 0.4 0.4  –  – 
Total non-current liabilities 202.4 187.1 198.8 186.5 
Net assets 281.7 277.2 256.2 250.0 
Capital and reserves
Share capital 27 22.8 22.8 22.8 22.8 
Share premium account 27 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8 
Capital redemption reserve 27 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 
Own shares 27 (13.5) (9.7) (13.5) (9.7)
Hedging reserve 27 (2.4) – (2.4) – 
Retained earnings 270.0 256.2 241.4 229.0 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 284.8 277.2 256.2 250.0 
Non-controlling interest (3.1) –  –  – 
Total equity 281.7 277.2 256.2 250.0 
Approved by the Board and signed on 4 June 2015.
M J Turner, FCA
Chairman
Group and Company Balance Sheets
28 March 2015 Governance Financial Statements Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  65
Strategic Report
Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Group
Share
capital
(note 27)
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Own
shares
(note 27)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Non-
controlling
interest
(note 16)
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 30 March 2013 22.8 4.8 3.1 (8.7) (1.8) 239.2 259.4  – 259.4 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 29.1 29.1  – 29.1 
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 (3.7) (1.9) – (1.9)
Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year –  –  –  –  1.8  25.4  27.2  –  27.2 
Shares purchased to be held 
in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (5.3)  –  – (5.3)  – (5.3) 
Shares released from ESOT 
and treasury –  –  –  4.3  – (2.9) 1.4  – 1.4 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (7.9) (7.9) – (7.9)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 1.8 1.8  – 1.8 
Tax credited directly to equity 
(note 7) –  –  –  –  – 0.6 0.6  – 0.6 
Total transactions with owners –  –  – (1.0)  – (8.4) (9.4)  – (9.4) 
At 29 March 2014 22.8 4.8 3.1 (9.7) – 256.2 277.2  – 277.2 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 28.4 28.4 (0.1) 28.3 
Other comprehensive loss –  –  –  – (2.4) (6.6) (9.0) – (9.0)
Total comprehensive  
income for the year –  –  –  – (2.4) 21.8 19.4 (0.1) 19.3
Shares purchased to be held 
in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (7.1)  –  – (7.1) – (7.1)
Shares released from ESOT 
and treasury –  –  –  3.3  – (2.3) 1.0  – 1.0 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (8.7) (8.7) – (8.7)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 2.6 2.6  – 2.6 
Tax credited directly to equity 
(note 7) –  –  –  –  –  0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Adjustments arising from 
change in non-controlling 
interest (note 16) –  –  –  –  –  –  – (3.0) (3.0)
Total transactions with owners –  –  – (3.8)  – (8.0) (11.8) (3.0) (14.8) 
At 28 March 2015 22.8 4.8 3.1 (13.5) (2.4) 270.0 284.8 (3.1) 281.7 66  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Company Statements of Changes in Equity
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Company
Share
capital
(note 27)
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Own
shares
(note 27)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 30 March 2013 22.8 4.8 3.1 (8.7) (1.8) 214.7 234.9
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 26.4 26.4
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 (3.7) (1.9)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 22.7 24.5 
Shares purchased to be held in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (5.3)  –  – (5.3)
Shares released from ESOT and treasury –  –  –  4.3  – (2.9) 1.4 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (7.9) (7.9)
Share–based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 1.8 1.8 
Tax credited directly to equity  –  –  –  –  – 0.6 0.6
Total transactions with owners –  –  – (1.0)  – (8.4) (9.4)
At 29 March 2014 22.8 4.8 3.1 (9.7) – 229.0 250.0 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 27.0 27.0
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year –  –  –  – (2.4) (6.6) (9.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year –  –  –  – (2.4) 20.4 18.0
Shares purchased to be held in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (7.1)  – – (7.1)
Shares released from ESOT and treasury –  –  –  3.3  – (2.3) 1.0
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (8.7) (8.7)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 2.6 2.6
Tax credited directly to equity  –  –  –  –  – 0.4 0.4
Total transactions with owners –  –  – (3.8)  – (8.0) (11.8)
At 28 March 2015 22.8 4.8 3.1 (13.5) (2.4) 241.4 256.2 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  67
Group and Company Cash Flow Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Note
Group
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
Group
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Company
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
Company
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Profit before tax 36.1 33.5 34.2 30.0 
Net finance costs before exceptional items 5.9 5.8 8.8 9.0 
Exceptional items 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.6 
Depreciation and amortisation 16.4 14.7 15.8 14.5 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment – (0.1) – (0.1) 
58.7 54.5  59.1  54.0 
Difference between pension charge and cash paid (0.7) (0.5) (0.7) (0.5)
Share-based payment charges 2.6 1.8 2.6 1.8 
Change in trade and other receivables (0.6) 1.0 (0.4) 1.0 
Change in inventories – (0.1) – (0.1)
Change in trade and other payables 1.7 2.8 0.9 2.8 
Cash impact of operating exceptional items 5 (1.7) (2.1) (1.7) (2.1)
Cash generated from operations 60.0 57.4 59.8 56.9 
Tax paid (8.3) (8.0) (8.3) (8.0)
Cash generated from operating activities 51.7 49.4 51.5 48.9 
Cash flow from investing activities
Business combinations 17 (25.2) (9.6) (21.6) (9.6)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (31.1) (28.5) (28.2) (28.1) 
Overdraft acquired on acquisition (0.1) (0.1)  –  – 
Sale of property, plant and equipment 3.3 2.6 3.3 2.6 
Net cash outflow from investing activities (53.1) (35.6) (46.5) (35.1) 
Cash flow from financing activities
Purchase of own shares 27 (7.1) (5.3) (7.1) (5.3)
Receipts on release of own shares to option schemes 1.0  1.4 1.0 1.4 
Interest paid (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) (5.2)
Preference dividends paid 9 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Equity dividends paid 9 (8.7) (7.9) (8.7) (7.9)
Drawdown of bank loans 24.5 3.4 24.5 3.4 
Repayment of other loans (0.5) (0.3) – (0.3)
Loans to subsidiary companies – – (7.2) –
Cost of refinancing (1.1) – (1.1) –
Cost of new derivative instruments (0.4) – (0.4) –
Net cash outflow from financing activities 2.4 (14.0) (4.3) (14.0) 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents 1.0 (0.2) 0.7 (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 22  4.1  4.3 4.1 4.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 5.1 4.1 4.8 4.1  68  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies
Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement of Compliance with IFRSs
The financial statements of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 were authorised for issue by   the Board of Directors on 5 June 2015 and the Balance Sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by M J Turner. Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. is a public limited   company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary ‘A’ shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s and Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted for   use in the European Union and applied to the financial statements of the Group and the Company for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015, in accordance with   the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out in the accounting policies below.   Profit attributable to members of the Parent Company
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate Income Statement for the Parent Company has not been prepared. The profit attributable  to ordinary shareholders and included in the financial statements of the Parent Company was £27.0 million (2014: £26.4 million). There was no dividend from   subsidiary companies during the current year (2014: £nil).    Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are shown in millions of pounds (£m) rounded to the nearest hundred   thousand, except when otherwise indicated.
The Directors have considered a number of cash flow scenarios and have determined that the Group has adequate resources, an appropriate financial   structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Adoption of New Standards and Interpretations:
The following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations are effective for the Group’s period commencing 30 March 2014:
•  IAS 39 (June 2013) Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting  1 January 2014
•  IAS 36 (May 2013) Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets  1 January 2014
•  IFRIC 21 Levies  17 June 2014
•  IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (October 2012) Investment Entities  1 January 2014
•  IAS 32 (December 2011) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  1 January 2014
•  IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities  1 January 2014
•  IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements  1 January 2014
•  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements  1 January 2014
•  IAS 28 (revised May 2011) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures  1 January 2014
•  IAS 27 (revised May 2011) Separate Financial Statements  1 January 2014
Basis of Consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) drawn up for   the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014).
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until   the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its   activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual  agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.   All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried   initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual   or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. Payments made to acquire operating leases from third parties are classified as intangible assets   and amortised over the expected life of the lease and recognised in the Income Statement.   Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method. Any excess of the consideration of the business combination over the   Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Balance Sheet as goodwill and is not   amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the   investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, at least   annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Any impairment of goodwill made cannot be   reversed if circumstances subsequently change.
Any contingent considerations recognised on business combinations are measured at fair value using Level 3 valuation techniques. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  69
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units (or group of cash-generating units) monitored by management.  Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the   Income Statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an   operation within it.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Depreciation is calculated on   a straight-line basis down to the estimated residual value over the expected useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold buildings – Hotel accommodation and offices  Up to 50 years
Freehold buildings – Licensed retail property, unlicensed property and brewery  50 to 100 years
Leasehold improvements  The term of the lease
Roofs  From 10 to 50 years
Plant, machinery and vehicles, containers, fixtures and fittings  From three years up to 25 years
As required under IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment, expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed every year. Land is not depreciated.
Government Grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the   grants will be received.
Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises as expenses the related costs for   which the grants are intended to compensate. Specifically, government grants whose primary condition is that the Group should purchase, construct or   otherwise acquire non-current assets are recognised as deferred revenue in the Balance Sheet and transferred to the Income Statement on a systematic   basis over the useful economic life of the related assets.   Investment Property
The Group owns properties that are not used for the production of goods or services but are held for capital appreciation or rental purposes. These properties   are classified as investment properties and their carrying values are based on cost. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis down to the estimated   residual value over the expected useful life of the asset, which for investment properties is 50 to 100 years.
Impairment
Carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. If such an indicator exists and where   the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amounts. An asset’s   recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell, and the value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted  to present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset. For an   asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash-generating unit to which the asset   belongs. Impairment losses, and any reversal of such losses, are recognised in the Income Statement.
Leases
Group as a lessee
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are   charged in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.   Group as a lessor
Assets leased under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Rental income,   including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Assets Held for Sale
Assets are classified as held for sale when the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use. To be   classified as such management need to have initiated a sales plan as at the Balance Sheet date and must expect the sale to qualify for recognition as a completed   sale within one year. Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged whilst assets   are classified as held for sale.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the First In First Out method. The cost of own beer consists of   materials with the addition of relevant overhead expenses. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated   costs of completion and the costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 70  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Financial Instruments
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables and loans to customers do not carry any interest and are recognised at their original invoiced amounts, less an allowance for any amounts   that are not considered to be collectible. Increases to the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement within operating costs. At the point   a trade receivable is written off the ledger as uncollectible, the cost is charged against the allowance account and any subsequent recoveries of amounts   previously written off are credited to the Income Statement.
Cash and short term deposits
Cash and short term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where the rights to receive cash   flows from the asset have expired.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables do not bear interest and are carried at original cost.
Bank loans, overdrafts and debentures
Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are initially recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and thereafter at amortised   cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective interest rate basis in the  Income Statement. Finance charges are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced   by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification  is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together   with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange transaction risks, the Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. In order to hedge its   exposure to interest rate risks, the Group enters into interest rate derivative contracts. The Group uses these contracts in order to hedge known borrowings.   The Group does not use any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured  at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. The fair value of forward currency   contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap and cap   contracts are determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. This represents a Level 2 fair value under the hierarchy in IFRS 7.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation   identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its   duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective. For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when   hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable   forecast transaction.
Interest rate swaps are classified as cash flow hedges. If they are effective hedges, then any changes in fair value are deferred in equity until the hedged   transaction occurs, when any changes in fair value will be recycled through the Income Statement together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged   item. If the hedges are not effective hedges, then any changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss. If the hedging instrument   expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity   remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the Income Statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the Income Statement.
The put and call option for the remaining 49% of The Stable Pizza and Cider Limited is recognised as a derivative financial instrument measured using a Level 3 fair value   valuation technique.
Classification of Shares as Debt or Equity
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the Balance Sheet; measured   initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption. The corresponding dividends   relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the Income Statement. The initial fair value of the liability component is determined   using a market rate for an equivalent liability without a conversion feature.
The remainder of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of transaction costs. The carrying   amount of the equity component is not remeasured in subsequent years.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  71
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Overview
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
The Group’s ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments. For the purposes of the disclosures given in note 26, the Group considers its capital to   comprise its ordinary share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, hedging reserve and accumulated retained earnings plus its preference shares   which are classified as a financial liability in the Balance Sheet. There have been no changes to what the Group considers to be capital since the prior year.
Upon initial recognition, the fair value of the put and call option is recognised directly in equity within non-controlling interest. Subsequent remeasurement   of the option is taken to the income statement.
Preference Shares
The Group’s preference shares are reported under non-current liabilities. The corresponding dividends on preference shares are charged as interest in the   Income Statement. Preference shares carry interest at fixed rates.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and revenue can be reliably measured. It is measured   at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of discounts and VAT.
Sales of goods are recognised when the goods are delivered and title has passed. Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.   Revenue for bedroom accommodation is recognised at the point the services are rendered. Amusement machine revenue is recognised in the accounting   period to which the income relates.
Operating Profit
Operating profit is revenue less operating costs. Revenue is as detailed above and as shown in note 3. Operating costs are all costs excluding finance costs,   costs associated with the disposal of properties and the tax charge.
Finance Revenue
Finance revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method.
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs are generally recognised as an expense when incurred. Interest expenses directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset   that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets being created. This is applied to development projects   where the development is expected to last in excess of six months at the commencement of the project.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year using UK tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date and any adjustment  to tax payable in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income   or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or are never taxable or deductible.
Tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise tax is recognised in the Statement of   Comprehensive Income or the Income Statement, as applicable.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for   financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except where the liability arises from the initial recognition   of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor   taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the   temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is   probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised except where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of goodwill  or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable   profit or loss. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods when the asset is realised   or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Foreign Currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the year end exchange rates and the resulting exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement, except   where hedge accounting is applied.
Pensions and Other Post-Employment Benefits
Defined contribution schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they fall due. 72  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operated a defined benefit pension plan for eligible employees where contributions are made into a separate fund administered by trustees.   The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method calculated by qualified actuaries. This   attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the present value   of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the   vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in   the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions  and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The Group determines the net interest charge on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the   defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the period to the net pension liability/(asset) at the beginning of the period. The net interest charge is recognised   immediately as an exceptional finance cost/(income) in the Income Statement. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive   Income in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the Balance Sheet comprises the total of the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a discount   rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are   to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price. The value of a net pension   benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of   refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
Exceptional Items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Income Statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature   or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial   performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
Share-Based Payments
The Group has an employee Share Incentive Plan, that awards shares to employees based on the reported profits of the Group for the year, and a Long Term   Incentive Plan which awards shares to Directors and Senior Executives subject to specific performance criteria. The Group also issues equity-settled   share-based payments to certain employees under approved and unapproved share option schemes and a Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an   expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined using   an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions. The Group has no equity-settled transactions  that are linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest. At each Balance Sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing   the extent to which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number   of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous Balance Sheet date is recognised in the Income   Statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original   award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period   for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award,   both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is not met), it is treated as if it   had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the Income Statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation   paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense  in the Income Statement.
Own Shares
Shares to be awarded under employee incentive plans and those that have been awarded but have yet to vest unconditionally are held at cost by an employee   share ownership trust and shown as a deduction from equity in the Balance Sheet.
In addition to the purchase of shares by the various employee share ownership trusts for specific awards, the Group also from time to time acquires own   shares to be held as treasury shares. These shares are occasionally but not exclusively used to satisfy awards under various share option schemes. Treasury   shares are held at cost and shown as a deduction from total equity in the Balance Sheet.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being   taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.
Dividends
Dividends recommended by the Board but unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they are paid (in the case of the interim   dividend) or approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (in the case of the final dividend).  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  73
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Financial Guarantee Contracts
Where the Company enters into contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be   insurance  arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it  becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company’s Investments in Subsidiaries
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost. Income is recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions received from   post-acquisition profits. Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are deducted from the cost of the investment.
New Standards and Interpretations Issued But Not Yet Applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for periods starting on or after the date on which these   financial statements start. The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of these standards and interpretations, wherever relevant to the Group,   will have a significant impact on the Group’s results or assets and liabilities in the period of initial application and are not expected to require significant   additional disclosure:
•  Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements regarding disclosure initiative
•  Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets regarding clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation   and amortisation
•  Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture regarding bearer plants
•  Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits regarding defined benefit plans
•  Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements regarding the equity method
•  Annual improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 cycle
•  Annual improvements to IFRS 2011-2013 cycle
•  Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle
•  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
•  Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures regarding sale or contribution of assets   between an investor and its associate or joint venture
•  Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint   Ventures regarding investment entities applying the consolidation exception
•  Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation
•  IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
•  IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which are considered to be significant are as follows:
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to   which the goodwill is allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate. Full details are supplied in note 10, together   with an analysis of the key assumptions.
The Group reviews for impairment all property, plant and equipment at cash-generating unit level where there is any indication of impairment. This requires   an estimation of the value in use and involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate. See note 11, which describes the assumptions  used together with an analysis of the key assumptions.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected   return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate. These have been determined on advice from the Group’s qualified actuary. The estimates used   and the key assumptions are provided in note 23.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal   resolution has been reached with the tax authorities. Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained. Tax provisions are   made if it is possible that a liability will arise. The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment. See   notes 7 and 25.
The assessment of fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised in the financial statements on the acquisition of a business and additional consideration,   and the date that control is obtained, require significant judgement. Management assesses fair values, particularly for property, plant and equipment, with   reference to current market prices. See note 17 for business combinations made in the year. 74  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
2. Segmental Analysis
Operating Segments
For management purposes, the Group’s operating segments are:
•  Managed Pubs and Hotels, which comprises managed pubs and managed hotels;
•  Tenanted Inns, which comprises pubs operated by third parties under tenancy or lease agreements; and
•  The Fuller’s Beer Company, which comprises the brewing and distribution of beer, wines and spirits.
The Group’s business is vertically integrated. The most important measure used to evaluate the performance of the business is adjusted profit, which is the   profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items. The operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and   services provided, with each segment representing a strategic operating unit. More details of these segments are given in the Strategic Review on pages 8 to 31   of this report. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit before exceptional items and is measured consistently with the operating profit   before exceptional items in the consolidated financial statements.
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment revenue, segment   expense and segment result include transfers between operating segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation. Group financing, including   finance costs and revenue, and taxation are managed on a Group basis.
As segment assets and liabilities are not regularly provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker, the Group has elected, as provided under IFRS 8   Operating Segments (amended), not to disclose a measure of segment assets and liabilities.
52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Managed
Pubs and
Hotels
£m
Tenanted
Inns
£m
The Fuller’s
Beer
Company
£m
Unallocated
1
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
Segment revenue 213.8  31.4  122.9  –  368.1 
Inter-segment sales – – (46.6)  – (46.6) 
Revenue from third parties 213.8  31.4  76.3  –  321.5 
Segment result 25.0  12.6  8.7 (4.0)  42.3 
Operating exceptional items (1.5) 
Operating profit  40.8 
Profit on disposal of properties 0.8 
Pension fund curtailment gain 1.2 
Net finance costs (6.7) 
Profit before tax 36.1 
Other segment information
Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 24.6 2.1 4.4 – 31.1
Business combinations (note 17) 22.7 2.5 – – 25.2
Depreciation and amortisation 11.5  1.6  3.3  –  16.4 
Impairment of property 0.4  0.3  –  –  0.7 
Reversal of impairment on property (0.6) (0.1)  –  – (0.7) 
1
    Unallocated expenses represent primarily the salary and costs of central management.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  75
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
2. Segmental Analysis continued
52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Managed
Pubs and
Hotels
£m
Tenanted
Inns
£m
The Fuller’s
Beer
Company
£m
Unallocated
1
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 
Segment revenue  186.0  31.3  115.8  –  333.1 
Inter-segment sales –  – (45.1)  – (45.1) 
Revenue from third parties 186.0  31.3  70.7  –  288.0 
Segment result 22.5  12.3  8.5 (3.4)  39.9 
Operating exceptional items (1.9) 
Operating profit 38.0 
Profit on disposal of properties 1.9 
Net finance costs (6.4) 
Profit before tax 33.5 
Other segment information
Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 25.4  1.6  1.5  –  28.5 
Business combinations (note 17) 4.9  2.2  4.2  –  11.3 
Depreciation and amortisation 10.0  1.7  3.0  –  14.7 
Impairment of property 0.9  0.9  –  –  1.8 
Reversal of impairment on property (0.3) (1.0)  –  – (1.3) 
1
    Unallocated expenses represent primarily the salary and costs of central management.
Geographical Information
The majority of the Group’s business is within the UK and the Group identifies two distinct geographic markets:
52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
UK
£m
Rest of the
World
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 313.4  8.1 321.5 
52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
UK
£m
Rest of the
World
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 280.2  7.8  288.0 
Sales to external customers disclosed in geographical information are based on the geographical location of the customer. All of the Group’s assets, liabilities   and capital expenditure relate to the UK only.
3. Revenue
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:
Sale of goods and services 311.9 278.4 
Rental income 9.6 9.6 
321.5 288.0  76  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
4. Operating Costs
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
 52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Production costs and cost of goods used in retailing 105.7 97.5 
Change in stocks of finished goods and beer in progress – 0.5 
Staff costs 83.0 72.9 
Repairs and maintenance 9.8 9.2 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15.5  14.1 
Amortisation of intangibles 0.9  0.6 
Operating lease rentals – minimum lease payments
1
7.8 7.5 
– contingent rents
2
2.7 1.8 
Exceptional items (note 5) 1.5  1.9 
Other 53.8 44.0 
280.7  250.0 
1
    Included within minimum lease payments are sublease payments of £0.6 million (2014: £0.6 million).   2
    Contingent rents are dependent on turnover levels.
Details of income and direct expenses relating to rental income from investment properties are shown in note 12.
a) Auditors’ Remuneration
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
 52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Fees payable to Company’s auditors:
– Statutory audit fees of Group financial statements 0.1 0.1 
0.1 0.1 
Other audit related services, comprising of a half year review and iXBRL tagging, of £19,600 were incurred in the year.
b) Staff Costs
1
£m £m
Wages and salaries
2
75.6 66.2 
Social security costs 5.4 4.9 
Pension benefits 2.0 1.8 
83.0 72.9 
1
Includes Directors.   2
Includes share-based payment expense.
c) Average Number of Employees
3
Number Number
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including part-time staff) was as follows:
Fuller’s Inns 3,717 3,269 
The Fuller’s Beer Company 328 328 
Central Services 13 13
4,058 3,610 
3
    Includes Directors.
d) Directors’ Emoluments
Full details are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and tables on pages 43 to 57.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  77
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Governance
5. Exceptional Items
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
 52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Amounts included in operating profit:
Acquisition costs (1.2) (1.1) 
Impairment of properties (0.7) (1.8) 
Reversal of impairment on property 0.7  1.3 
Onerous lease provision (charge)/release (note 25) (0.3)  0.9 
Reorganisation costs – (1.2) 
Total exceptional items included in operating profit (1.5) (1.9) 
Profit on disposal of properties 0.8  1.9 
Pension fund curtailment gain 1.2 –
Exceptional finance costs:
Finance charge on net pension liabilities (0.8) (0.6) 
Total exceptional finance costs (0.8) (0.6) 
Total exceptional items before tax (0.3) (0.6) 
Exceptional tax:
Change in corporation tax rate (see note 7) – 3.4 
Profit on disposal of properties (0.2) (0.3)
Pension fund curtailment gain (0.2) –
Other items 0.5 0.4 
Total exceptional tax 0.1 3.5 
Total exceptional items (0.2)  2.9 
Acquisition costs of £1.2 million during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £1.1 million) related to transaction costs on pub and business acquisitions   which qualify as business combinations (see note 17).
The property impairment charge of £0.7 million during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £1.8 million) relates to the write down of licensed properties   to their recoverable value. The reversal of impairment credit of £0.7 million during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £1.3 million) relates to the write   back of previously impaired licensed properties to their recoverable value.
The onerous lease provision charge of £0.3 million during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £0.9 million release) relates to the change in circumstances  of three previously onerous leasehold properties.
The reorganisation costs of £1.2 million for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 were principally incurred within The Fuller’s Beer Company and relate to staff   and the proposed closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
The profit on disposal of properties of £0.8 million during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £1.9 million) relates to the disposal of four licensed   properties (2014: five licensed and unlicensed properties).   The pension fund curtailment gain of £1.2 million for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 relates to the closure in January 2015 of the defined benefit pension   scheme to future accrual.
The cash impact of operating exceptional items before tax for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 was a £1.7 million cash outflow (2014: £2.1 million outflow). 78  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
6. Finance Costs
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
 52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Interest expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost – loans and debentures 5.6 5.4
Financial liabilities at amortised cost – preference shares 0.1 0.1
Total interest expense for financial liabilities 5.7  5.5 
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 0.2  0.3 
Total finance costs before exceptional items 5.9  5.8 
Finance charge on net pension liabilities (note 5) 0.8  0.6 
Total interest expense 6.7  6.4
7. Taxation
a) Tax on Profit on Ordinary Activities
Group
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Tax charged in the Income Statement
Current income tax:
Corporation tax 8.6 8.8 
Amounts over provided in previous years – (0.3) 
Total current income tax 8.6 8.5 
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (0.8) (0.8) 
Change in corporation tax rate (note 5) – (3.4) 
Amounts underprovided in previous years – 0.1 
Total deferred tax (0.8) (4.1) 
Total tax charged in the Income Statement 7.8  4.4 
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Tax relating to items charged/(credited) to the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax:
Change in corporation tax rate – 0.6 
Net gains/(losses) on valuation of financial assets and liabilities 0.6 0.4 
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on pension scheme 1.7 (0.8) 
Tax charge included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 2.3 0.2   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  79
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
7. Taxation continued
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Tax relating to items charged/credited directly to equity
Deferred tax:
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to indexation (0.3) (0.3) 
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 
Current tax:
Share-based payments (0.2) (0.4) 
Tax credit included in the Statement of Changes in Equity (0.4) (0.6) 
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Deferred tax in the Income Statement
Decelerated tax depreciation (0.8) (2.9) 
Rolled over capital gains – (1.0) 
Retirement benefit obligations 0.1 0.1 
Tax losses carried forward – – 
Employee share schemes (0.1) (0.1) 
Others – (0.2) 
 (0.8) (4.1) 
The rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. To the extent that this rate change will affect the amount of future cash tax   payments to be made by the Group, this will reduce the size of both the Group’s Balance Sheet deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset. In the 52 weeks   to 29 March 2014, the reduction in the rate from 23% to 21% resulted in an exceptional credit to the Income Statement of £3.4 million, and a charge to the   Statement of Comprehensive Income of £0.6 million.
b) Reconciliation of the Total Tax Charge
The tax expense in the Income Statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in UK of 21% (2014: 23%). The differences are   reconciled  below:
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
 52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 36.1  33.5 
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 21% (2014: 23%) 7.6  7.7 
Items not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.1 
Current and deferred tax overprovided in previous years – (0.2) 
Change in corporation tax rate – (3.4) 
Other 0.1  0.2 
Total tax charged in the Income Statement 7.8  4.4 80  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
8. Earnings Per Share
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
 52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 28.4  29.1 
Exceptional items net of tax 0.2 (2.9) 
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders 28.6  26.2 
Number Number
Weighted average share capital 55,521,000 55,815,000 
Dilutive outstanding options and share awards 804,000  812,000 
Diluted weighted average share capital 56,325,000 56,627,000 
40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share Pence  Pence
Basic earnings per share 51.15 52.14 
Diluted earnings per share 50.42 51.39 
Adjusted earnings per share 51.51 46.94 
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 50.78 46.27 
4p ‘B’ ordinary share Pence  Pence
Basic earnings per share 5.12  5.21 
Diluted earnings per share 5.04  5.14 
Adjusted earnings per share 5.15  4.69 
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 5.08 4.63 
For the purposes of calculating the number of shares to be used above, ‘B’ shares have been treated as one tenth of an ‘A’ or ‘C’ share. The earnings per share   calculation is based on earnings from continuing operations and on the weighted average ordinary share capital which excludes shares held by trusts relating   to employee share options and shares held in treasury of 1,463,761 (2014: 1,170,610).
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated using the same earnings figure as for basic earnings per share, divided by the weighted average number   of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive   potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. Adjusted earnings per share are calculated on profit before tax excluding exceptional items and on the same   weighted average ordinary share capital as for the basic and diluted earnings per share. An adjusted earnings per share measure has been included as the   Directors consider that this measure better reflects the underlying earnings of the Group.
9. Dividends
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Declared and paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 9.30p (2013: 8.35p) 5.2  4.7 
Interim dividend for 2015: 6.40p (2014: 5.80p) 3.5  3.2 
Equity dividends paid 8.7  7.9 
Dividends on cumulative preference shares (note 6) 0.1  0.1 
Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting:
Final dividend for 2015: 10.20p (2014: 9.30p) 5.6 5.2 
The pence figures above are for the 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares and 40p ‘C’ ordinary shares. The 4p ‘B’ shares carry dividend rights of one tenth of those applicable   to the 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares. Own shares held in the employee share trusts do not qualify for dividends as the trustees have waived their rights. Dividends are   also not paid on own shares held as treasury shares.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  81
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
10. Intangible Assets
Group
Goodwill
£m
Group and
Company
Lease
assignment
premiums
£m
Distribution
rights
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 March 2013 24.5  7.0  –  31.5  7.0 
Acquisitions (note 17) 2.6  1.1  1.2  4.9  2.3 
At 29 March 2014 27.1  8.1  1.2  36.4  9.3 
Acquisitions (note 17) 3.7  1.5  –  5.2  1.5 
At 28 March 2015 30.8  9.6  1.2  41.6  10.8 
Amortisation and impairment
At 30 March 2013 0.6 0.8  –  1.4  0.8 
Provided during the year –  0.6  –  0.6  0.6 
At 29 March 2014 0.6 1.4  –  2.0  1.4 
Provided during the year –  0.6  0.3  0.9  0.9 
At 28 March 2015 0.6  2.0  0.3  2.9  2.3 
Net book value at 28 March 2015 30.2  7.6  0.9  38.7  8.5 
Net book value at 29 March 2014 26.5  6.7  1.2  34.4  7.9 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 23.9  6.2  –  30.1  6.2 
Lease Assignment Premiums
Amounts paid to acquire leasehold property (“lease assignment premiums”) are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful life of the lease.   The amortisation is charged in the Income Statement in the line item “Operating costs” (note 4).
There are five pubs on which we carry lease assignment premiums at 28 March 2015 (2014: four).
Distribution Right
Amounts paid to acquire the exclusive import and distributions rights to Sierra Nevada products within the UK. Details of the amounts paid are included in   note 17. The amortisation is charged in the Income Statement in the line item “Operating costs” (note 4).
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Gales estate 22.7  22.7 
Jacomb Guinness estate 1.2  1.2 
Cornish Orchards 2.6  2.6 
The Stable Pizza and Cider Limited 3.7  – 
30.2  26.5 
Of  the £22.7 million of goodwill relating to the Gales estate, £9.1 million relates to the Managed Pubs and Hotels division and £13.6 million relates to the Tenanted  Inns division. All of the Jacomb Guinness goodwill relates to the Managed Pubs and Hotels division. All of the Cornish Orchards goodwill relates to The Fuller’s   Beer Company. All of the Stable Pizza and Cider Limited goodwill relates to the Managed Pubs and Hotels division.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations:
Long term growth rate – Managed 1.0% 2.0%
Long term growth rate – Tenanted 1.0% 1.5%
Long term growth rate – Cornish Orchards 2.0% 2.0%
Long term growth rate – Stable Pizza and Cider Limited 2.0% – 
Pre-tax discount rate – Freehold 6.0% 7.0%
Pre-tax discount rate – Leasehold 8.1% 9.6%
Pre-tax discount rate – Cornish Orchards 10.3% 10.3%
Pre-tax discount rate – Stable Pizza and Cider Limited 17.4% –  82  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
10. Intangible Assets continued
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing on an estate and divisional cash-generating unit level. This   represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Recoverable amount is based on a calculation   of value in use based upon the budget for the forthcoming financial year approved by senior management. For the Gales and Jacomb Guinness Estate cash flows  beyond the budget period are extrapolated in perpetuity on the assumption that the growth rate does not exceed the average long term growth rate for the   relevant markets. For Cornish Orchards the cash flows beyond the budget period are based on a five-year plan that was approved by senior management and   reflect the long term growth of the business following the significant investment and expansion strategy currently in place for the business. The pre-tax discount  rate applied to cash flow projections is based on the Directors’ assessment of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and current market conditions.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the assumptions in respect of achievement of budgeted cash flows, growth rate and discount rate. The   calculation of value in use is also dependent upon the following assumptions: sales volume; gross margin in managed premises; barrelage and rent projections   in tenanted premises; wage cost in managed premises; and capital expansion in Cornish Orchards. Gross margins are based on historical performance levels.   All of the key assumptions above have their assigned values based on management knowledge and historical information.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
Management have considered reasonable changes in key assumptions used in their calculations of value in use. They have concluded that such changes will   not result in an impairment to the Jacomb Guinness, Gales, Cornish Orchards or the Stable Pizza and Cider Limited cash-generating units at 28 March 2015.
11. Property, Plant and Equipment
Group 
Land &
buildings
£m
Plant,
machinery
& vehicles
£m
Containers,
fixtures &
fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 March 2013 390.8  33.5  113.4  537.7 
Additions 15.5  1.5  12.9  29.9 
Acquisitions (note 17) 5.9  1.1  –  7.0 
Disposals (1.7) (0.3) (5.6) (7.6) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (1.4)  – (0.2) (1.6) 
At 29 March 2014 409.1  35.8  120.5  565.4 
Additions 11.2 2.7 18.6 32.5
Acquisitions (note 17) 19.7 –  1.8 21.5
Disposals (1.2) (0.7) (12.2) (14.1) 
At 28 March 2015 438.8 37.8  128.7 605.3
Depreciation and impairment
At 30 March 2013 24.7  20.9  77.3  122.9 
Provided during the year 2.5  2.0  9.6  14.1 
Impairment loss net of reversals 0.5  –  –  0.5 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.3)  – (0.1) (0.4) 
Disposals (1.0) (0.3) (5.2) (6.5) 
At 29 March 2014 26.4  22.6  81.6  130.6 
Provided during the year 2.8  2.0  10.7  15.5 
Disposals (0.3) (0.6) (11.8) (12.7) 
At 28 March 2015 28.9  24.0  80.5  133.4 
Net book value at 28 March 2015 409.9 13.8  48.2 471.9
Net book value at 29 March 2014 382.7  13.2  38.9  434.8 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 366.1  12.6  36.1  414.8   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  83
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
11. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Company 
Land &
buildings
£m
Plant,
machinery
& vehicles
£m
Containers,
fixtures &
fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 March 2013 390.7  33.4  111.9  536.0 
Additions 15.5  1.1  12.9  29.5 
Acquisitions (note 17) 5.5  –  –  5.5 
Disposals (1.7) (0.3) (5.6) (7.6) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (1.4)  – (0.2) (1.6) 
At 29 March 2014 408.6  34.2  119.0  561.8 
Additions 10.8 2.1 16.7 29.6
Acquisitions (note 17) 19.7 – 0.4 20.1
Disposals (1.2) (0.6) (12.2) (14.0) 
At 28 March 2015 437.9 35.7 123.9 597.5
Depreciation and impairment
At 30 March 2013 24.6  20.9  75.7  121.2 
Provided during the year 2.4  1.9  9.6  13.9 
Impairment loss net of reversal 0.5  –  –  0.5 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.3)  – (0.1) (0.4) 
Disposals (1.0) (0.3) (5.2) (6.5) 
At 29 March 2014 26.2  22.5  80.0  128.7 
Provided during the year 2.6 1.8 10.5 14.9
Disposals (0.3) (0.6) (11.9) (12.8)
At 28 March 2015 28.5 23.7 78.6 130.8
Net book value at 28 March 2015 409.4 12.0 45.3 466.7
Net book value at 29 March 2014 382.4  11.7  39.0  433.1 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 366.1  12.5  36.2  414.8
Group and Company
Interest capitalised
The amount of interest capitalised to date is £194,000 (2014: £164,000). The amount of interest capitalised in the year was £30,000 (2014: £64,000) at a rate   of 2%.
Assets under construction
Included in the cost of property, plant and equipment at 28 March 2015 are amounts of £0.4 million (2014: £1.7 million) relating to one (2014: three) property   development in the course of construction.
Impairment
The Group considers each trading outlet to be a cash-generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. In assessing   whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair   value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value   in use.
During the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015, the Group recognised an impairment loss of £0.7 million (2014: £1.8 million) in respect of the write down of   licensed properties purchased in recent years where their asset values exceeded either fair value less costs to sell or their value in use. The impairment losses   were driven principally by changes in the local competitive environment in which the pubs are situated. Following an improvement in trading performance   and an increase in the amounts of estimated future cash flows of certain previously impaired sites, reversals of £0.7 million were recognised during the   52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £1.3 million).   The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are those detailed in note 10. 84  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
11. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
The value in use calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used. The Directors consider a movement of 1% in the discount rate and 0.5% in the growth rate   to be reasonable with reference to current market yield curves and the current economic conditions. The impact is set out as follows:
Impact on impairment of asset at risk – increase/(decrease)
2015
£m
2014
£m
Increase discount rate by 1% 1.4 1.5 
Decrease discount rate by 1% (0.6) (0.6) 
Increase growth rate by 0.5% (1.5) (0.6) 
Decrease growth rate by 0.5% 0.6 0.4 
12. Investment Properties
Group and
Company
Freehold
and leasehold
properties
£m
Cost
At 30 March 2013 5.0 
Acquisitions (note 17) 0.5 
At 29 March 2014 5.5 
At 28 March 2015 5.5
Depreciation and impairment
At 30 March 2013 0.8 
At 29 March 2014 0.8 
Provided during the year 0.1
At 28 March 2015 0.9
Net book value at 28 March 2015 4.6 
Net book value at 29 March 2014 4.7 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 4.2 
Fair value at 28 March 2015 10.9 
Fair value at 29 March 2014 10.7 
Fair value at 30 March 2013 8.2
The fair value of investment properties has been estimated by the Directors, based on the rental income earned on the properties during the year and average   yields earned on comparable properties from publicly available information, which is a Level 3 fair value valuation technique. An independent valuation of the   properties has not been performed.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  85
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
12. Investment Properties continued
Impairment
The Group considers each trading outlet to be a CGU and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. In assessing whether an asset has   been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell   and its value in use.   During the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015, the Group did not impair any investment properties (2014: £nil).
Investment Property Income
The properties are let on both landlord and tenant repairing leases. Amounts recognised in the profit for the financial year relating to rental income from   investment properties are as follows:
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Rental income 0.5 0.5
Direct operating expenses (0.2) (0.3)
All direct operating expenses relate to properties that generate rental income.
13. Derivative Financial Instruments
Group and Company
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Interest rate swaps 0.3  0.8 0.3  0.8 
Total financial assets within non-current assets 0.3  0.8 0.3  0.8 
Stable share purchase option (3.0)  – – – 
Interest rate swaps (2.9) (0.8) (2.9) (0.8) 
Foreign currency contracts (0.2) – (0.2) – 
Total financial liabilities within non-current liabilities (6.1) (0.8) (3.1) (0.8) 
Details of the interest rate swap and cap are provided in note 26 C(i).
14. Other Non-Current Assets
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Loans to customers due after one year 0.3  0.4 
15. Investments in Subsidiaries
Cost
£m
 Provision
£m
Net book
value
£m
Company
At 30 March 2013 92.0 (0.2)  91.8 
Additions 3.0  –  3.0 
At 29 March 2014 and at 28 March 2015 95.0 (0.2)  94.8  86  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
15. Investments in Subsidiaries continued
Principal subsidiary undertakings Holding Proportion held Nature of business
Griffin Catering Services Limited £1 ordinary shares 100% (indirect) Managed houses service company
Stable Pizza and Cider Limited £0.01 ordinary shares 54% Holding company
£3.50 ‘B’ ordinary shares 100%
Stable Bar and Restaurant Limited £1 ordinary shares 51% (indirect) Restaurant ownership and management
Cornish Orchards Limited £1 ordinary shares 100% Production of cider and soft drinks
George Gale & Co. Limited £1 ordinary shares 100% Non-trading subsidiary
25p ‘A’ ordinary shares 100%
£10 preference shares 100%
Jacomb Guinness Limited £1 ordinary shares 100% Non-trading subsidiary
45 Woodfield Limited £1 ordinary shares 100% (indirect) Non-trading subsidiary
Grand Canal Trading Limited £1 ordinary shares 100% (indirect) Non-trading subsidiary
The above companies are register ed and operate in England and Wales.
16. Non-Controlling Interest
Set out below are the movements i n the minority interest for the Stable Pizza and Cider Limited group in the year.
£m
At 29 March 2014 –
Share of loss (0.1) 
Adjustments arising from change in non-controlling interest (3.0) 
At 28 March 2015 (3.1) 
The adjustment relates to the initial recognition of The Stable Pizza and Cider Limited put and call option, which fully vests in two to five years.
17. Business Combinations
During the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 the Company has individually acquired seven new pubs for a combined consideration of £21.6 million, all of which   have been treated as business combinations as they were operating as a business at the point the Company acquired them.   On 9 June 2014 the Company purchased a 51% holding in the Stable Pizza and Cider Limited which is a casual dinning restaurant specialising in pizzas and   cider. The business was purch ased as it complements the Group’s current business whilst diversifying the business and increasing the geographic footprint.
2015 2014
Stable Pizza
and Cider
Limited Pubs
Cornish
Orchards
Sierra
Nevada
distribution
rights Pubs
Number of pubs purchased 7 3
Provisional fair value £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 1.4 20.1 1.5  –  5.5 
Investment properties – – –  –  0.5 
Intangible assets –  1.5  –  1.2  1.1 
Current assets 0.3  –  0.7  –  – 
Net debt (0.6)  – (0.5)  –  – 
Deferred revenue, trade and other payables (1.2)  – (1.3)  –  – 
Goodwill 3.7  –  2.6  –  – 
Consideration 3.6  21.6  3.0  1.2  7.1 
Satisfied by:
Cash 3.6  21.6  2.1  0.4  7.1 
Contingent consideration –  –  0.9  0.8  – 
Total 3.6  21.6  3.0  1.2  7.1   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  87
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
17. Business Combinations continued
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Stable Pizza and Cider Limited reflects the future growth of the company.
Costs associated with the acquisitions of £1.2 million have been charged to operating exceptional items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the 52 weeks  ended 28 March 2015. These comprised primarily stamp duty, legal and other property fees (note 5).
The acquisitions have contributed the following operating profit to the Group in the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 from the date of acquisition:
2015 2014
Stable Pizza
and Cider
Limited
£m
Pubs
£m
Cornish
Orchards
£m
Sierra
Nevada
distribution
rights
£m
Pubs
£m
Operating (loss)/profit (0.4)  0.8  0.1  –  0.1 
It is not practical to identify the related cash flows, revenue and profit on an annualised basis as the months for which the businesses have been owned are not   representative of the annualised figures. The pre-acquisition trading results are not indicative of the trading expected going forwards following the significant   redevelopment of the pubs and capital investment in Stable Pizza and Cider Limited by the Group, therefore pro forma trading results have not been included.
18. Inventories
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials, beer and cider in progress 1.7 1.5 
Beer, wines and spirits 5.7 6.4 
Stock at retail outlets 3.2 2.7 
 10.6  10.6 
The difference between purchase price or production cost and their replacement cost is not material.
19. Trade and Other Receivables
Group and Company
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Trade receivables 12.6  12.6  12.5  12.6 
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings –  – 9.0 – 
Other receivables 1.6  1.3  1.6  1.3 
Prepayments and accrued income 3.5 4.4 3.3  4.4 
 17.7  18.3  26.4  18.3 
Company amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings of £8.8 million (2014: £nil million) have no fixed repayment date. Interest is payable on the balance at the   higher of the Bank of England base rate plus 4% or 8%.   The trade receivables balance above is shown net of the provision for bad debts. As a general rule the Group provides fully against all trade receivables which   are over six months overdue. In addition to this there are individual specific provisions against balances which are considered by management to be at risk   of default.   The movements on this bad debt provision during the year are summarised below:
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables provision at 29 March 2014 1.5  1.4 
Increase in provision recognised in profit and loss 0.1 0.1 
Amounts written off during the year (0.2) –
Trade receivables provision at 28 March 2015 1.4  1.5  88  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
19. Trade and Other Receivables continued
The provision for trade receivables is recorded in the accounts separately from the gross receivable. The contractual ageing of the trade receivables balance   is as follows:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Current 13.4 13.2 13.3 13.2
Overdue up to 30 days 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Overdue between 30 and 60 days 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Overdue more than 60 days 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.6
Trade receivables before provision 14.0  14.1  13.9  14.1 
Less provision (1.4)  (1.5) (1.4) (1.5) 
Trade receivables net of provision 12.6 12.6 12.5  12.6 
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are trade receivables with a carrying value of £0.3 million (2014: £0.3 million) which are overdue at the   Balance Sheet date for which the Group has not provided as the Group considers these amounts to be recoverable.
In addition, there are loans to customers included in other receivables of £0.3 million (2014: £0.3 million) due within one year and £0.4 million (2014: £0.6 million)  due in more than one year, against which there is a provision of £0.3 million (2014: £0.3 million).
20. Assets Classified as Held For Sale
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Investment property –  –  –  – 
Property, plant and equipment –  1.2  –  1.2 
–  1.2  –  1.2 
The movements in assets classified as held for sale during the year are summarised below:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Assets held for sale at the start of the year 1.2  0.6  1.2  0.6 
Assets disposed during the year (1.2) (0.6) (1.2) (0.6) 
Transfer from property, plant and equipment –  1.2  –  1.2 
Assets held for sale at the end of the year –  1.2  – 1.2  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  89
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
21. Trade and Other Payables
Due within one year:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Trade payables 19.4  18.0 18.9 18.0 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings –  –  97.6  94.5 
Other tax and social security 9.1  8.4  9.1  8.4 
Other payables 9.2  8.2  9.1  8.2 
Accruals 11.5  11.5  11.2  11.3 
49.2  46.1 145.9 140.4 
Company amounts due to subsidiary undertakings of £97.5 million (2014: £94.5 million) have no fixed repayment date. Interest is payable on the balance at 3%   above the Bank of England base rate. All other significant trade and other receivables and trade and other payables balances are due within one year and are at   nil rate of interest.
Due in more than one year:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Deferred revenue 0.4  0.4 – –
Deferred revenue relates to government grants received for the purchase and construction of plant, property and equipment by Cornish Orchards Limited.   There are no unfulfilled conditions and contingencies attached to these amounts.
22. Cash, Borrowings and Net Debt
Cash and Short Term Deposits
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 5.1  4.1 4.8 4.1 
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, as above. Cash at bank earns interest   at floating rates.
Borrowings 
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Bank loans 140.0  116.2  140.0  116.2 
Other loans 0.2  0.2 – –
Debenture stock 25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9 
Preference shares 1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6 
Total borrowings 167.7  143.9  167.5  143.7 
Analysed as:
Borrowings within current liabilities 20.0 – 20.0 –
Borrowings within non-current liabilities 147.7  143.9  147.5  143.7 
167.7 143.9 167.5 143.7 
All borrowings at both year ends are denominated in Sterling and where appropriate are stated net of issue costs. Further information on borrowings is given   in note 26. 90  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22. Cash, Borrowings and Net Debt continued
Bank Loans
Group and Company
On 19 August 2014 the Company entered into £160.0 million of new bank facilities to replace its existing facilities. The new facilities were drawn down and   the existing facilities repaid in August 2014. The new facilities have a five-year fixed term expiring in August 2019 and have no amortisation requirements.     At 28 March 2015, £39.0 million (2014: £33.5 million) of the total of £160.0 million (2014: £150.0 million) committed bank loan facility was available and undrawn.
On 19 August the Company entered into a £20.0 million facility with a one-year fixed term expiring in August 2015. At 28 March 2015 the facility was fully drawn.
The bank loans at 28 March 2015 are unsecured, and are repayable as shown in the table below. Interest is payable at LIBOR plus a margin, which varies   dependent on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. The variable rate interest payments under the loans have been partially swapped for fixed interest payments   and a proportion of the remaining variable interest payments have also been capped. Details of the swap and cap arrangements are given in note 26.
The bank loans are repayable as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
On demand or within one year 20.0  – 
Current liabilities 20.0  – 
In the first to second years inclusive –  116.5 
In the third to fifth year inclusive 121.0  – 
Less: bank loan arrangement fees (1.0) (0.3) 
Non-current liabilities 120.0  116.2 
Debenture Stock
Group and Company
The debenture stocks are secured on specified fixed and floating assets of the Company and are redeemable on maturity.
Debenture stock repayable after five years:
2015
£m
2014
£m
10.70% 1st Mortgage Debenture Stock 2023 6.0  6.0
6.875% Debenture Stock 2028 (1st floating charge) 20.0  20.0
Less: discount on issue (0.1) (0.1) 
Non-current liabilities 25.9  25.9
Preference Shares
The Company’s preference shares are classified as debt. The shares are not redeemable and are included in borrowings within non-current liabilities.   See note 24 for further details of the preference shares.   Analysis of Net Debt
Group
At 29 March
2014
£m
Cash flows
£m
Non-cash
1
£m
At 28 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short term deposits 4.1 1.0 – 5.1 
4.1 1.0 – 5.1 
Debt
Bank loans (116.2) (23.4) (0.4) (140.0)
Other loans (0.2) 0.5 (0.5) (0.2)
Debenture stock (25.9) – – (25.9)
Preference shares (1.6) – – (1.6)
(143.9) (22.9) (0.9) (167.7)
Net debt (139.8) (21.9) (0.9) (162.6)
1
    Non-cash movements relate to the amortisation of arrangement fees, arrangement fees accrued and the acquisition of The Stable Pizza and Cider Limited during the year.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  91
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
22. Cash, Borrowings and Net Debt continued
Group
At 30 March
2013
£m
Cash flows
£m
Non-cash
1
£m
At 29 March
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short term deposits 4.3 (0.2) – 4.1 
4.3 (0.2) – 4.1 
Debt
Bank loans (112.5) (3.4) (0.3) (116.2)
Other loans – 0.3 (0.5) (0.2)
Debenture stock (25.8) – (0.1) (25.9)
Preference shares (1.6) – – (1.6)
(139.9) (3.1) (0.9) (143.9)
Net debt (135.6) (3.3) (0.9) (139.8)
1
    Non-cash movements relate to the amortisation of arrangement fees, arrangement fees accrued and the acquisition of Cornish Orchards Limited.
The Company net debt is as above excluding ‘Other Loans’ and cash of £0.3 million (2014: £nil) which are held by subsidiary companies. Company net debt as at  31 March 2015 was £162.7 million (2014: £139.6 million).
23. Pensions
a) Retirement Benefit Plans – Group and Company
The Group operates one funded defined benefit pension scheme, the Fuller Smith & Turner Pension Plan (the ”Scheme”). The plan is defined benefit in nature,  with assets held in separate professionally managed, trustee-administered funds. The Scheme is an HM Revenue & Customs registered pension plan and subject   to standard United Kingdom pension and tax law. On 1 January 2015 the plan was closed to future accrual resulting in a curtailment gain of £1.2 million.
The Group also operates three defined contribution stakeholder pension plans for its employees. The Fuller’s Stakeholder Pension Plan was set up for new   employees of the Parent Company after the closure of the Fuller, Smith & Turner Pension Plan to new entrants on 1 August 2005. The Griffin Stakeholder   Pension Plan operates for those employees of a Group subsidiary. The Gales 2001 scheme was set up following the closure of the Gales defined benefit   scheme in 2001. The Group offers workplace pensions to all employees who are not members of the three defined contribution stakeholder pension plans.   The Group offers these pensions through the National Employment Savings Trust (“NEST”).
The Group also pays benefits to a number of former employees which are unfunded. The Directors consider these benefits to be defined benefit in nature   and the full defined benefit liability is recognised on the Balance Sheet.
Group and Company
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Total amounts charged in respect of pensions in the period
Charged to income statement:
Defined benefit scheme – operating profit 1.2  1.5 
Defined benefit scheme – exceptional items (1.2) –
Defined benefit scheme – net finance charge 0.8  0.6 
Defined contribution schemes – total operating charge 0.8 0.3 
1.6 2.4 
Charge/(credit) to equity:
Defined benefit schemes – net actuarial losses 8.3 4.1 
Total pension charge 9.9 6.5  92  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
23. Pensions continued
b) Defined Contribution Stakeholder Pension Plans – Group and Company
The total cost charged to income in respect of the defined contribution stakeholder schemes is shown above.
c) Defined Benefit Plans – Group and Company
The Scheme provides pensions and lump sums to members on retirement and to their dependants upon death.
Trustees are appointed by both the Company and the Scheme’s membership and act in the interest of the Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, including the   members and the Company. The Trustees are also responsible for the investment of the Scheme’s assets.   The Company pays the costs as determined by regular actuarial valuations. The Trustees are required to use prudent assumptions to value the liabilities and   costs of the Scheme whereas the accounting assumptions must be best estimates.
Responsibility for making good any deficit on the Scheme lies with the Company and this introduces a number of risks for the Company. The major risks are:   •  Interest and investment risk – The value of the Scheme’s assets are subject to volatility in equity prices. The Scheme has diversified its investments to reduce   the impact of volatility and variable interest return rates.
•  Inflation risk – The defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation so higher rates would result in a higher defined benefit obligation.   •  Longevity risk – An increase over the assumptions applied will increase the defined benefit obligation.
The Company and Trustees are aware of these risks and manage them through appropriate investment and funding strategies. The Trustees manage governance   and operational risks through a number of internal controls policies.   The Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every three years. The next actuarial valuation is due to be carried out on 30 July   2016. These actuarial valuations are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and so include deliberate margins for prudence.   A formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at 30 July 2013. The results of that valuation have been projected to 28 March 2015 by a qualified independent   actuary. The figures in the following disclosures were measured using the Projected Unit Method.
The Scheme has not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or other assets in use by the Group.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions used in the 2015 valuation of the Scheme are set out below:
Mortality assumptions
2015
Years
2014
Years
Current pensioners (at 65) – males 22.2 22.1
Current pensioners (at 65) – females 24.4 24.3
Future pensioners (at 65) – males 23.5 23.5
Future pensioners (at 65) – females 25.9 25.8
The Scheme is now closed to future accrual. The average ago of members who were active at closure is 54 for males and 49 for females. The average age of all   non-pensioners is 55.
Key financial assumptions used in the valuation of the Scheme 2015 2014
Rate of increase in salaries 2.50% 3.10%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.00% 3.30%
Discount rate 3.25% 4.45%
Inflation assumption – RPI 3.00% 3.30%
Inflation assumption – CPI 2.00% 2.60%
The present value of the Scheme liabilities is sensitive to the assumptions used, as follows:
Impact on Scheme liabilities – increase/(decrease)
2015
£m
2014
£m
Increase rate of salaries by 0.5% n/a
1
1.6 
Increase rate of pensions in payment by 0.5% 6.4 5.2 
Increase discount rate by 1.0% (20.0) (16.5) 
Increase inflation assumption by 0.5% 3.8
2
1.5 
Increase life expectancies by 1 year 5.3 3.9 
1
   
  Due to the Scheme closing to future accrual on 1 January 2015, there are no longer any active members in the Scheme. As the members who were active at closure did not maintain a salary link on   their past service benefits, the future salary increase assumptions no longer has an impact on the Scheme’s liabilities.
2
   
  For members who were active at closure, their pensions now increase in deferment in line with CPI inflation. This has had an impact on the inflation sensitivity increasing it significantly compared to   the sensitivity quoted for the 29 March 2014 figures as it now affects more members.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  93
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
23. Pensions continued
Assets in the Schemes
28 March
2015
£m
29 March
2014
£m
Corporate bonds 20.7 17.8
UK equities 37.0 34.3
Overseas equities 13.2 11.1
Absolute return fund 29.5 27.9
Property 0.9 0.7
Cash 0.9 0.6
Annuities 1.3 1.2
Total market value of assets 103.5 93.6
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of Scheme assets 103.5 93.6
Present value of Scheme liabilities (127.9) (110.8)
Deficit in the Scheme (24.4) (17.2)
Included within the total present value of Group and Company Scheme liabilities of £127.9 million (2014: £110.8 million) are liabilities of £3.1 million   (2014: £2.9 million) which are entirely unfunded.
Defined benefit obligation Fair Scheme of plan assets Net defined benefit (deficit)
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance at beginning of the year (110.8) (101.9) 93.6 88.9 (17.2) (13.0)
Included in profit and loss
Current service cost (1.1) (1.5) –  – (1.1) (1.5)
Curtailment gain 1.2 –  –  – 1.2 – 
Net interest cost (4.9) (4.7) 4.1 4.1 (0.8) (0.6)
(4.8) (6.2) 4.1 4.1 (0.7) (2.1)
Included in Other Comprehensive Income
Actuarial gains/(losses) relating to:
Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets – – 8.0 1.9 8.0 1.9
Experience gains arising on Scheme liabilities (16.3) 0.5 –  – (16.3) 0.5
Losses arising on changes in demographic assumptions – (6.5) –  – – (6.5)
(16.3) (6.0) 8.0 1.9 (8.3) (4.1)
Other
Employer contributions –  – 1.0 1.3 1.0 1.3
Employer special contributions –  – 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7
Employee contributions (0.3) (0.4) 0.3 0.4 –  – 
Benefits paid 4.3 3.7 (4.3) (3.7) –  – 
4.0 3.3 (2.2) (1.3) 1.8 2.0
Balance at end of the year (127.9) (110.8) 103.5 93.6 (24.4) (17.2)
The weighted average duration of the Scheme’s liabilities at the end of the period is 20 years (2014: 20 years).
The total contributions to the Scheme in the next financial year are expected to be £1.1 million for the Group and the Company. These payments are to be   made as part of a deficit recovery plan in place until March 2021 as agreed between the Trustees and the Group. 94  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
24. Preference Share Capital
Group and Company
First 6%
cumulative
preference
share
of £1 each
Second 8%
cumulative
preference
share
of £1 each Total
Authorised, issued and fully paid share capital
Number
000’s
Number
000’s
Number
000’s
Number authorised and in issue:
At 30 March 2013, 29 March 2014 and 28 March 2015 400  1,200  1,600 
Monetary amount: £m  £m  £m 
At 30 March 2013, 29 March 2014 and 28 March 2015 0.4  1.2  1.6
The first 6% cumulative preference shares of £1 each are entitled to first payment of a fixed cumulative dividend and on winding up to a return of paid capital   plus arrears of dividends. The second 8% cumulative preference shares of £1 each are entitled to second payment of a fixed cumulative dividend and on   winding up a return of capital paid up (plus a premium calculated by reference to an average quoted price on the Stock Exchange for the previous six months)   plus arrears of dividends.
Preference shareholders may only vote in limited circumstances: principally on winding up, alteration of class rights or on unpaid preference dividends.   Preference shares cannot be redeemed by the holders, other than on winding up.
25. Provisions
a) Onerous Lease and Contingent Consideration
Group and Company
Onerous lease
Contingent 
consideration Total
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 29 March 2014 1.7  2.8  1.7  –  3.4  2.8 
Arising during the year 0.3  –  –  1.7  0.3  1.7 
Released during the year – (0.9)  –  –  – (0.9) 
Utilised (1.0) (0.4)  –  – (1.0) (0.4) 
Unwinding of discount 0.1  0.2  0.1  – 0.2 0.2 
At 28 March 2015 1.1  1.7  1.8  1.7 2.9 3.4 
Analysed as: £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due within one year 0.2  0.9  0.2  0.3  0.4  1.2 
Due in more than one year 0.9  0.8  1.6  1.4  2.5  2.2 
1.1  1.7  1.8  1.7 2.9 3.4 
The onerous lease provision is recognised in respect of leasehold properties where the lease contracts are deemed to be onerous. Provision is made for the   discounted value of the lower of the unavoidable lease costs and the losses expected to be incurred by the Group.
The contingent consideration is recognised in respect of the fair value of additional amounts which are only payable on completion of certain performance   targets for business combinations.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  95
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
25. Provisions continued
b) Deferred Tax Provision
The deferred tax included in the Balance Sheet is as follows:
Group
Asset 
2015
£m
Liability
2015
£m
Net
2015
£m
Asset 
2014
£m
Liability
2014
£m
Net
2014
£m
Deferred tax
Retirement benefit obligations 4.9 – 4.9 3.4  –  3.4 
Tax losses carried forward 0.4 – 0.4 0.6  –  0.6 
Employee share schemes 1.0 – 1.0 0.8  –  0.8 
Financial (liabilities)/assets 0.6 – 0.6 0.1 (0.2) (0.1) 
Accelerated tax depreciation – (12.4) (12.4) – (13.2) (13.2) 
Rolled over capital gains – (8.9) (8.9) – (9.2) (9.2) 
Others 1.5 – 1.5 1.3  –  1.3 
8.4 (21.3) (12.9) 6.2 (22.6) (16.4) 
The deferred tax included in the Company Balance Sheet is the same as the Group with the following exceptions:
Company
Asset 
2015
£m
Liability
2015
£m
Net
2015
£m
Asset 
2014
£m
Liability
2014
£m
Net
2014
£m
Deferred tax 
Tax losses carried forward 0.2 – 0.2 0.5  –  0.5 
Total deferred tax asset/(liability) 8.2 (21.3) (13.1) 6.1 (22.6) (16.5)
26. Financial Instruments
Details of the Group’s Treasury function are included in the Financial Review’s discussion of financial risks and treasury policies on page 20.
The accounting treatment of the Group’s financial instruments is detailed in note 1.   a) Capital Management – Group and Company
As described in note 1, the Group considers its capital to comprise the following:
Capital 
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Ordinary share capital 22.8 22.8 22.8 22.8
Share premium 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8
Capital redemption reserve 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1
Hedging reserve (2.4) – (2.4) –
Retained earnings 270.0 256.2 241.4 229.0
Preference shares 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6
299.9 288.5 269.7 269.7
In managing its capital the primary objective is to ensure that the Group is able to continue to operate as a going concern and to maximise return to shareholders   through a combination of capital growth, distributions and the payment of preference dividends to its preference shareholders. The Group seeks to maintain   a ratio of debt and equity that balances risks and returns at an acceptable level and maintains sufficient funds to meet working capital targets, investment   requirements and comply with lending covenants. The Group bought back £7.1 million of shares in the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 (2014: £5.3 million),   of which £0.9 million related to purchases made by or on behalf of employee share ownership trusts (2014: £1.1 million). As a minimum, the Board reviews   the Group’s dividend policy twice yearly and reviews the treasury position at every Board meeting. 96  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
26. Financial Instruments continued
b) Categories of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities as recognised at the Balance Sheet date may also be categorised as follows:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Derivative financial assets hedge accounted 0.3  0.8  0.3  0.8 
Loans and other receivables in scope of IAS 39 0.3  0.4  0.3  0.4 
Total non-current assets 0.6  1.2  0.6  1.2 
Current assets
Loans and other receivables:
Trade and other receivables in scope of IAS 39 12.8  12.8 21.5 12.8 
Cash and short term deposits 5.1  4.1 4.8 4.1 
Total current assets 17.9  16.9 26.3 16.9 
Total financial assets 18.5  18.1 26.9 18.1 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables in scope of IAS 39 31.3  30.7  128.0  125.0 
Total carried at amortised cost 31.3  30.7  128.0  125.0 
Total current liabilities 31.3  30.7  128.0  125.0 
Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities hedge accounted 3.1 0.8 3.1 0.8
Put and call option 3.0 – – –
Carried at amortised cost:
Other payables in scope of IAS 39 0.9  0.8  0.9  0.8 
Loans and debenture stock 146.1  142.3  145.9  142.1 
Preference shares 1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6 
Total carried at amortised cost 148.6  144.7  148.4  144.5 
Total non-current liabilities 154.7 145.5  151.5 145.3
Total financial liabilities 186.0 176.2  279.5  270.3 
There is no set off of financial assets and liabilities as shown above.
c) Financial Risks – Group And Company
The main risks associated with the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are set out below, as are the Group’s policies for their management. Derivative   instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of financial instruments in accordance with Group policy.
(i) Interest Rate Risk
The Group manages its cost of borrowings using a mixture of fixed rates, variable rates and interest rate caps. The current Group policy is that a minimum of   50% of total outstanding borrowings should be at a fixed or capped rate of interest. This is achieved by both taking out interest rate swaps and caps with third   parties and by loan instruments that require the Group to pay a fixed rate. Fixed rates do not expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, but do not enjoy a  reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling. Interest rate caps limit the maximum rate payable but require payment of a lump sum   premium.  The  fair  value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowings means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs if debt is paid off earlier than anticipated. Floating   rate  borrowings, although not exposed to changes in fair value, expose the Group to cash flow risk following rises in interest rates and cost.
The debentures totalling £25.9 million (2014: £25.9 million) are at fixed rates. The bank loans totalling £141.0 million (2014: £116.2 million), net of arrangement   fees, are at floating rates. At the year end, after taking account of interest rate swaps and caps, 75% (2014: 73%) of the Group’s bank loans and 79% (2014: 78%)   of gross borrowings were at fixed or capped rates.
Interest rate swaps 
The Group has entered into interest rate swap agreements, where the Group pays a fixed rate and receives 1 month or 3 month LIBOR, in order to hedge the   risk of variation in interest cash flows on its borrowings. At the Balance Sheet date £65.0 million of the Group and Company’s borrowings (2014: £65.0 million)   were hedged by interest rate swaps at a blended fixed rate of 1.75% (2014: 1.75%). Of the swaps active at 28 March 2015 £40.0 million expire in 2015 and   £25.0 million expire in 2017. Additionally, the Group has entered into interest rate swap arrangements with forward start dates. In December 2012 the Group   entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge the risk of interest rate variation on £20.0 million of the Group’s borrowings at a rate of 2.25%,   commencing in 2015 and expiring in 2022. In July 2013 the Group also entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge the risk of interest rate variation   on a further £20.0 million of the Group’s borrowings at a rate of 2.55%, commencing in 2015 and expiring in 2020.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  97
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
26. Financial Instruments continued
Interest rate cap
The Group has entered into interest rate cap agreements in order to hedge the risk of variation in interest cash flows on its borrowings. At the Balance Sheet   date £20.0 million (2014: £20.0 million) of the Group and Company’s borrowings were hedged by an interest rate cap at a fixed rate of 4.00% (2014: 4.00%).   The cap expires in 2015. A further £20.0 million of the Group and Company’s borrowing were hedged by an interest cap at a fixed rate of 2.1%, commencing   in 2015 and expiring in 2020.
The interest rate swaps and cap are expected to impact the Income Statement in line with the liquidity risk table shown in section (iv) below. The interest rate   swap cash flow hedges were assessed as being highly effective at 28 March 2015 and a net unrealised gain of £3.0 million (2014: £2.4 million loss) has been   recorded in Other Comprehensive Income. The interest rate cap cash flow hedge is not designated as a cash flow hedge for hedge accounting purposes and   no net unrealised gain/loss (2014: £nil) was recorded in the Income Statement.
Sensitivity – Group and Company
The Group borrows in Sterling at market rates. 3 month Sterling LIBOR rate during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 ranged between 0.53% and 0.57%. The   Directors consider 1.0% to be a reasonable possible increase in rates and 0.5% to be a reasonable possible decrease in rates, with reference to market yield   curves and the current economic conditions.
The annualised effect of these changes to interest rates on the floating rate debt at the Balance Sheet date, all other variables being constant, are as follows:
Impact on post-tax profit and net equity – increase/(decrease)
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company*
2015
£m
Company*
2014
£m
Decrease interest rate by 0.5% 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.6 
Increase interest rate by 1.0% (0.6) (0.4) (1.4) (1.1) 
*The Company has substantial interest bearing payables due to subsidiary companies (note 21).
(ii) Foreign Currency Risk
The Group buys and sells goods and services denominated in non-Sterling currencies principally US dollar, Euro and Australian dollar. As a result, movements   in exchange rates can affect the value of the Group’s revenues and purchases.
The Group policy on covering foreign currency exposure is included in the Financial Review’s discussion of financial risks and treasury policies on page 20.     As a minimum it buys or sells forward the net known value of all committed purchase or sales orders. In addition, the Group will usually buy or sell a proportion   of the estimated sale or buy orders for the remaining part of the year to minimise its transactional currency exposures in non-Sterling currencies. Forward currency   contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged items. The Group does not trade in forward currency hedges.
At 28 March 2015 the Group and Company had open forward contracts to buy  €4.9 million (2014: buy  €3.7 million). These have a Sterling equivalent of   £3.8 million (2014: £3.1 million) and a net gain of £0.2 million (2014: £nil) when comparing the contractual rates with the year end exchange rates. At 28 March   2015 the Group and Company had open forward contracts to pay $1.0 million (2014: $nil). These have a Sterling equivalent of £0.7 million (2014: £nil) and a net   gain of £nil (2014: £nil) when comparing the contractual rates with year end exchange rates.
At 28 March 2015 the only significant foreign currency assets or liabilities were the following:
Group and Company
Cash deposits Trade receivables Trade payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Euro assets/(liabilities) 1.1 0.2 – – (0.7) (0.4) 
US dollar assets/(liabilities) 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.5 (0.2) (0.1)
(iii) Credit Risk
The risk of financial loss due to a counter party’s failure to honour its obligations arises principally in relation to transactions where the Group provides goods   and services on deferred payment terms, deposits surplus cash and enters into derivative contracts.   Group policies are aimed at minimising losses and deferred terms are only granted to customers who demonstrate an appropriate payment history and satisfy   credit worthiness procedures. Individual customers are subject to credit limits to control debt exposure. Credit insurance is taken out where appropriate for   wholesale customers and goods may also be sold on a cash with order basis.   Cash deposits with financial institutions for short periods and derivative transactions are only permitted with financial institutions approved by the Board.   There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their   carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Trade and other receivables
The Group records impairment losses on its trade receivables separately from gross receivables. Further detail is included in note 19.
(iv) Liquidity Risk
The Group minimises liquidity risk by managing cash generation, applying debtor collection targets, monitoring daily cash receipts and payments and setting   rolling cash forecasts. Investments have cash payback periods applied as part of a tightly controlled investment appraisal process. The Group’s rating with   credit agencies is excellent.
The Group has a mixture of long and short term borrowings and overdraft facilities. 16% (2014: 19%) of the Group’s borrowings are repayable after more than   five years, nil (2014: 81%) within the second to third years and 84% (2014: nil) within the third to fifth years.   98  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
26. Financial Instruments continued
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 28 March 2015 based on undiscounted contractual cash flows, including   interest payable. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the Balance Sheet date.
Group at 28 March 2015
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months
£m
3 to 12
months
£m
1 to 5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
1
– 1.2 3.6 133.2 42.7 180.7
Preference shares
2
– – 0.1 0.5 3.4 4.0
Trade and other payables 10.9 18.4 0.1 0.5 0.7 30.6
1
    Bank loans are included after taking account of the following cash flows in relation to the interest rate swap and cap held in respect of these borrowings:
Interest rate swaps and cap – 0.2 0.6 2.4 1.7 4.9
Group at 29 March 2014
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
1
 –  1.3  3.7  128.4  42.7  176.1 
Preference shares
2
–  –  0.1  0.5  3.4  4.0 
Trade and other payables 12.6  18.0  0.1  0.5  0.8  32.0 
1
    Bank loans are included after taking account of the following cash flows in relation to the interest rate swap and cap held in respect of these borrowings:   2
    The preference shares have no contractual repayment date. For the purposes of the table above interest payments have been shown for 20 years from the Balance Sheet date but no further.
Interest rate swaps and cap –  0.2  0.6  3.3  1.8  5.9 
The Company figures are as for the Group, except as follows:
Company at 28 March 2015
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months
£m
3 to 12
months
£m
1 to 5
years
£m
More
than 5
years
£m
Total
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings
3
97.5  –  –  –  –  97.5 
Trade and other payables 10.2 18.4 0.1 0.5 0.7 29.9
Company at 29 March 2014
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings
3
94.5  –  –  –  –  94.5 
3
    Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings have no fixed repayment date. Interest is payable on the balance at 3% above the Bank of England base rate.
Security – Group and Company
The 10.7% debentures 2023 are secured on property, plant and equipment with a net book value of £12.5 million (2014: £12.5 million). The 6.875% debentures   2028 are secured by a floating charge over the assets of the Company.
Covenants – Group and Company
The Group and Company are subject to a number of covenants in relation to their borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming  immediately repayable. These covenants inter alia specify maximum net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and minimum   earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to interest.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  99
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
26. Financial Instruments continued
d) Fair Value
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Group
Book value
2015
£m
Book value
2014
£m
Fair value
2015
£m
Fair value
2014
£m
Fair
value
Level
Financial assets
Cash 5.2  4.1  5.2  4.1 1
Trade and other receivables due within one year in scope of IAS 39 12.7  12.8  12.7  12.8 3
Loans and other receivables due in more than one year in scope of IAS 39 0.3  0.4  0.3  0.4 3
Interest rate swaps – 0.8 – 0.8 2
Interest rate cap 0.3 – 0.3 – 2
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables in scope of IAS 39 (32.4) (31.5) (32.4) (31.5) 3
Fixed rate borrowings (26.1) (26.1) (31.0) (31.0) 3
Floating rate borrowings (120.0) (116.2) (116.2) (116.2) 3
Preference shares (1.6) (1.6) (1.8) (1.8) 3
Interest rate swaps (2.9) (0.8) (2.9) (0.8) 2
Put and call option (3.0) – (3.0) – 3
Forward currency contract (0.2) – (0.2) – 2
The Company figures are as for the Group above, except as follows:
Company
Book value
2015
£m
Book value
2014
£m
Fair value
2015
£m
Fair value
2014
£m
Fair
value
Level
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables in scope of IAS 39 (129.4) (125.8) (129.4) (125.8) 3
Level 1 fair values are valuation techniques where inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at   measure data.
Level 2 fair values are valuation techniques where all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly,   but are not derived directly from quoted prices in active markets. The Group bases its valuations on information provided by financial institutions, who use   a variety of estimation techniques based on market conditions, such as interest rate expectations, existing at each balance sheet date.
Level 3 fair values are valuation techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are not observable. Derivative fair   values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets. The fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash   flows at prevailing interest rates. The fair values of preference shares have been calculated using the market interest rates. The fair values of cash, trade and   other receivables, loans and other receivables and trade and other payables are equivalent to their carrying value. The fair value of the put and call option has   been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of The Stable Pizza and Cider Limited. 100  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27. Share Capital and Reserves
a) Share Capital
Authorised, issued and fully paid
A’ ordinary
shares of
40p each
‘C’ ordinary
shares of
40p each
‘B’ ordinary
shares of
4p each Total
Number in issue
Number
000’s
 Number
000’s
 Number
000’s
 Number
000’s
At 30 March 2013 33,424 14,657 89,052 137,133 
Share conversions 64 (64)  –  – 
At 29 March 2014 33,488 14,593 89,052 137,133 
Share conversions 31 (31) –  – 
At 28 March 2015 33,519 14,562 89,052 137,133 
Proportion of total equity shares at 28 March 2015 24.5% 10.6% 64.9% 100%
Monetary amount £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 30 March 2013 13.3 5.9 3.6  22.8 
Share conversions 0.1 (0.1) –  – 
At 29 March 2014 13.4 5.8 3.6  22.8 
Share conversions – –  –  – 
At 28 March 2015 13.4 5.8 3.6  22.8
Share capital represents the nominal value proceeds received on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 40p and 4p ordinary shares.   The Company’s preference shares are classified as non-current liabilities in accordance with IFRS (see note 24).
The ordinary shareholders are entitled to be paid a dividend out of any surplus profits and to participate in surplus assets on winding up in proportion to the   nominal value of each class of share (‘B’ shares have one tenth of the nominal value of ‘A’ and ‘C’ shares).
All equity shares in the Company carry one vote per share, save that shares held in treasury have their voting rights suspended. The ‘A’ and ‘C’ shares have a   40p nominal value and the ‘B’ shares have a 4p nominal value so that a ‘B’ share dividend will be paid at 10% of the rate applying to ‘A’ and ‘C’ shares. The ‘A’   shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The ‘C’ shares carry a right for the holder to convert them to ‘A’ shares by written notice in the 30 day period   following the half year and preliminary announcements. The ‘B’ shares are not listed and have no conversion rights. In most circumstances the value of a ‘B’   share is deemed to be 10% of the value of the listed ‘A’ shares. The Trustee holding shares for participants of the LTIP currently waives dividends for shares held   during the initial three-year period. Dividends are not paid on shares held in treasury.
The Articles include provisions relating to the Company’s ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares which provide that shareholders who wish to transfer their shares may only do so if   the transfer is to another ‘B’ or ‘C’ shareholder, or if the transfer is to certain of that shareholder’s family members or their executors or administrators or, where   shares are held by trustees, to new trustees, or to the trustees of any employee share scheme, or if the Company is unable to identify another shareholder of   that class willing to purchase the shares within the specified period, to any person.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  101
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
27. Share Capital and Reserves continued
b) Own Shares
Own shares relate to shares held by independently managed employee share ownership trusts (“ESOTs”) together with the Company’s holding of treasury   shares. Shares are purchased by the ESOTs in order to satisfy potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) and Share Incentive Scheme (“SIP”).   Treasury shares are used, inter alia, to satisfy options under the Company’s share options schemes. The LTIP ESOT has waived its rights to dividends on   the shares it holds. Treasury shares have voting and dividend rights suspended. All own shares held, as below, are excluded from earnings and net assets   per share calculations.
Number
Treasury shares LTIP ESOT SIP ESOT Total
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000’s
‘B’ ordinary
4p shares
000’s
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000’s
‘B’ ordinary
4p shares
000’s
C’ ordinary
40p Shares
000’s
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000’s
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000’s
‘B’ ordinary
4p shares
000’s
‘C’ ordinary
40p shares
000’s
At 30 March 2013 1,206 – – 693 5 2 1,208 693 5 
Shares purchased 446 – –  415  5 69 515  415  5 
Shares transferred (167) – 167  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (314) – (167) (417) – (71) (552) (417)  – 
At 29 March 2014 1,171 – –  691  10  –  1,171  691  10 
Shares purchased 292  3,558  –  248 – 73  365 3,806 – 
Shares transferred (110) – 110  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (190) – (110) (266)  – (72) (372) (266)  – 
At 28 March 2015 1,163 3,558 –  673  10  1  1,164 4,231 10 
Monetary amount £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 March 2013 8.2 – –  0.5  –  –  8.2  0.5  – 
Shares purchased 4.2 – –  0.4  0.1  0.6  4.8  0.4  0.1 
Shares transferred (1.1) – 1.1  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (2.2) – (1.1) (0.4)  – (0.6) (3.9) (0.4)  – 
At 29 March 2014 9.1 – –  0.5  0.1  –  9.1  0.5  0.1 
Shares purchased 2.8 3.4 – 0.2  –  0.7  3.5 3.6 – 
Shares transferred (0.9) – 0.9  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (1.5) – (0.9) (0.2)  – (0.7) (3.1) (0.2)  – 
At 28 March 2015 9.5 3.4 –  0.5  0.1  –  9.5 3.9 0.1 
Market value at 28 March 
2015 11.9 3.6 –  0.7  0.1  –  11.9 4.3 0.1 
c) Other Capital Reserves
Share Premium Account
The balance in the share premium account represents the proceeds received above the nominal value on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital.
Capital Redemption Reserve
The capital redemption reserve balance arises from the buy-back of the Company’s own equity share capital.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve contains the effective portion of the cash flow hedge relationships incurred at the Balance Sheet date, net of tax. 102  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
28. Share Options and Share Schemes
The key points of each of the Group’s share schemes for grants up to 28 March 2015 are summarised below. All schemes are equity-settled. All disclosure   relates to both Group and Company. For the purposes of option and LTIP schemes, “Adjusted EPS” will normally be consistent with the post-tax earnings   per share excluding exceptional items as presented in the financial statements. However, the Remuneration Committee is authorised to make appropriate   adjustments to Adjusted EPS as applied to these schemes.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
This scheme grants options over shares at a discount of 20% on the average market price over the three days immediately prior to the date of offer. Employees   must save a regular amount each month. Savings are made over three or five years, at the participant’s choice. The right to buy shares at the discounted price   lasts for six months after the end of the savings contract. There are no performance conditions, other than continued employment.
Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
This is an unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme. If growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) by 9% over the performance   period of the option, then 40% of the award will vest. Vesting levels are then on a sliding scale, with 100% vesting occurring if growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds   growth in RPI by more than 21%. The performance period for grants under this scheme is three years. Options must be exercised within seven years of the end   of the performance period.
Executive Share Option Scheme
This is an approved Executive Share Option Scheme. The options vest if growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 9% or more, over the three-year   performance period of the option. The options must then be exercised within seven years after the end of the performance period.
LTIP
This plan awards free shares. Vesting is conditional on growth in Adjusted EPS exceeding growth in RPI by 9% or more over the three-year initial performance   period of the award. Vesting levels are on a sliding scale from 40% up to 100%, if growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in RPI by 24% or more. An independent  firm of advisors verify the vesting level each year. The initial vesting period is three years. After this time the shares may be passed to the plan participants,   as long as vesting conditions are met.   SIP
This plan awards free shares. The number of shares awarded, up to a maximum value of £3,000 per person per year, is based on length of service and salary.   The life of each plan is five years, after which shares are released to participants. There are no performance conditions as in almost all circumstances participants  can retain the shares awarded (although there may be tax consequences if within five years of the award).   Share-Based Payment Expense Recognised in the Year
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 is £2.6 million   (2014: £1.8 million). The whole of that expense arises from equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Movements in the Year
The following tables illustrate the number and weighted average exercise prices (“WAEP”) of, and movements in, each category of share instrument during   the year.   Market Value
The market value of the shares at 28 March 2015 was £10.20 (2014: £9.10).
A) SAYE
2015
Number
000’s
2015
WAEP
2014
Number
000’s
2014
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 394 £5.63 501 £4.69
Granted 110 £7.47 102 £7.24
Lapsed (29) £6.03 (46) £5.24
Exercised (127) £4.89 (163) £3.97
Outstanding at the end of the year 348 £6.43 394 £5.63
Exercisable at the end of the year – n/a – n/a
Weighted average share price for options exercised in the year £9.52 £9.46
Weighted average contractual life remaining for share options outstanding at the year end 4.02 years 2.54 years
Weighted average share price for options granted in the year £9.32 £9.43
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year £2.01 £1.97
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end
– from £4.64 £3.88
– to £7.47 £7.24  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  103
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
28. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
Outstanding share options granted to employees under the Saving Related Share Option Scheme are as follows:
Exercisable at
 Exercise price
40p shares
£
Number of ‘A’
ordinary
shares
under
option
2015
000’s
 Number of ‘A’
ordinary
shares
under
option
2014
000’s
September 2014 3.88 –  48 
September 2014 5.47 –  78 
September 2015 4.64 52  58 
September 2015 5.63 58  63 
September 2016 5.47 25  27 
September 2016 7.24 59  66 
September 2017 5.63 20  22 
September 2017 7.47 80  32 
September 2018 7.24 28 –
September 2019 7.47 26 –
348 394
B) Share Option Schemes
Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
2015
Number
000’s
2015
WAEP
2014
Number
000’s
2014
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 115 £6.56 202 £5.67
Granted – £9.10 20 £9.10
Lapsed (6) £6.46 (29) £6.46
Exercised (26) £4.92 (78) £4.92
Outstanding at the end of the year 83 £9.14 115 £6.56
Exercisable at the end of the year 39 £5.97 51 £5.12
Weighted average share price for options exercised in the year £9.80 £9.17
Weighted average contractual life remaining for share options outstanding at the year end 6.61 years 6.71 years
Weighted average share price for options granted in the year n/a £8.98
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year n/a £1.07
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end
– from £4.05 £4.05
– to £9.10 £9.10 104  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
28. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
Executive Share Option Scheme
2015
Number
000’s
2015
WAEP
2014
Number
000’s
2014
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 162 £7.39 185 £5.58
Granted 54 £9.10 44 £9.10
Lapsed (12) £9.10 –  – 
Exercised (35) £9.88 (67) £4.98
Outstanding at the end of the year 169 £6.73 162 £7.39
Exercisable at the end of the year 45 £6.23 37 £6.02
Weighted average share price for options exercised in the year £9.52 £9.18
Weighted average contractual life remaining for share options outstanding at the year end 7.45 years 7.50 years
Weighted average share price for options granted in the year £9.65 £8.98
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year £1.15 £0.92
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end
– from £4.05 £4.05
– to £9.10 £9.10
Outstanding options which are capable of being exercised between three and ten years from date of issue and their exercise prices are shown in the table below:
Exercisable in/between
Senior Executive Share Option Scheme Executive Share Option Scheme
 Exercise price
40p shares
£
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
shares
under
option
2015
000’s
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
shares
under
option
2014
000’s
 Exercise price
40p shares
£
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
shares
under
option
2015
000’s
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
shares
under
option
2014
000’s
2009 and 2016 4.98  –  2  4.98 3  3 
2010 and 2017  7.51  –  4  7.51 7  12 
201 1 and 2018 4.05 2  12  4.05 4  4 
2012 and 2019 4.80 9  19  4.80 3  3 
2013 and 2020 5.78 12  12  5.78 12  15 
2013 and 2020 6.30 1  1  –  –  – 
2014 and 2021 7.09 15  21  7.09 15  39 
2015 and 2022 7.05 24  24  7.05 38  42 
2016 and 2023 9.10 20  20  9.10 33  44 
2017 and 2024 –  –  –  9.65 54  – 
Total 83 115 169 162  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  105
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
28. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
C) LTIP
Shares
2015
‘A’ shares
Number
000’s
2015
‘B’ shares
Number
000’s
2014
‘A’ shares
Number
000’s
2014
‘B’ shares
Number
000’s
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 478  1,195  694  1,733 
Granted 147  367  155  388 
Lapsed (80) (199) (204) (509) 
Vested (110) (275) (167) (417) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 435  1,088  478  1,195 
Weighted average share price for shares vested in the year £9.53 £0.95 £9.23 £0.92
For shares outstanding at the year end, the weighted average contractual life remaining is 1.22 years 1.22 years 1.28 years 1.28 years
Weighted average share price for shares granted in the year £9.25 £0.92 £8.98 £0.90
Weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year £8.74 £0.87 £8.38 £0.84
All LTIPs have a vesting price of £nil. LTIP shares do not receive dividends until vested.
D) SIP
2015
Number
000’s
2014
Number
000’s
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 322  369 
Granted 74  71 
Lapsed (2) (1) 
Released (97) (117) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 297  322 
Weighted average share price for shares released in the year £9.36 £9.31
For shares outstanding at the year end, the weighted average contractual life remaining is 2.86 years 2.85 years
Weighted average share price for shares granted during the year £9.50 £9.60
Weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year £9.59 £9.17
Outstanding SIP shares represent shares allocated and held by the SIP Trustees on behalf of employees, which remain in the trust for between three and five   years. All SIPs have a vesting price of £nil. SIP shares receive dividends once allocated. 106  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
28. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
E) Fair Value of Grants
(i) Equity-settled options and LTIPs
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards   were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 and 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014, except exercise  price and for the weighted average share price for grants in the year, which are disclosed in sections a) to e) above.
Fair value inputs
LTIP scheme Save as you earn scheme
Executive and Senior Executive 
option schemes
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Dividend yield (%) 1.7% 1.6% 1.7% 1.6% 1.7% 1.6%
Expected share price volatility (%) n/a n/a 19% 17% 19% 17%
Risk-free interest rate (%) 1.4% 0.7%
1.4 to 
2.0%
0.9 to 
1.6% 1.7%
1.1 to 
1.4%
Expected life of option/award (years) 3 years 3 years
3 to 
5 years
3 to 
5 years 3 years
4 to 
5 years
Model used
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
(ii) SIPs Granted
The fair value of SIPs is the share price at the date of allocation. The value of SIPs awarded is a fixed rate based on the Group’s performance in the preceding   financial year. The number of shares awarded is therefore dependent on the share price at the date of the award.   29. Guarantees and Commitments
a) Operating Lease Commitments
Operating leases where the Group is the lessee
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Within one year 11.2 8.0 10.9 8.0 
Between one year and five years 26.9 26.2 25.7 26.2 
After five years 59.6 39.8 54.0 39.8 
97.7 74.0 90.6 74.0 
Commercial operating leases are typically for 20 to 25 years, although certain leases have lease periods extending up to 40 years.
Operating leases where the Group is the lessor
The Group earns rental income from two sources. Licensed property included within property, plant and equipment is rented under agreements where   lessees must also purchase goods from the Group. Additionally there are a smaller number of agreements in respect of investment properties where there   is no requirement for the lessee to purchase goods.
Investment properties are let to third parties on leases that have remaining terms of between one and ten years.
At 28 March 2015 future minimum rentals receivable by the Group are as follows:
Group
Investment properties
Other property, 
plant & equipment
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 0.3 0.4 7.5 7.7 
Between one year and five years 0.7 0.7 15.1 16.7 
After five years 0.3 0.4 10.9 8.8 
1.3 1.5 33.5 33.2   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  107
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
29. Guarantees and Commitments continued
Company
Investment properties
Other property, 
plant & equipment
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 0.3 0.4 7.6 7.7 
Between one year and five years 0.7 0.7 15.4 16.7 
After five years 0.3 0.4 11.4 8.8 
1.3 1.5 34.4 33.2 
The Group and Company’s commercial leases on property are principally for licensed outlets. The terms of the leases are normally for either three, five or ten   years with the maximum being 30 years. The agreements allow for annual inflationary increases and full rental reviews occur on renewal of the lease, or every   five years for a ten-year lease.
At 28 March 2015 future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable sub-leases included in the figures above were £7.1 million (2014: £5.2 million).
b) Other Commitments
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Capital commitments – authorised, contracted but not provided for 2.3 3.9 
The Company has accepted various duty deferment bonds in connection with HM Revenue & Customs. The total outstanding commitment at 28 March 2015   was £720,000 (2014: £720,000) for the Group and Company.
30. Related Party Transactions
Group and Company
During the current and prior years the Company provided various administrative services to the Fuller, Smith & Turner Pension Plan free of charge. In addition,   the Company settled costs totalling £200,000 (2014: £170,000) relating to the provision of actuarial, consulting and administrative services by third parties to   the Fuller, Smith & Turner Pension Plan.
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
52 weeks
ended
28 March
2015
£m
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Short term employee benefits 4.9 4.9
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.5
Share-based payments 2.4 1.5
7.7 6.9
Company Only
During the year the Company entered into the following related party transactions:
52 weeks ended 28 March 2015
Sales to
related
parties
£m
Purchases
from
related
parties
£m
Interest
due from
related
parties
£m
Interest paid
to related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed to
related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed by
related
parties
£m
Subsidiaries – 44.8 0.3 3.2 (97.5) 9.0
52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Sales to
related
parties
£m
Purchases
from
related
parties
£m
Interest paid
to related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed to
related
parties
£m
Subsidiaries – 42.9 3.2 (94.5) 
Interest is payable on the majority of the amounts due to subsidiaries at 3% above the Bank of England base rate. All amounts outstanding are unsecured and   repayable on demand. 108  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
30. Related Party Transactions continued
Subsidiaries of parent companies established within the European Economic Area are exempt from an audit if a guarantee is provided by the parent for the   subsidiary liabilities and the shareholders are in unanimous agreement. The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2015 for the   period ending 28 March 2015 under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements:
Griffin Catering Services Ltd  01577632
Jacomb Guinness Ltd  02934979
George Gale & Co. Ltd  00026330  45 Woodfield Ltd  04279254
Cornish Orchards Ltd  04871687
The Group will be exempting the following companies from the preparation and delivering of accounts to Companies House under section 394A of the   Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements:
Griffin Inns Ltd  00495934
Ringwoods Ltd  00178536
F.S.T Trustee Ltd  03163480
Fuller, Smith & Turner Estate Ltd  01831674  31. Post Balance Sheet Event
Since 28 March 2015 the Group has exchanged on the purchase of one licensed property. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  109
Directors
Michael Turner, FCA, Chairman*
Simon Emeny, Chief Executive
James Douglas, ACA
Richard Fuller
Ian Bray
Jonathon Swaine
John Dunsmore*
Sir James Fuller*
Lynn Fordham, CA*
Alastair Kerr*
*Non-Executive.
President
Anthony Fuller, CBE
Chairman from 1982-2007, Anthony Fuller retired from the Board in 2010     after a long career with Fuller’s and continues as President.
Secretary and Registered Office
Séverine Garnham
Griffin Brewery
Chiswick Lane South
London W4 2QB
Tel: 020 8996 2105
Registered Number 241882
Auditors
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Grant Thornton House
Melton Street
London NW1 2EP
Stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Tel: 0870 889 4096
Please note you can now advise
Computershare of changes to your address
or set up a dividend mandate online at
www.computershare.com/investor/uk
Directors and Advisors
as at 4 June 2015 110  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
2015 Diary
Friday, 26 June
Record Date
Wednesday, 1 July
Preference dividends paid
Thursday, 23 July
Annual General Meeting
Hock Cellar, Griffin Brewery
Monday, 27 July
Final dividend paid
Friday, 20 November
Half year results announcement
2016 Diary
January
Preference dividends paid
Interim dividend paid
June
Preliminary results announcement
Shareholder Privileges
Individual shareholders with at least 500 ‘A’ or ‘C’ ordinary shares or 5,000 ‘B’ ordinary shares are eligible to receive a shareholder indulgence card entitling   them to a 15% discount on food and drinks in Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels and when visiting the Brewery Store in Chiswick as well as a 10% discount on   the best available rate in Fuller’s hotels. Information is available from the Company Secretariat on 020 8996 2105 or company.secretariat@fullers.co.uk.
Redesignation of ‘C’ Shares
‘C’ ordinary shares can be redesignated as ‘A’ ordinary shares within 30 days of the preliminary and half year announcements by sending in your certificates   and a written instruction to redesignate prior or during the period to the Company’s Registrars:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic     to sell them. If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them to charity, details of the scheme can be found on the ShareGift website     www.sharegift.org, or by contacting the Company Secretariat on 020 8996 2105.
Shareholder Information Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  111
•  Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) – this is earnings per share, adjusted for exceptional items. The Directors believe that this measure provides useful   information for shareholders as to the internal measures of the performance of the Group.   •  Adjusted profits – this is profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items.
•  Beer and cider volumes – this is the volume of beer and cider sold, in number of barrels; a brewing term representing 288 pints.
•  EBITDA – this is the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, loss on disposal of plant and equipment and amortisation, adjusted for exceptional items.
•  Foreign Beer – this is sales made by the Company of beer produced by other brewers, the majority of which is lager.
•  Like for like barrels sold – this is measured on the same basis as “Tenanted like for like profit growth”.
•  LTIP – Long Term Incentive Plan.
•  Managed Pubs and Hotels invested like for like sales growth – this is the sales growth calculated to exclude those pubs which have not been trading   throughout the two years for the corresponding period in both years. The principal exclusions from this measure are: pubs purchased or sold in the last   12 months; sites which are closed; and pubs which are transferred to tenancy.
•  Market capitalisation – only the Company’s 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares are listed. The Company calculates its market capitalisation as the sum total of all   classes of ordinary shares; i.e. listed 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares, unlisted 4p ‘B’ ordinary shares and unlisted 40p ‘C’ ordinary shares plus all potentially awardable   share options and LTIP awards less any shares held in treasury. For the purposes of the calculation of market capitalisation a 4p ‘B’ ordinary share is treated as   having 10% of the market value of a quoted 40p ‘A’ ordinary share and a 40p ‘C’ ordinary share is treated as having an equivalent value to a 40p ‘A’ ordinary share.   •  Net debt – this comprises cash, bank loans, other loans, debenture stock and preference shares.
•  Own beer and cider – this is sales of own brand beer and cider brewed by the Company in Chiswick and Cornwall.
•  SIP – Share Incentive Plan.
•  Tenanted like for like profit growth – this is the profits growth of Tenanted Inns calculated to exclude from both years those pubs which have not been   trading throughout the two years. The principal exclusions from this measure are: pubs purchased or sold; pubs which have closed; and pubs transferred to   or from our Managed business. Bad debt expense is included but head office costs are excluded.
•  Total annual dividend – the total annual dividend for a financial year comprises interim dividends paid during the financial year and the final dividend   proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting after the completion of the financial year.
•  Wet, food and accommodation like for like sales growth – this is measured on the same basis as “Managed Pubs and Hotels invested like for like sales growth”.
Glossary 112  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
Shareholder Notes  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  113
Income Statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Restated*
2013
£m
Restated*
2012
£m
Restated*
2011
£m
Revenue 321.5 288.0 271.5 253.0 241.9 
Operating profit before exceptional items 42.3 39.9 37.0 34.9 34.1 
Net finance costs* (5.9) (5.8) (5.9) (4.9) (4.7)
Adjusted profit* 36.4 34.1 31.1 30.0 29.4 
Exceptional items* (0.3) (0.6) 2.6 (1.9) 1.0 
Profit before tax* 36.1 33.5 33.7 28.1 30.4 
Taxation* (7.8) (4.4) (5.6) (4.9) (6.0)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company* 28.3 29.1 28.1 23.2 24.4 
EBITDA 58.7 54.5 51.2 47.8 46.6 
*    Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19.
Assets employed
Non-current assets 524.2 481.3 455.6 444.1 382.7 
Inventories 10.6 10.6 10.1 10.5 8.8 
Trade and other receivables 17.7 18.3 18.3 18.3 18.8 
Assets classified as held for sale – 1.2 0.6 5.3 0.2 
Cash and short term deposits 5.1 4.1 4.3 3.9 3.7 
557.6 515.5 488.9 482.1 414.2 
Current borrowings (20.0) –  –  –  – 
Other current liabilities (53.5) (51.2) (45.7) (51.6) (43.6)
484.1 464.3 443.2 430.5 370.6 
Non-current borrowings (147.7) (143.9) (139.9) (142.1) (92.2)
Other non-current liabilities (54.7) (43.2) (43.9) (53.1) (42.2)
Net assets 281.7 277.2 259.4 235.3 236.2 
Per 40p ‘A’ ordinary share 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Adjusted earnings 51.51p 46.94p 42.18p 39.47p 37.54p
Basic earnings 51.15p 52.14p 50.43p 41.24p 43.41p
Dividends (interim and proposed final) 16.60p 15.10p 13.70p 12.65p 11.80p
Net assets £5.09 £4.98 £4.65 £4.22 £4.19 
Net debt (£ million) (162.6) (139.8) (135.6) (138.2) (88.5)
Net debt/EBITDA
1
2.7 2.5 2.6 2.7 1.9 
Gross capital expenditure (£ million) 56.3 38.1 31.1 76.3 12.0 
Average number of employees 4,058 3,610 3,477 3,392 3,363 
1
    Net debt/EBITDA is adjusted as appropriate for the pubs acquired in the period.
Five Years’ Progress
Design, consultancy and production by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk Fuller Smith & Turner Plc 
Registered Office:  
Griffin Brewery  
Chiswick Lane South 
London W4 2QB
Registered number  
241882
Telephone: +44 (0)20 8996 2000 
Email: Fullers@fullers.co.uk 
www.fullers.co.uk
Fuller Smith & Turner P .L.C. Annual Report 2015
