 Gemfields plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 2015
A leading supplier of  
responsibly sourced coloured gemstones Contents
Strategic Report
01  Introduction
02  A year of progress
04  Highlights
08  Chairman’s Statement
10  At a glance
12  Market Overview
14  Chief Executive Officer’s Review
18  Business Model
19  Reasons to invest
20  Strategy
22  Key Performance Indicators
26  Operational and Financial Review
40  Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
42  Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Governance
50  Board of Directors
52  Senior Management
54  Directors’ Report
57  Corporate Governance
61  Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
68  Independent Auditors’ Report
69 Consolidated Income Statement
70  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
71  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
72  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
73  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
74  Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
106  Parent Company Statement of Financial Position 
107 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
108  Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows
109 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
116 Company Contacts and Advisers 01 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Introduction
Gemfields is a leading supplier of responsibly 
sourced coloured gemstones. But we prefer to 
think of ourselves as more than just a mining 
company . W e are pioneers at an exciting new 
frontier where mining, marketing, exploration 
and ethics meet.
“ Gemfields continues to outperform in the resources 
sector as global market demand for coloured 
gemstones remains robust and our exceptional team 
continues to deliver above and beyond expectations. ”
 Ian Harebottle / Gemfields CEO 02 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / A year of progress
The Eyes of the Dragon
2015 — A year of progress
Rubies, Mozambique
• Market appreciation for Mozambican rubies continues to rise 
and the values have tripled since Gemfields’ involvement in 2012
• Exploration programme to date has concentrated on just 36 square 
kilometres out of the 336 square kilometres
 
total licence area
• Maiden Resource & Reserve Statement produced by SRK 
Consulting forecasts production of 432 million carats over 21 years 
• The ‘Eyes of the Dragon’ – A rare matching pair of rubies totalling 
45 carats discovered and sold at auction 
• Operations set to progress to full scale production over next two years
— 
See page 31
Gemfields’ Mozambican rough rubies being viewed at auction. 03 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / A year of progress
• 30.1 million carats produced 
at Kagem – an increase of 49% 
from 2014
• Second highest annual carat 
production since the acquisition 
of Kagem in 2008 
• Commitment to extensive 
exploration across the Kagem 
licence with advanced bulk 
sampling programmes underway 
at the Libwente and Fibolele pits
• Sustained investment in 
equipment, infrastructure 
and facilities
— 
See page 27
Emeralds,  
Zambia
• Six auctions held during the  
year generating total revenues  
of US$153 million
• Record breaking average of 
US$688.64 per carat for higher 
quality rough rubies achieved in 
December 2014 (highest ever 
achieved at a Gemfields auction)
• New record average price of 
US$65.89 per carat achieved 
for higher quality emeralds in 
November 2014
— 
See page 26
Auctions
• Entered into an agreement to 
progress opportunities in the  
Sri Lankan sapphire sector 
• T rading company established 
within the local market with 
some parcels already delivered 
to Gemfields head office 
in London
• Geological assessment underway 
across 16 exploration licences 
covering diverse minerals
— 
See page 37
Fabergé
• Integrated global strategy well underway to re-position Fabergé at the 
top of the luxury pyramid 
• Significant progress made in all product categories following expansion 
into timepieces and objets d’art
• Further growth seen through development of distribution network
• New ‘ Art of Colour’ products focusing on the use of emeralds, rubies 
and sapphires
Sapphires, 
Sri Lanka 04 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Highlights
FY11 40.2
19.9
0.8
FY10
 FY09
FY14
 FY15
160.1
171.4
48.4
83.7
FY13
FY12
2015 — Highlights
Operational Financial
US$171.4 million
(a) EBITDA – earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
(b) From 1 July 2014, the calculation of total operating costs was amended to include depreciation. 
The comparative unit operating costs have been restated.
Total revenue for the Group  
(US$ million)
Total revenue for the Group
Emeralds
• Production summary for 75% owned Kagem Mining Limited 
(“Kagem”), Zambia, for the year:
 – Annual production of 30.1 million carats of emerald and beryl 
(2014: 20.2 million carats);
 – Average grade of 242 carats per tonne, inclusive of ore from bulk 
sampling pits (2014: 253 carats per tonne); and
 – Decrease in unit operating costs from US$1.58
(b)
 per carat to US$1.48 
per carat.
• In May 2015, Gemfields’ commendable safety track record was once again 
recognised by the Mines Safety Department of Zambia who awarded 
Kagem with a safety certificate recognising 3.5 million reportable injury 
free shifts. Lost Time Injury Frequency (“LTIF”) of zero.
• In September 2015, a Competent Persons Report (“CPR”) was issued by 
SRK Consulting (UK) Limited (“SRK”) and included an updated Joint 
Ore Reserves Committee (“JORC”) (2012) Resource and Reserve 
estimate and accompanying statements projecting a 25 year Life of Mine 
(“LoM”) open pit operation producing (on a 100% attributable basis):
 – Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource of 1.8 billion 
carats of emerald and beryl at an in-situ grade of 281 carats per tonne; 
 – Proven and Probable Ore Reserves of 1.1 billion carats of emerald 
and beryl at a diluted ore grade of 291 carats per tonne; and,
 – A Net Present Value (“NPV”) of US$520 million (based on a 
10% discount rate).
Revenue
US$171.4 million
(2014: US$160.1 million)
Net profit after tax
US$12.3 million
(2014: US$16.3 million)
Estimated cost of inventory on hand, excluding fuel and 
other consumables
US$101.1 million
(2014: US$86.3 million)
EBITDA
(a)
US$64.4 million
(2014: US$59.3 million)
Cash at bank – as at 30 June 2015
US$28.0 million
(2014: US$36.8 million) 05
Strategic Report / Title Title Title
Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Highlights
April 15
Jun 15
15.9
29.3
43.3
33.5
Dec 14
Jun 14
Mar 12
Jul 10
38.25
9.35
42.71
5.10
26.20
4.40
Jul 11
Nov 09 
Dec 10
Jul 09
Feb 14
Nov 14
59.31
65.89
54.00
29.71
Jul 13
Nov 12
Fabergé
• The Fabergé Pearl Egg, the first egg created in the ‘Imperial Class’ 
since 1917, was unveiled at the Doha Jewellery and Watches Expo in 
Qatar in late February 2015 and was sold within hours of unveiling.
• Fabergé took part in the prestigious art, antique and design fair 
‘Masterpiece London’ for the first time this year. The event took place 
from 25 June until 1 July 2015 at the Royal Hospital Chelsea. The 
three principal product categories: jewellery, timepieces and objets 
d’art, were showcased alongside loose gemstones from the mines 
of Gemfields.
• Fabergé launched four new timepiece collections at BaselWorld 2015 
to great acclaim. The Fabergé Lady Peacock high complication watch 
and the ‘Summer in Provence’ high jewellery ladies watch qualified as 
entrants for the prestigious Grand Prix d’Horlogerie de Genève, one of 
the most revered watch competitions in the world. Results will be 
announced in Geneva at the end of October 2015.
Rubies
• Production summary for 75% owned Montepuez Ruby Mining 
Limitada (“Montepuez”), Mozambique, for the year:
 – Annual production of 8.4 million carats of ruby and corundum 
(2014: 6.5 million carats), increase in processed volumes primarily 
due to continued upgrades to the wash plant design; 
 – Grade of 26 carats per tonne (2014: 41 carats per tonne); and
 – Increase in unit operating costs from US$1.12 per carat to 
US$2.57 per carat, with the reduced grade and increased unit costs 
being directly attributed to a greater proportion of lower grade but 
significantly higher quality alluvial deposit ore being processed 
during the year.
• Maiden JORC Resource and Reserve Statement for Montepuez 
announced in July 2015 (on a 100% attributable basis):
 – A total Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource of 467 million carats;
 – Probable Ore Reserves of 432 million carats of ruby and 
corundum, giving a projected 21 year LoM; and,
 – An NPV of US$996 million (based on a 10% discount rate).
US$65.89 per carat US$43.3 million
Average per carat sales value achieved from higher quality emerald auctions  
(US$ per carat)
Total revenue from ruby auctions  
(US$ million)
Highest average price per carat achieved in November 2014 at the 
high quality emerald auction in Zambia
Highest ever auction revenue achieved at any Gemfields auction. 
High & low quality ruby and corundum auction in December 2014 06 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 07 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
Our mission is to be the world’s foremost gemstone 
company, actively leading the growth and  
development of the industry and promoting trust  
and transparency from mine to market.
Gemfields’ brand 
ambassador Mila Kunis 
wearing Gyan earrings set 
with Mozambican rubies 08 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
Significant increase in achievable per carat prices
US$65.89 
Increase in price per carat of higher quality 
emeralds from US$4.40 in July 2009 to 
US$65.89 in November 2014.
A landmark year of record-breaking auction 
results, increased production, organic growth 
and further expansion for the Gemfields 
group worldwide.  09 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am delighted to present the 2015 Annual Report which outlines 
another landmark year for Gemfields.
Your Company generated increased revenues of US$171 million and a 
strong EBITDA of US$64 million, underpinned by record-breaking 
auction results, a significant uplift in gemstone production, and 
further expansion projects coming online. 
The global coloured gemstone market continues to demonstrate 
impressive growth, with global imports of finished emerald, ruby 
and sapphire goods accounting for as much as 58% of the worldwide 
coloured gemstone and pearl market at US$5 billion. We have been 
relentless in our ambition to become the global leader in coloured 
gemstones and as a result, Gemfields is increasingly being recognised 
as the supplier of choice for many of the world’s leading jewellery 
houses, manufacturers and luxury brands. 
Demand for our responsibly sourced coloured gemstones remains 
high. The six auctions we have hosted in this financial year, three 
of emeralds and three of rubies, have yielded aggregate revenues of 
US$153 million. This superb performance by Gemfields provides 
further evidence of the continued growth, positive momentum and 
significant opportunity inherent within the coloured gemstone sector.
Without question, the past year has seen our ruby mining business 
in Mozambique flourish in both financial and operational 
performance. Although it is still very early days at Montepuez, 
the response from the market for fine Mozambican rubies has been 
extremely positive. Since the inaugural ruby auction in June 2014, 
Gemfields has held a further three ruby auctions during the period, 
with the four auctions held to date generating a combined US$122 
million in revenues. In December 2014, our higher quality rubies 
achieved an average price of US$688.64 per carat – the highest price 
ever recorded at any Gemfields auction. While the ruby prices achieved 
are pleasing, our Mozambican rubies remain very competitively priced 
when compared to their Burmese counterparts, which bodes well for 
future demand and the potential for continued price growth.
The full potential of the Montepuez ruby deposit was formally 
recognised in the first JORC compliant Mineral Resource and Ore 
Reserve Statement published in July 2015, which shows Probable  
Ore Reserves of 432 million carats of ruby and corundum; sufficient 
for 21 years of mining at an increased rate of 20 million carats per 
annum. The significance of this report is a milestone event for the 
business and an exciting moment for global ruby supply as a whole.
Montepuez is already having a positive impact on the global ruby 
market and with the potential for operations to progress into full  
scale production over the next 24 months, the outlook is extremely 
encouraging. I would like to thank our team, our 25% partner 
Mwiriti and the Mozambican government for their continued 
support and expertise in bringing this project to fruition. While there 
is still a great deal of work to be done there is considerable upside yet 
to be realised on behalf of our shareholders.
Our Kagem emerald mine achieved a remarkable 49% increase 
year-on-year in emerald and beryl production to 30.1 million carats. 
This is the second highest annual production achieved since we first 
took over operational control at Kagem in 2008 and is an outstanding 
result for the Gemfields team. Zambian emeralds continue to enjoy 
firm demand and have become highly sought after in the international 
markets, underpinned by further increases in per carat prices for both 
lower and higher quality emeralds from Kagem during the year. The 
Company’s 19 auctions of emeralds and beryl mined at Kagem since 
July 2009 have generated US$360 million in total revenues.
The SRK Competent Persons Report announced in September 2015 
includes the first recorded Measured Mineral Resource and Proven 
Ore Reserve Statement for the Kagem Mine (and possibly the first 
classification of this nature for the entire coloured gemstone sector) 
and further underlines the importance of the Kagem mine to the 
global supply of emeralds. The report confirmed a 25 year life of mine 
with a Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource of 1.8 
billion carats of emerald and beryl at an in-situ grade of 281 carats 
per tonne for the Kagem mine as a whole. Since embarking on an 
integrated, global strategic plan for our jewellery business, I am 
pleased to report that Fabergé has continued to make encouraging 
progress towards sustainable growth and future profitability. We 
remain focused on optimising the business, re-establishing the brand 
at the highest level of the luxury goods market, and harnessing the 
Fabergé name to boost the international presence and appreciation for 
coloured gemstones.
Significant achievements over the past 12 months include the launch 
of new product lines and the expansion into two important luxury 
categories, namely timepieces and objets d’art, to industry acclaim. 
However, continued investment in the business coupled with a 
turbulent political environment in the key markets of Russia and 
Ukraine has naturally had some level of impact on Fabergé’s overall 
sales during the year.
Our ambition to supply the global market with the red, blue and green 
‘traffic light’ of coloured gemstones took a step closer in September 
2014 when we were able to announce our move into Sri Lankan 
sapphires. Sri Lanka is recognised as one of the most important 
sources of higher quality sapphires in the world today and we look 
forward to introducing Sri Lankan sapphires to the Gemfields 
auction platform in the not too distant future. 
Post the financial year end we announced our move into Colombia 
via the proposed acquisition of the Coscuez Emerald Mine as well 
as selected greenfield exploration prospects. Colombia needs little 
introduction, it is home to some of history’s most legendary emerald 
mines and the potential entry into this country is in line with our 
strategy of expanding Gemfields’ global footprint. The acquisitions 
offer exciting long term growth opportunities and both parties are 
working hard to conclude the agreements.
With further emerald and ruby auctions scheduled to take place in the 
latter part of 2015, continued organic growth at both Kagem and 
Montepuez, and a clear focus on strategic acquisitions and expansion, 
we look forward to yet another strong and successful year ahead.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all of our 
hardworking and dedicated employees, management team, project 
partners and host countries, on a very successful year for Gemfields.
Graham Mascall / Chairman
6 October 2015  10 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / At a glance
Colombia
Brazil
Zambia
Mozambique
Sri Lanka
India
ailand
Myammar
Madagascar
1
2
3
Kashmir
At a glance
Global gemstone deposits and Gemfields’ locations
Our vision is to become the global 
‘Coloured Gemstone Champion’ . 
Benefiting from Gemfields’ ability to be 
a price maker rather than a price taker 
and a six year track record of direction, 
delivery and success.
1
2
3
Key
 75% owned Kagem Emerald Mine
 50% owned Kariba Amethyst Mine
 75% owned Montepuez Ruby Mine
 Prospective licences
  Gemfields’ global offices
Major producing areas
  Emerald
  Sapphire
  Ruby
Fabergé retail outlets and wholesale partners not shown 11 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / At a glance
Key Assets 
Kagem Mining Limited – Emeralds (75% interest)
• A partnership with the Government of the Republic of Zambia 
(25% interest);
• Believed to be the world’s largest producer of emeralds, accounting 
for approximately 25% of global rough emerald production;
• Licence covers an area of approximately 41 square kilometres and 
contains several emerald-bearing belts (one of which is currently 
being mined on a large-scale, two are in a bulk-sampling phase 
and the others are yet to be fully examined by Gemfields);
• JORC code compliant Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource 
of 1.8 billion carats of emerald and beryl at an in-situ grade of 
281 carats per tonne.
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada – Rubies (75% interest)
• A partnership with a local Mozambican entity, Mwiriti Limitada 
(25% interest);
• Licence, located in the Montepuez district of the Cabo Delgado 
province in Mozambique, covers approximately 336 square 
kilometres with both primary and secondary deposits;
New Projects and 
Other Assets
Oriental Mining – Rubies, Emeralds and Sapphires 
(100% interest)
• Nine exploration licences covering emeralds, rubies, sapphires, 
tourmalines and garnets in the Antananarivo, Fianarantsoa 
and Toliara provinces of Madagascar;
• 11 additional licences are in the process of being transferred 
to Oriental Mining. Initial stages of geological evaluation 
completed.
Megaruma Mining Limitada – Rubies (75% interest)
• In December 2014, Gemfields completed its acquisition 
of controlling interests in two additional ruby deposits in 
the Montepuez district of the Cabo Delgado province in 
Mozambique (the “Megaruma Licences”);
• The two licences, which do not border on one another, each 
share a boundary with the existing Montepuez ruby deposit  
and cover approximately 19 thousand hectares and 15 thousand 
hectares respectively;
• The Megaruma licences are expected to provide a platform, 
alongside the Montepuez ruby deposit, for the expansion and 
development of Gemfields’ Mozambique ruby operations.
Ratnapura Lanka Gemstones (Pvt) Ltd – 
Sapphires (75% interest)
• In conjunction with East West Gem Investments Limited 
(“EWGI”), Gemfields established a new gemstone trading 
company in Sri Lanka; 
• The new company will source rough sapphires from pre-vetted 
parties already operating within the local market.
• Generally recognised as one of the world’s largest known ruby 
and corundum deposits;
• JORC code compliant Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource 
of 467 million carats of ruby and corundum at an in-situ grade 
of 62 carats per tonne.
Fabergé Limited (100% interest)
• Fabergé enables Gemfields to take its vision for coloured 
gemstones to the next level, harnessing the Fabergé name to 
boost the international presence and perception of coloured 
gemstones and advance the Company’s ‘mine and market’ vision;
• New products launched to promote the use of emeralds, 
rubies and sapphires in support of Gemfields’ coloured 
gemstone strategy.
Kariba Minerals Limited – Amethyst (50% interest)
• One of the world’s largest producing amethyst mines;
• Partnership with the ZCCM Investments Holdings plc 
(“ZCCM-IH”), which owns a 50% interest.
Web Gemstone Mining plc – Emeralds (75% interest)
• In February 2015, Gemfields completed its acquisition of 75% 
interest in an emerald exploration licence, through the Ethiopian 
registered Web Gemstone Mining plc, covering a licence area of 
approximately 200 square kilometres;
• Exploration work has commenced for the coming financial year 
with a preliminary ground survey, mapping and preparation of 
base plans. 
Coscuez Emerald Mine, Boyacá Department, Colombia – 
Emeralds (70% interest)
• In September 2015, Gemfields entered into a binding but 
conditional agreement to acquire a 70% interest in a Colombian 
company which will, on completion, hold mining contract no. 
122-95M (the “Coscuez Licence”, which is presently held by 
Esmeracol S.A.);
• Located on the ‘Muzo formation’, the Coscuez Licence covers an 
area of 47 hectares, with the Coscuez mine – one of the largest 
emerald mines in the world – having been in operation for over 
25 years and known to have produced some of the finest 
emeralds from Colombia;
• Geological due diligence studies were carried out by Gemfields 
between October 2013 and August 2014; 
• Completion is expected to occur by March 2016.
Selected Exploration Prospects, Colombia – 
Emeralds (75% and 70% interests).
• Also in September 2015, Gemfields completed the first part 
of its acquisition of 75% and 70% interests in two Colombian 
companies holding rights in respect of mining licence 
applications and assigned concession contracts respectively 
(of which eight have been approved and issued);
• The total package of mining licence applications and assigned 
concession contracts cover approximately 20,000 hectares. 12 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Market Overview
 
50,000
45,000
40,000
35,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
Ruby, Emerald, Blue Sapphire and Diamond prices: 2ct. 
(2015, US$/carat) 
(1), (2)
 
 Diamond (D Colour)             Diamond (F Colour)              Ruby             Blue Sapphire             Emerald
Very low
13
Quality
Commercial 
Lower/12
Commercial 
Middle/11
Commercial 
Upper/S12
Good 
Lower/S11
Good
Upper/VS2 
Fine Lower 
/VS1
Fine Upper 
/VVS2
Extra Fine
Lower/VVS1  
Extra Fine 
Upper/IF
Source: GemWorld International Inc. 4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Ruby, Emerald, Blue Sapphire and Diamond prices: 0.3ct. 
(2015, US$/carat) 
(1), (2)
 
Very low
13
Quality
Commercial 
Lower/12
Commercial 
Middle/11
Commercial 
Upper/S12
Good 
Lower/S11
Good
Upper/VS2 
Fine Lower 
/VS1
Fine Upper 
/VVS2
Extra Fine
Lower/VVS1  
Extra Fine 
Upper/IF
 Diamond (D Colour)             Diamond (F Colour)              Ruby             Blue Sapphire             Emerald
Source: GemWorld International Inc.
 
2015 — Market Overview
Global imports of coloured gemstones 
2014
The impressive growth of the coloured 
gemstone market worldwide over the past few 
years has continued during the financial year 
under review. In calendar year 2014, global 
imports of finished coloured gemstones and 
pearls reached US$8.6 billion compared with 
the 2013 reported figure of US$6.8 billion. 
This is equal to 11% of the value of global 
imports of worked diamonds for jewellery 
use (2011: 5% of global diamond imports). 
Remarkably, emeralds, rubies and sapphires 
alone account for as much as 58% of the 
finished coloured gemstone and pearl market 
or roughly US$5 billion
(a)
, an increase of 
32% from the US$3.8
(b)
 billion reported in 
2013. The world’s top jewellery markets 
experienced double digit growth in the 
imports of the top three coloured gemstones. 
The USA grew by 29%, Europe by 22%, and 
the high jewellery manufacturing centres of 
France, Italy, Switzerland and the UK 
reported growth of 22%, 21%, 42% and  
44% respectively. Hong Kong imports rose 
by 23% while India remains one of the most 
significant markets with imports rising 
by 6%. 
Increasing awareness of the true value and 
rarity of emeralds, rubies and sapphires, 
together with the rediscovery of the natural 
and inherent beauty of colour by younger 
generations, has contributed significantly 
to the continued increase in demand for 
coloured gemstones from around the world. 
Transparency, responsible mining ethics, 
consistent supply and consumer education 
efforts, as a result of the increasing 
formalisation of the sector, continue to 
strengthen consumer confidence and 
make coloured gemstones an increasingly 
popular choice.
The coloured gemstone industry 
continued to demonstrate 
impressive progress. 
Global imports of coloured gemstones and pearls
US$8.6bn
in 2014 (2013: US$6.8 billion)
(1)
 Prices quoted are those from the top of the range in each instance
(2)
 Ruby prices include Burmese rubies. 13 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Market Overview
Emeralds, Rubies and Sapphire 
Production
Emeralds
Available statistics seem to indicate that 
Zambia became the world’s leading 
producer of rough emeralds and beryl in 
2014, accounting for as much as 35% of 
global supply and surpassing Colombian 
and Brazilian production by value. Efficient 
mining and distribution practices combined 
with Gemfields’ coordinated marketing 
efforts have been crucial to the development 
of the Zambian emerald sector where 
Gemfields’ Kagem mining operation 
accounts for as much as 70% of Zambia’s 
recorded emerald production. Zambia, 
Colombia and Brazil have historically each 
produced around one third of global emerald 
supply by value. However, Colombia’s 
share of global production appears to have 
decreased considerably in the past few years, 
(which is primarily thought to be as a 
result of a growing need for increased 
capital investment and professional mining 
techniques within the region), while 
Zambia’s share has been increasing. Brazil’s 
position remains largely unchanged and the 
country continues to export rough as well as 
cut and polished emeralds.
Rubies and Sapphires
Found mainly in Southern Asia and 
Eastern Africa, rubies and sapphires belong 
to the corundum mineral species and are 
the second hardest natural minerals after 
diamonds. Traditionally, high quality 
rubies and sapphires have been produced 
in Myanmar and Kashmir. However, the 
time scale over which these deposits have 
been mined, the lack of investment and 
various other factors have resulted in all 
but the exhaustion of many of the existing 
mines and a decline in their overall market 
share. Mozambique is believed to be the 
most significant ruby deposit find since 
Myanmar. The discovery of new deposits 
in Mozambique are reviving the global ruby 
trade by establishing a reliable and consistent 
supply of rubies to the world’s markets.  
As a result, the ruby industry has grown 
considerably in the past year.
2015 Ruby, Emerald, Sapphire and 
Diamond Prices and the potential for 
continued growth
The price range between the lowest and 
highest quality grades in coloured gemstones 
is very broad (across all sizes) – while 
the ranges are much narrower with respect 
to diamonds. Thus, it is our view that the 
current market prices for these gemstones 
show considerable room for continued 
growth. Given the fact that these qualities 
make up the bulk of any mine’s overall 
production, rising prices in lower and 
medium qualities could offer an additional 
and important positive impact on the 
coloured gemstone industry as a whole 
over time.
The highest quality rubies are commanding 
higher prices than diamonds of similar 
weights. Coloured gemstones are setting new 
world records at auctions, a 25.59 carat ruby 
was sold by Sotheby’s for US$30.3 million 
in May, the highest price ever achieved by 
a ruby and a 35.09 carat sapphire sold by 
Christie’s in May 2015 set a new world 
record for more than US$200,000 per carat. 
Data Source: United Nations Commodity Trade 
(a)
 Refers to the trade in both rough and cut and polished 
emeralds, rubies, sapphires and pearls. 
(b)
 Gemfields Annual Report 2014 stated that 2013 global imports 
of emeralds, rubies and sapphires stood at US$3.2 billion. The 
figure has changed since reporters added more 2013 imports 
data to the United Nations Commodity Trade data. 14 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
This has been a tremendous year for our 
Montepuez ruby mining business which is 
helping to re-energise the global ruby market.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Sales generated from the Montepuez ruby deposit 
US$122m
US$122 million sales generated from the 
Montepuez ruby deposit since the acquisition 
completed in 2012 15 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
I am pleased to report on another year of delivery, growth and 
achievement for Gemfields as we continue to outperform against 
our peers within the resources sector.
We have repeatedly delivered on our strategy of increasing 
production, expanding our operating footprint, responsible mining 
ethics and strengthening of sector and consumer confidence 
in coloured gemstones through our commitment to marketing 
and education.
This has been a tremendous year for our ruby mining business in 
Mozambique. The quality of gems produced at the Montepuez ruby 
deposit, coupled with Gemfields’ highly-regarded auction platform 
and comprehensive marketing programmes, has undoubtedly 
re-energised the global ruby market.
Montepuez delivered increased production of 8.4 million carats of 
ruby and corundum for the year. Following a technical review, the 
rock handling capacity was optimised with new additions to the fleet 
bringing total rock handling to an average of 250 thousand tonnes 
per month compared with 130 thousand tonnes per month in the 
previous year. Processing performance also improved following the 
installation of an additional rinsing screen to improve the capacity 
of the wash plant during the rainy season.
Our primary objective now is for operations at Montepuez to 
progress from exploration into full scale production over the next 
two years. Key targets outlined in the maiden Mineral Resource and 
Ore Reserve Statement by SRK would see mining capacity rise from 
3.3 million tonnes per annum (“mtpa”) to 5.6 mtpa by July 2017 
and processing capacity increase to 1.3 mtpa by financial year 2017 . We 
look forward to this major step-up in scale for our Mozambican asset.
The three Montepuez rough ruby auctions held during the year 
– which included the exceptional 40.23 carat ‘Rhino Ruby’ and a rare 
matching pair of rough rubies with a combined weight of 45 carats, 
and aptly named the ‘Eyes of the Dragon’, – delivered very pleasing 
results. The April 2015 auction held in Jaipur, was the first time that 
such a considerable volume of non-domestic rough ruby was offered 
to the market, with an overwhelming response from participants. 
Through our continued programme of education on the rarity and 
value of rubies from Montepuez, the opportunity to grow this market 
is still apparent.
Kagem delivered another year of impressive results with an increase 
in annual carat production that can be attributed in part to improved 
volumes of ore (derived from the mine’s primary Chama deposit and 
supplemented to some extent by the bulk sampling work being carried 
out on two additional pits) and better rain management during 
the annual wet season. We progressed the fourth high wall pushback 
at the Chama pit, which was completed in September 2015. We have 
revisited our mine plan for the Chama pit, following the updated 
Resource and Reserves Statement from SRK and are now looking 
at the option of continued waste stripping over the life of the mine. 
The plan being to ensure that two to three years of ore is available 
for mining at any given point in time. 
In addition to the current production focus being centred on the 
Chama pit, effort has also been directed at additional exploration 
work across the Kagem mining licence area during the year, with 
the acceleration of various bulk sampling programmes, including 
the Libwente and Fibolele pits which have thus far yielded some 
promising results. 
The SRK report, released in September 201 5, confirmed a proven and 
probable reserve of 1.1 billion carats at a diluted ore grade of 291 carats 
per tonne. With the right investment, we expect to be able to increase 
current production levels from 25 to 30 million carats per annum to 
around 35 million carats of emerald and beryl by the 2017 financial 
year end.
Investment into new mining and ancillary equipment during the 
year, as well as improvements to Kagem’s infrastructure and facilities, 
have once again contributed to increased operational efficiency. 
The wash plant and security arrangements are also being upgraded 
with the potential to further increase our processing capacity 
once completed.
The management and exploration teams should be commended for 
their skilled and prudent approach to the programme of organic 
growth at Kagem and we enter the next financial year in a position 
where further increases in production output from outside of the 
Chama pit are increasingly possible.  16 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
We will continue to be guided by our approach to sustainability 
and to add meaningful value to the communities, regions and 
countries where we do business. We were particularly pleased to 
note the progress on two of Kagem’s major community projects, 
this year, being the construction of a secondary school for 700 
children at Chapula and upgrading of the Nkana Health Centre 
in Lufwanyama District.
Despite some of the extraneous challenges faced, Fabergé continues 
to serve as a true coloured gemstone champion, adding value to the 
Gemfields business by suitably positioning and promoting coloured 
gemstones to drive industry and consumer demand. The launch 
and subsequent sale of the highly anticipated Fabergé Pearl Egg, 
the brand’s exploration into the timepieces sector, and new jewellery 
collections reflecting the artistic use of coloured gemstones, have been 
well received by the market, demonstrating the significant potential 
inherent with the innovative new designs being created by the Fabergé 
team. We look forward to increasing consumer demand for these 
products as we enter the final quarter of this calendar year.
In September 2015, Gemfields announced binding but conditional 
agreements to acquire controlling interest in two emerald projects in 
Colombia, including the Coscuez Emerald Mine which is known to 
have produced some of the finest emeralds from Colombia. 
I am pleased to report that our efforts and their associated successes 
over the past few years, mean that we are now in a position to further 
support the Group’s overall objectives via the efforts of our three 
newly opened rough gemstone trading outlets. I am confident that 
the positive impacts of these ventures will be felt in each of these 
markets within the not too distant future as they help to improve 
the financial viability of many of the smaller scale miners and 
ensure maximum returns for each of the respective host nations.
I am extremely encouraged by this past year’s growth and the 
continued development of the global coloured gemstone sector. 
As we move into a period of stability and consolidation in the year 
ahead, I look forward to reporting on the sustained growth and 
prosperity of your Company. 
Ian Harebottle / Chief Executive Officer
6 October 2015
Fabergé
Summer in Provence 
Emerald Timepiece
Fabergé
Summer in Provence Emerald Timepiece
A new vision of jewellery timepieces. 
Sophisticated skills of the Fabergé work 
masters are evident in the delicacy with 
which the precious gems are interlaced 
with fine coloured gemstones and 
micro-sculptures.
— See page 37 17 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Total EBITDA 
US$194.7 m
Total EBITDA of US$194.7 million 
generated since FY09 until FY15
Total revenue
US$524.5m
US$524.5 million generated since first 
auction in FY09 until FY15 
Case study
40 Carat Ruby
Exceptional 40.23 carat ‘Rhino Ruby’ 
discovered at Montepuez 
The discovery of a 40.23 carat rough ruby from the 
Montepuez deposit in 2014 was believed to be one of 
the most important rubies unearthed in recent times. 
The gemstone has set a new benchmark for the quality 
of African rubies and further endorses Montepuez 
as one of the most significant ruby deposits in the 
world today.
In recognition of the successful sale of this exceptional 
ruby at auction, Gemfields and Mwiriti Limitada 
committed to supporting the anti-rhino-poaching 
aircraft operated by Game Reserves United (“GRU”), 
contributing to a material proportion of its flying cost 
for the 201 5 calendar year.
Gemfields is contributing the major 
portion of funds towards the upkeep of 
the GRU-Wing aircraft in 2015. 18 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Business Model
Luxury, retail and 
wholesale market
Fabergé customers
Our business model is to create shareholder 
value by identifying and investing in 
undeveloped or underdeveloped coloured 
gemstone assets. We use our unrivalled 
operational expertise in the coloured 
gemstone sector to grow these assets, 
typically in partnership with appropriate 
local partners. We do not pursue 
comprehensive vertical integration. Rather, 
our ‘mine and market’ strategy means 
we focus on both ends of the value chain, 
representing what we believe to be the 
two most important segments.
Our pioneering auction platform has 
changed the face of the coloured gemstone 
sector, delivering a key tenet of our business 
model: bringing a consistent supply of 
responsibly sourced coloured gemstones, 
carefully graded according to our proprietary 
rough grading systems, to our customers. 
This distribution platform is complemented 
by determined marketing and promotional 
campaigns to further increase confidence in, 
and awareness of, our exciting and fast-
growing sector.
We prefer to think of ourselves as more than just a mining company: 
we are innovators at an exciting new frontier where exploration, 
mining, marketing and ethics meet.
Sorting and Grading
• Pioneered the world’s most comprehensive grading and  
sorting system for rough emeralds and rubies
Develop, mine, deliver
• A leading supplier of responsibly sourced coloured gemstones, 
and one of the world’s largest emerald, ruby and amethyst 
producers
• Experienced and well-regarded management team with a  
proven track record of delivery
• Unrivalled expertise in coloured gemstone mining and exploration
• Scalable mines with recognised reserves
Pioneering auction platform
• Well established and reliable auction 
platform in the coloured gemstone sector
• Helps to formalise the market
• Delivering a reliable supply of well 
graded rough gemstones
• Targeted to each customer’s needs
Rough  
customers
Business Model — Mine and Market
Market
•  Global leader in repositioning the coloured gemstone industry 
alongside other luxury goods
•  Owner of Fabergé, one of the world’s most recognisable luxury 
brands, enables Gemfields to accelerate its vision to raise the 
international presence and perception of coloured gemstones 19 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Reasons to invest
Gemfields is a leading supplier of responsibly sourced coloured 
gemstones supported by an experienced and well-regarded 
management team with a proven track record of delivery. 
Gemfields is:
• Elevating the position of coloured 
gemstones alongside other luxury 
goods
• Investing in exploration resource 
development and intellectual capital 
to maximise value from operations 
of scale
• Delivering a steady supply of high 
quality, graded rough gemstones 
through internationally held 
auctions with an ability to be a 
price maker not a price taker
• Raising sector and product demand 
through targeted marketing and 
promotional campaigns
• The owner of Fabergé, one of the 
world’s most well-recognised  
luxury names 
— 
See pages 20 and 21
Gemfields ’ assets include:
• The Kagem emerald mine in  
Zambia, presently Gemfields’  
only operating emerald mine and  
believed to be the largest producing 
emerald mine in the world
• The Montepuez ruby deposit in 
Mozambique, believed to potentially  
be the largest known ruby concession  
in the world
• The Kariba amethyst mine in  
Zambia, one of the world’s largest 
producing amethyst mines
• Fabergé, one of the world’s most 
recognised luxury brand names, 
underscored by a well-documented  
and globally recognised heritage 
• New projects and prospecting 
licences in Colombia, Mozambique, 
Ethiopia, Sri Lanka and Madagascar
— 
See pages 10 and 11
Gemfields ’ management:
• Is highly experienced in  
coloured gemstone exploration, 
mining, processing, sorting 
and grading
• Has a proven track record in  
coloured gemstone marketing  
and promotion to drive global  
demand
• Is focused on mine and market 
strategy, constantly building on 
our core competencies
• Has delivered a 15-fold increase  
in rough sales prices of higher quality 
emeralds over the past six years
• Is partnering with a number of 
globally recognised brands in support  
of increasing consumer confidence
— 
See page 50 to 53
1 2 3
Reasons to invest 20 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Strategy
Strategy
Priority
Promoting and 
repositioning the 
coloured gemstone 
industry alongside 
other luxury goods
Ensuring a consistent 
supply of professionally-
graded coloured gemstones 
to world markets
Promoting disclosure, transparency, 
education and certification across 
the coloured gemstone industry in support 
of increased consumer confidence
Leading the way in coloured gemstone 
exploration, operational efficiencies and 
mining ethics
Description
• To drive demand through Gemfields’ 
commitment to communication, 
consumer education, marketing 
and advertising, including global 
consumer campaigns together with 
global brand ambassador, Mila Kunis, 
highlighting the heritage value inherent 
in coloured gemstones. 
• Leverage the Group’s ownership 
of Fabergé, not only to promote 
Gemfields’ position as a leading 
supplier of responsibly sourced 
gemstones, but also provide a greater 
influence over positioning and increased 
consumer awareness.
• To change the face of the coloured 
gemstone sector through Gemfields’ 
pioneering emerald and ruby auction 
platform, bringing a consistent supply of 
responsibly sourced coloured gemstones, 
carefully graded according to the 
Company’s proprietary rough gemstone 
grading systems, to its customers.
• This consistent supply model engineered 
by Gemfields is now in its sixth year, and 
has received much acclaim from many 
stakeholders across the sector.
• To promote the development of globally accepted principles and 
standards in the coloured gemstone sector including raising 
professional standards within the sector and promoting long-term, 
sustainable and integrity-driven operations. 
• To invest in furthering our geological, technical and mining 
expertise in coloured gemstone exploration, evaluation 
and mining.
• To pursue operational excellence through investing in our 
currently operating assets, development projects and people.
• Investigating target sites for possible future inclusion into the 
Gemfields’ portfolio of mines.
Progress FY2015
• Gemfields continues to uphold its 
commitment to supporting the 
promotion of the coloured gemstone 
industry through marketing and 
advertising. During the financial year,  
a total of US$16.2 million was incurred 
on selling, marketing and advertising.
• The coloured gemstone market has 
seen an impressive growth in the past 
few years. 
• In calendar year 2014, global imports of 
coloured gemstones and pearls increased 
to US$8.6 billion (2013: US$6.8 billion). 
There has been an increased use of 
coloured gemstones in new jewellery 
ranges by most major global 
luxury jewellers.
• Emeralds, rubies and sapphires 
alone account for as much as 58% of 
the coloured gemstone and pearl market 
or around US$5 billion.
• During the financial year, Gemfields held 
three emerald and three ruby auctions  
at various locations across the globe.
• A total of approximately 4 million carats 
of rubies and 16 million carats of emeralds 
were sold at auction generating a total 
revenue of US$153 million.
• One amethyst auction was held in the 
financial year and a total of 28 million 
carats of rough amethyst were sold 
generating revenues of US$0.45 million.
• Gemfields is committed to ethical business practices. 
• In addition to the well-known ‘Four Cs’ used by diamond buyers, 
two additional ‘Cs’ (Certification and Character) have been 
incorporated by Gemfields.
• Gemfields is working with its industry partners to make available 
laboratory certificates and chain-of-custody certificates containing 
the Gemfields name.
• Gemfields has supported the creation of an educational film about 
coloured gemstones that covers: History, Geology, Mining, CSR 
and Community, Marketing and To Own a Gemstone.
• Gemfields continues to fully disclose its auction results to the 
market and supports increased disclosure across the sector.
• Bulk sampling continued to progress at Libwente and Fibolele 
within the Kagem licence area.
• Completed the acquisition of a 75% stake in Megaruma Mining 
Limitada, encompassing an additional 300 square kilometres, 
of mining licence area bordering on Montepuez. 
• Completed the acquisition of 75% interest in an emerald 
exploration licence through Web Gemstone Mining Ltd 
in Ethiopia.
Post reporting period announcements
• Maiden JORC resource and reserves statement for Montepuez 
was published in July 2015.
• Updated JORC resource and reserves statement for Kagem was 
published in September 2015 supporting a proven and probable 
ore reserve for the mine. 
• Completed binding but conditional acquisitions of interests in 
Colombian licences.
Becoming the global leader in emeralds, 
rubies, sapphires and other selected gemstones 21 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Strategy
Priority
Promoting and 
repositioning the 
coloured gemstone 
industry alongside 
other luxury goods
Ensuring a consistent 
supply of professionally-
graded coloured gemstones 
to world markets
Promoting disclosure, transparency, 
education and certification across 
the coloured gemstone industry in support 
of increased consumer confidence
Leading the way in coloured gemstone 
exploration, operational efficiencies and 
mining ethics
Description
• To drive demand through Gemfields’ 
commitment to communication, 
consumer education, marketing 
and advertising, including global 
consumer campaigns together with 
global brand ambassador, Mila Kunis, 
highlighting the heritage value inherent 
in coloured gemstones. 
• Leverage the Group’s ownership 
of Fabergé, not only to promote 
Gemfields’ position as a leading 
supplier of responsibly sourced 
gemstones, but also provide a greater 
influence over positioning and increased 
consumer awareness.
• To change the face of the coloured 
gemstone sector through Gemfields’ 
pioneering emerald and ruby auction 
platform, bringing a consistent supply of 
responsibly sourced coloured gemstones, 
carefully graded according to the 
Company’s proprietary rough gemstone 
grading systems, to its customers.
• This consistent supply model engineered 
by Gemfields is now in its sixth year, and 
has received much acclaim from many 
stakeholders across the sector.
• To promote the development of globally accepted principles and 
standards in the coloured gemstone sector including raising 
professional standards within the sector and promoting long-term, 
sustainable and integrity-driven operations. 
• To invest in furthering our geological, technical and mining 
expertise in coloured gemstone exploration, evaluation 
and mining.
• To pursue operational excellence through investing in our 
currently operating assets, development projects and people.
• Investigating target sites for possible future inclusion into the 
Gemfields’ portfolio of mines.
Progress FY2015
• Gemfields continues to uphold its 
commitment to supporting the 
promotion of the coloured gemstone 
industry through marketing and 
advertising. During the financial year,  
a total of US$16.2 million was incurred 
on selling, marketing and advertising.
• The coloured gemstone market has 
seen an impressive growth in the past 
few years. 
• In calendar year 2014, global imports of 
coloured gemstones and pearls increased 
to US$8.6 billion (2013: US$6.8 billion). 
There has been an increased use of 
coloured gemstones in new jewellery 
ranges by most major global 
luxury jewellers.
• Emeralds, rubies and sapphires 
alone account for as much as 58% of 
the coloured gemstone and pearl market 
or around US$5 billion.
• During the financial year, Gemfields held 
three emerald and three ruby auctions  
at various locations across the globe.
• A total of approximately 4 million carats 
of rubies and 16 million carats of emeralds 
were sold at auction generating a total 
revenue of US$153 million.
• One amethyst auction was held in the 
financial year and a total of 28 million 
carats of rough amethyst were sold 
generating revenues of US$0.45 million.
• Gemfields is committed to ethical business practices. 
• In addition to the well-known ‘Four Cs’ used by diamond buyers, 
two additional ‘Cs’ (Certification and Character) have been 
incorporated by Gemfields.
• Gemfields is working with its industry partners to make available 
laboratory certificates and chain-of-custody certificates containing 
the Gemfields name.
• Gemfields has supported the creation of an educational film about 
coloured gemstones that covers: History, Geology, Mining, CSR 
and Community, Marketing and To Own a Gemstone.
• Gemfields continues to fully disclose its auction results to the 
market and supports increased disclosure across the sector.
• Bulk sampling continued to progress at Libwente and Fibolele 
within the Kagem licence area.
• Completed the acquisition of a 75% stake in Megaruma Mining 
Limitada, encompassing an additional 300 square kilometres, 
of mining licence area bordering on Montepuez. 
• Completed the acquisition of 75% interest in an emerald 
exploration licence through Web Gemstone Mining Ltd 
in Ethiopia.
Post reporting period announcements
• Maiden JORC resource and reserves statement for Montepuez 
was published in July 2015.
• Updated JORC resource and reserves statement for Kagem was 
published in September 2015 supporting a proven and probable 
ore reserve for the mine. 
• Completed binding but conditional acquisitions of interests in 
Colombian licences. 22 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Key Performance Indicators
Revenue 
US$171.4 million
(2014: US$160.1 million)
EBITDA
US$64.4 million
(2014: US$59.3 million)
Production – Emerald and beryl
30.1 million carats
(2014: 20.2 million carats)
Production – Ruby and corundum
8.4 million carats
(2014: 6.5 million carats)
Description
Revenue represents the value of gemstones and 
Fabergé products sold during the financial year. Via  
its proprietary rough grading platform and auction 
process, Gemfields sells rough emerald and beryl, ruby 
and corundum and amethyst alongside traded rough 
emerald auctions (of gemstones not obtained directly 
from the Company’s own mining operations). 
The Company also sells cut and polished gemstones, 
sourced from its auction partners to a select range  
of designers, manufacturers and retailers.
Description
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Description
Production refers to the number of carats produced 
by the operating mines.
Kagem mine produces rough emerald and beryl 
through its main operating pit Chama, with 
supplementary production from the bulk sampling 
operations at Fibolele and Libwente. 
Montepuez mine produces rough ruby and 
corundum and is currently working on two main 
pits, Maninge Nice and Mugloto.
Commentary
Revenue increased to US$171 million following  
a significant increase in ruby production from 
Montepuez and the subsequent increase in the 
number of rubies sold at auction. During this 
financial year, the Company held three ruby  
auctions (2014: one ruby auction) and three  
emerald auctions (2014: three emerald auctions).  
The six auctions hosted yielded aggregate revenues  
of US$153 million.
Commentary
EBITDA has continued its upward trend and 
increased 9% from the prior year. The Company has 
also maintained its track record and commitment 
to growing the sector by significantly reinvesting in 
exploration, development, marketing and acquisition 
activity for long term value creation.
Commentary
The Kagem emerald mine achieved a 49% increase in 
production this financial year to 30.1 million carats 
of emerald and beryl, the second highest level of 
production since Gemfields took control of Kagem in 
2008. The increase in production is a result of improved 
volumes of ore, better rain management employed by 
the team during the annual wet season, and 2.3 million 
carats produced from bulk sampling operations.
Continued production, exploration and bulk sampling 
activities at Montepuez delivered increased production  
of 8.4 million carats of ruby and corundum for the year.
Outlook FY2016
• Despite some market uncertainty, demand  
for coloured gemstones is expected to remain 
strong throughout the coming year
• Target of at least three emerald and three  
ruby auctions.
• Delivery and recognition of record sales orders 
taken at BaselWorld 2015 for Fabergé.
Outlook FY2016
• Target of 30% to 40% EBITDA margin.
• Gemfields and Fabergé will maintain their 
focus on key marketing initiatives and regions.
• Following the acquisition of exploration licences 
in Sri Lanka, Colombia, Mozambique and 
Ethiopia, the Group forecasts an increase in 
exploration costs in the 2016 financial year.
Outlook FY2016
• Target of 25 million to 30 million carats of 
emerald and beryl production for Kagem.
• Target of 8 million carats of ruby and corundum 
for Montepuez.
• Continuation of exploration and bulk sampling 
not only in the key operating assets, Kagem and 
Montepuez but also in the new licences in Sri 
Lanka, Colombia, Mozambique and Ethiopia. 
• Implementation of various upgrades to be 
actioned in the 2016 and 2017 financial years 
should deliver increased production volumes in 
the 2018 financial year.
Key Performance Indicators 23 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Key Performance Indicators
Capital expenditure – investment Kagem
US$34.8 million
(2014: US$11.9 million) 
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
Gemfields committed at  
least 1% of gross sales at 
Kagem and at Montepuez  
to corporate responsibility 
and sustainability projects.
Safety
In May 2015 the Mines 
Safety Department of 
Zambia awarded Kagem 
with a safety certificate 
recognising 3.5 million 
reportable injury free shifts. 
Capital expenditure – investment Montepuez
US$9.8 million 
(2014: US$6.0 million) 
Description
Capital expenditure is defined as the amount 
invested in new mining equipment, infrastructure 
and stripping costs.
Description
Gemfields has pledged to commit to a budget of at 
least 1% of gross sales at each operating mine to  
fund local social and environmental projects and  
has now created an additional centralised budget  
in order to pursue specific projects pertaining to 
performance improvement.
Description
Gemfields places a high emphasis on safety as 
priority on mine sites with the development of safety 
management systems and a ‘safety first’ culture.
Commentary
A total of US$34.8 million was invested in new 
mining and ancillary equipment, stripping costs and 
improving Kagem’s facilities and infrastructure.
A total of US$9.8 million was invested at Montepuez 
on mining equipment, upgrades to the wash plant 
and infrastructure. 
Commentary
Gemfields redeveloped the Chapula school in 
Lufwanyama District and upgraded the Nkana 
Health Centre in Zambia. At Montepuez, with  
the support of specialist consultants, a baseline  
study has been conducted.
Commentary
Gemfields has strengthened its health & safety 
performance by undertaking a number of studies 
and training to address safety performance gaps.
Outlook FY2016
• Installation of a second washplant at Montepuez 
and an upgrade to the existing washplant to 
increase processing capacity to 320 tonnes per 
hour by 2017 financial year is being considered. 
This should allow increased production to 
20 million carats of rubies by 2018 financial year.
• Additional capital expenditure planned for 
exploration in existing mines and new projects.
• Continued and accelerated waste stripping in the 
Chama pit operation, with a potential increase in 
production to around 40 to 45 million carats in 
the forthcoming years.
Outlook FY2016
• The focus is on strengthening each mine site’s 
operational sustainability projects, such as  
those that relate to environmental management, 
as well as putting in place a clearer and more 
robust means of engaging with communities  
and investing in their livelihoods.
Outlook FY2016
• The focus is on strengthening the mine site 
operational safety teams, implementing an 
international-level safety management system 
and carrying out more extensive training  
of employees. 24 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Operational and Financial Review
Our vision is be recognised as  
the world’s number one coloured  
gemstone company and to maintain  
our success in mining,  
distribution and marketing. 25 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Rough emeralds from  
the Chama pit at  
Kagem, Zambia 26 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Auction revenue
Gemfields offers its rough emerald and ruby production to chosen 
market participants by way of sealed bid auctions where all gemstones 
tendered are certified by Gemfields as being sourced from the 
Gemfields’ mines and any applied gemstone treatments and sources of 
origin are fully disclosed. In addition, Gemfields also offers emeralds 
obtained in the open market from various sources at auction with 
these goods being clearly marked as such. Many of the world’s leading 
gemstone houses and lapidaries are invited to attend these auctions.
During the financial year ending 30 June 2015, Gemfields held three 
rough emerald and beryl auctions as well as three rough ruby and 
corundum auctions at various key locations across the globe:
• 5-8 August 2014: Lower quality rough emerald and beryl,  
Lusaka, Zambia.
• 13-17 November 2014: Higher quality rough emerald,  
Lusaka, Zambia.
• 3-8 December 2014: Higher quality rough ruby, Singapore.
• 24-27 February 2015: Lower quality rough emerald and beryl, 
Lusaka, Zambia.
• 17-22 April 2015: Lower quality rough ruby and corundum, 
Jaipur, India.
• 16-21 June 2015: Higher quality rough ruby, Singapore.
Emerald auction results
The first emerald auction during the financial year, held in August 
2014, was an auction of predominantly lower quality rough emerald 
and beryl. Out of 12.1 million carats offered, 11.6 million carats were 
sold, generating revenues of US$15.5 million. Including the lower 
quality beryl, the overall realised price was US$1.34 per carat.
The second emerald auction, held in November 2014, was of 
predominantly higher quality rough emerald. Out of 0.60 million 
carats offered, 0.53 million carats were sold, generating revenues of 
US$34.9 million. The auction yielded an overall average price of 
US$65.89 per carat, a record value for a higher quality Gemfields 
emerald auction, which represented a significant increase over the 
previous high of US$59.31 per carat (achieved at the February 
2014 auction).
At the third emerald auction, in February 2015, revenues of 
US$14.5 million were realised on the sale of 3.9 million carats of 
predominantly lower quality emerald and beryl, which in turn also 
represented another record overall unit price of US$3.72 per carat for 
emerald and beryl of this quality.
The auction results are summarised in the following table:
Auction results (emerald and beryl)
Date 5-8 August 2014 13-17 November 2014 24-27 February 2015
Location Lusaka, Zambia Lusaka, Zambia Lusaka, Zambia
Type Lower Quality Higher Quality Lower Quality
Carats offered 12.11 million 0.60 million 10.1 million
Carats sold 11.58 million 0.53 million 3.9 million
Number of companies placing bids 21 34 21
Average number of bids per lot 7 12 5
Number of lots offered 21 17 26
Number of lots sold 17 16 19
Percentage of lots sold 81% 94% 73%
Percentage of lots sold by weight 96% 89% 39%
Percentage of lots sold by value 88% 89% 88%
Total sales realised at auction US$15.5 million US$34.9 million US$14.5 million
Average per carat sales value US$1.34/carat US$65.89/carat US$3.72/carat
Operational and Financial Review 27 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Ruby auction results
In December 2014, Gemfields held an auction of predominantly higher 
quality rough ruby in Singapore. A total of 50 participants bid in what 
was Gemfields’ second-ever ruby auction, the first having been held in 
June 2014. The auction generated revenues of US$43.3 million for 
62,936 carats sold out of the total of 85,491 carats offered. The average 
realised price of US$688.64 per carat was the highest price ever achieved 
at any of Gemfields’ gemstone auctions.
In April 2015, Gemfields held an auction of predominantly lower 
quality rough ruby and corundum in Jaipur, India. The auction 
generated revenues of US$15.9 million for 3.96 million carats sold 
out of the total of 4.03 million carats offered. The average realised 
price was US$4.02 per carat.
Gemfields’ third rough ruby auction during the financial year was 
held in Singapore in June 2015. The auction generated total revenues 
of US$29.3 million for 47 ,451 carats sold out of the total of 72,208 
carats offered. The average realised price was US$617 .42 per carat. 
The auction results, which saw 28 of the 46 lots offered being 
sold, indicated further opportunities to educate the market on the 
Company’s products in order for the market to fully appreciate the 
rarity and value of all of the gemstones from Montepuez. This in turn 
further supports the possibility of additional ruby price increases going 
forwards, along the lines of what has been achieved in emerald sales.
Amethyst auction results
Kariba Minerals Limited (“Kariba”), one of the world’s largest 
producing amethyst mines, located in Zambia, achieved good quality 
production of amethyst during the year, with an auction of higher 
quality amethyst being held in Lusaka in February 2015. A total of 
27 .7 million carats of higher quality amethyst extracted from Kariba 
were offered, with 13 out of the total 14 lots sold. This generated 
auction revenues of US$0.45 million and realised an overall average 
value of US¢1.77 per carat.
Kagem Mining Limited, Zambia
Kagem is believed to be the world’s largest producing emerald 
mine and is 75% owned by Gemfields, with 25% owned by the 
Government of the Republic of Zambia. Kagem is located in the 
Ndola Rural Emerald Restricted Area and lies south of Kitwe and 
west of Ndola in Zambia’s Copperbelt Province. Kagem’s licence area 
comprises almost 41 square kilometres and the Chama pit supplies 
approximately 20% of global emerald production. 
Mining
During the year, Kagem progressed its fourth high wall pushback 
programme at the Chama pit. The programme commenced in 2014 
and was designed to expose the emerald and beryl mineralisation at the 
south-eastern edge by 75 metres for open pit ore production for at least 
two to three years at the current rate of operations. The programme has 
progressed well and was completed in September 2015. 
Following the updated Resource and Reserve Statement from SRK 
completed in September 201 5, Kagem has updated its mine plan and 
is now planning for a continued waste stripping of the Chama pit 
over the life of mine. The accelerated waste stripping will provide for 
approximately two to three years of ore available for mining at any 
given point in time.
Auction results (ruby and corundum)
Dates 3-8 December 2014 17-22 April 2015 16-21 June 2015
Location Singapore Jaipur, India Singapore
Type Rough Ruby 
(Higher Quality) 
Rough Ruby & Corundum 
(Lower Quality)
Rough Ruby
(Higher Quality)
Carats offered 85,491 4.03 million 72,208
Carats sold 62,936 3.96 million 47,451
Number of lots offered 41 64 46
Number of lots sold 35 57 28
Percentage of lots sold 85% 89% 61%
Percentage of lots sold by weight 74% 98% 66%
Percentage of lots sold by market value 93% 81% 72%
Total sales realised at auction US$43.3 million US$15.9 million US$29.3 million
Average per carat sales value US$688.64/carat US$4.02/carat US$617.42/carat
Highest average price per carat 
US$688.64
Highest average price per carat achieved 
at higher quality ruby auction in 
December 2014 28 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Case study
Kagem moves ahead with US$2 million 
programme of community work
On 13 January 2015, then Acting President Hon. Dr Guy Scott 
officially launched a US$2 million programme of community work 
by Kagem Mining Ltd with a ground-breaking ceremony for a new 
secondary school at Chapula and upgrade of Nkana Health Centre 
in the Lufwanyama District. 
Construction of the secondary school will include ten classrooms, two science 
laboratories, two computer rooms, a library, needlework and home craft rooms,  
an administrative block, ablution blocks, and a borehole. 
The Company is also funding the construction of 
a four-ward mini-hospital at Nkana Clinic with a 
maternity unit, along with two nurses’ accommodation 
blocks and a borehole, giving people improved access 
to more advanced healthcare facilities at a local level. 
“Education and health are key components of our 
vision to improve the livelihoods of the people of 
Lufwanyama, along with the conservation of our 
shared environment,” said Kagem and Gemfields 
Chief Executive Officer Ian Harebottle.
Maternity unit at Nkana Clinic. 29 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
to the required level of investment and finalisation of the upgrades to 
the open pit mine plan.
T otal operating costs were US$44.5 million (2014: US$32.0 million). 
Unit operating costs were US$1.48 per carat (2014: US$1.58 per carat). 
On a cash basis unit, operating costs were US$1.45 per carat (2014: 
US$1.36 per carat) largely driven by the significant increases in scale of 
the overall mining operations. Cash rock handling unit costs decreased 
by 22% to US$2.90 per tonne (2014: US$3.70 per tonne).
JORC Resource and Reserve 
In September 201 5, Gemfields announced an updated JORC-compliant 
Resource and Reserve Statement. The Mineral Resource Statement for 
the Kagem Mine as at 31 May 201 5 is given in the table below and is 
based on detailed geological modelling of the mineralisation types, and 
the application of factors derived from the on-going mining and bulk 
sampling. The report, which is shown on a 100% attributable basis and 
where Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves, confirmed an 
Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource of 1.8 billion carats of emerald 
and beryl at an in-situ grade of 281 carats per tonne.
Mineral Resources Statement
Deposit Classification Tonnage (kt) Grade (ct/t) Contained carats (ct,000)
Chama Measured Mineral Resources 800 345 290,000
Indicated Mineral Resources 3,800 345 1,310,000
Inferred Mineral Resources – – –
Measured + Indicated 4,600 345 1,600,000
Sub-total
4,600 345 1,600,000
Fibolele Measured Mineral Resources – – –
Indicated Mineral Resources 170 119 20,300
Inferred Mineral Resources 1,450 119 172,100
Measured + Indicated 170 119 20,300
Sub-total
1,620 119 192,400
Libwente Measured Mineral Resources – – –
Indicated Mineral Resources – – –
Inferred Mineral Resources 200 46 9,100
Measured + Indicated – – –
Sub-total
200 46 9,100
Total Measured Mineral Resources 800 345 290,000
Indicated Mineral Resources 3,970 335 1,330,300
Inferred Mineral Resources 1,650 110 181,200
Measured + Indicated 4,770 340 1,620,300
Sub-total 6,420 281 1,801,500
Ore Reserve Statement
Classification Mineralisation type Tonnage (kt) Grade (ct/t) Contained carats (kct)
Proved Chama Reaction Zone 920 300 276,018
Fibolele Reaction Zone 0 0 0
Total proved Reaction Zone 920 300 276,018
Probable Chama Reaction Zone 2,739 300 821,808
Fibolele Reaction Zone 177 103 18,312
Total probable Reaction Zone 2,916 288 840,121
Proved and probable Chama Reaction Zone 3,659 300 1,097,826
Fibolele Reaction Zone 177 103 18,312
Total proved and probable Reaction Zone 3,836 291 1,116,138
Note: Resources and Reserves are shown on a 100% attributable basis. Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves. 
For the economic analysis as part of the Competent Person’s Report (“CPR”), SRK Consulting (UK) Limited (“SRK”), has constructed an 
independent Technical Economic Model (“TEM”) on a 100% equity basis, described below. Highlights of the TEM include:
• 25 year life of mine (“LoM”) for Chama pit and seven years for Fibolele, yielding 1.1 billion carats of emerald and beryl.
• A post-tax net-present-value (“NPV”) of US$520 million, based on a 10% base-case discount rate and mineral royalty of 9%.
• Projected revenue of US$4.3 billion and projected operating costs of US$1.0 billion in real terms.
• Capital expenditure of US$206 million and stripping spend of US$310 million in real terms over the LoM.
Gemstone production for the year increased 49% year on year to  
30.1 million carats of emerald and beryl (2014: 20.2 million carats). 
This production was realised from the Chama pit (27 .8 million carats) 
and the bulk sampling projects (2.3 million carats). The increased 
gemstone production is predominantly as a result of improved 
volumes of ore mined throughout the year. The first six months of 
financial year 2015 saw 12.1 million carats produced compared to 
10.4 million carats during the comparative period in the prior year, 
followed by a record 18.0 million carats of production during the six 
months ended June 2015 compared to 9.8 million carats mined in the 
comparative period. The increase in annual carat production is in part 
due to the fluctuating nature of gemstone deposits as well as a result 
of the better rain management employed by Kagem during the rainy 
season. Kagem provides annual guidance to the market of 25 to 30 
million carats of emerald and beryl and this year produced the second 
highest annual production of carats since Gemfields acquired Kagem 
in 2008, only surpassed by the 33 million carats produced in 2011. 
Kagem has the potential to increase production to around 40 to 45 
million carats of emerald and beryl in the forthcoming years, subject  30 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Operational and Financial Review 
continued
Capital expenditure
During the year, a total of US$34.8 million (2014: US$11.9 million) 
was invested in new mining and ancillary equipment, deferred 
stripping costs, as well as in improving Kagem’s facilities and 
infrastructure. Of the US$34.8 million, Kagem invested US$20.8 
million on deferred stripping costs, US$7 .6 million in additional 
mining equipment to increase the production capacity of Kagem, 
with the remaining US$6.4 million spent on replacing existing 
mining and ancillary equipment. 
Processing
The Kagem wash plant achieved a total of 5,247 hours of operation 
(2014: 4,788 hours). As part of the ongoing efficiency drive at Kagem, 
the wash plant processing capacity and its security arrangements are 
being upgraded with a view to increasing the plant output from 33 
tonnes per hour to a potential 66 tonnes per hour. This will lead to an 
increase in optimisation of the process flows, increased operating 
flexibility and enhanced overall production capacity and productivity 
at Kagem. The upgrade is expected to be completed by the end of the 
2015 calendar year.
The modified and new picking belts are located within an improved 
washing facility, leading to a better working environment with 
enhanced levels of ventilation, lighting and noise reduction, resulting 
in fewer distractions and better overall control. These improvements 
will also result in reduced maintenance costs, more efficient gemstone 
selection from the belts and enhanced overall security.
Kagem’s annual production performance is summarised in the 
table below:
An emerald crystal in-situ in the main pit at Kagem, Zambia.
Kagem annual production summary 30 June 2008 30 June 2009 30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2014 30 June 2015
Gemstone production (emerald + beryl) in million carats 9.9 28.0 17.4 33.0 21.1 30.0 20.2 30.1
Ore production (reaction zone) in thousand tonnes 42.3 80.3 60.8 69.1 102.9 105.9 80.0 124.3
Grade (emerald + beryl/reaction zone) in carats/tonne 234 349 286 478 205 283 253 242
Waste mined (including TMS) in million tonnes 5.1 4.0 2.5 3.9 8.7 9.5 7.3 14.9
Total rock handling in million tonnes 5.1 4.1 2.6 4.0 8.8 9.6 7.4 15.0
Stripping ratio 121 50 42 56 85 90 91 120
Emerald and beryl production 
30.1 m carats
30.1 million carats of emerald and beryl 
were produced (2014: 20.2 million carats) 31 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Geology and exploration
While the Chama pit remains the main focus with respect to current 
production activities and contains the bulk of the known resources, 
Gemfields’ mineral resource strategy continues to focus on 
identifying various opportunities within its mining licence area that 
are available for further assessment by way of bulk sampling and other 
exploration programmes. 
The Libwente pit, located three kilometres from the Chama pit is one 
of two new bulk sampling projects at Kagem and has the potential to 
extend the Fwaya Fwaya Pirala belt (the same talc-magnetite schist 
(“TMS”) which is mined at the Chama pit) in a north-easterly 
direction. Exploration work undertaken in recent years delineated 
shallow-dipping TMS varying in thickness from eight to ten metres 
and occurring at a depth range of 20 to 70 metres. Bulk sampling of 
this pit commenced in 2014 and has progressed well, resulting in an 
increase in overall scale of operations during the year. The pit was 
developed by the removal of the overburden which has recently 
reached the productive level of top TMS. A total of 2.0 million tonnes 
was excavated during the year. 161 thousand carats were produced, 
at a grade of 37 carats per tonne, from five contacts indicating the 
presence of potential productive system. 
The Fibolele pit, located 2.7 kilometres from the Chama pit also saw 
increased gemstone production and bulk sampling during the year. 
Based on the encouraging results achieved during the first of two phases 
of bulk sampling, a third phase has now been planned. This will 
increase the pit size to 590 metres in length and 50 metres in depth, 
with a planned stripping ratio of 57:1. A total of 2.1 million carats 
were excavated at a grade of 167 carats per tonne during the year.
Security
The security environment is constantly evolving given changes 
to workflows and production scenarios. Security measures are 
continuously reviewed and updated in order to minimise the security 
risk. By staying abreast of the latest technological developments, 
Kagem is able to consistently improve its surveillance technology, 
an important deterrent against pilferage and pivotal in ensuring the 
safeguarding of assets.
Key security initiatives implemented during the year include 
extensive upgrades to the CCTV infrastructure in the mining pit, 
security gates and sort house and the implementation of professional 
CCTV monitoring personnel at a CCTV central control room. These 
measures have yielded considerable improvements but with the 
unfortunate and associated consequence of an increase in the number 
of apprehensions.
Safety and environment
Mining operations inherently impact on the environment and 
pose some level of risk to the health and safety of employees. Kagem 
prides itself on its ability to produce emeralds that are mined in a 
responsible, transparent and safe manner with minimised impact on 
the natural environment. In May 2015, Gemfields’ track record in 
safety management was once again recognised by the Mines Safety 
Department of Zambia who awarded Kagem a safety certificate 
recognising 3.5 million shifts free of reportable injuries, an LTIF 
of zero for the year (2014: zero).
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada, Mozambique
The Montepuez ruby deposit is located in the north-east of 
Mozambique in the Cabo Delgado Province. Covering approximately 
33,600 hectares, it is believed to be the most significant recently 
discovered ruby deposit in the world. MRM holds a 25 year mining 
and exploration licence over the area, granted by the Government of 
Mozambique in November 2011. 
Montepuez has been undertaking exploration within the licence 
area since 2012. The main sources of exploration, following on 
from the completed ground and areal magnetic studies, include 
auger and diamond drilling, small scale pits and bulk sampling. 
These programmes have been supplemented by geological mapping, 
satellite imagery and geophysical and soil geochemistry surveys.
Gemfields’ Chama pit, Kagem, Zambia.
Zambia became the world’s leading producer of 
rough emeralds and beryl in 2014 and it’s host 
to Kagem, which is believed to be the world’s 
largest producing emerald and beryl mining 
operation. Gemfields’ strategy is to expand 
production at Kagem and set the foundations 
for sustaining long term open pit operations. 32 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Mining
The Montepuez operation primarily comprises a number of large bulk 
sampling pits split between the two main operating areas, Mugloto 
and Maninge Nice. Bulk sampling is carried out as a conventional 
open-pit gravel operation with excavators, loaders and trucks. Loaded 
trucks haul ore to the stockpiles at the wash plant while waste is 
backfilled into the mined-out areas.
During the year, a technical review was carried out by Montepuez to 
further optimise the mining of rubies and corundum. The technical 
review resulted in a decision to expand the scale of the operation 
including additions to the fleet which saw an increase in total rock 
handling to an average of 250 thousand tonnes per month compared 
to 130 thousand tonnes per month in the previous financial year. 
Montepuez’s key operational parameters for the financial year are 
summarised below:
Montepuez annual production summary 30 June 2013 30 June 2014 30 June 2015
Gemstone production 
(ruby+corundum) in million 
carats
1.9 6.5 8.4
Ore production 
(primary+secondary) in 
thousand tonnes
26.7 408.6 438.9
Ore processed 
(primary+secondary) in 
thousand tonnes
13.3 158.2 325.4
Grade (ruby+corundum/ore 
processed) in carats/tonne
143
(a)
41
(a)
26
Waste mined in thousand 
tonnes
63.0 1,192.1 2,530.5
Total rock handling in  
thousand tonnes
89.7 1,600.6 2,969.4
Stripping ratio 2.4 2.9 5.8
(a)  The grade disclosed in the June 2014 Annual Report was calculated based on gemstone products 
divided by ore production. The grade is now calculated based on gemstone production divided by 
ore processed. The 2013 and 2014 grades have been restated.
Total tonnes excavated during the financial year was 3.0 million 
tonnes (2014: 1.6 million tonnes), made up of 0.4 million tonnes of 
ore and 2.6 million tonnes of waste. The overall stripping ratio was 
5.8 (2014: 2.9). Around 74% of the total rock excavated was focused 
on the Mugloto block, 23% on the Maninge Nice block and the 
remaining 3% from other pits. The increased focus on the Mugloto 
block was the result of the discovery of higher value deposits spread 
over a large area primarily in the alluvial gravel beds. This resulted in 
an overall decrease in grade, supported by a considerable increase in 
the value of goods mined.
Approximately 325 thousand tonnes of ore were processed by the 
wash plant (2014: 158 thousand tonnes) with an average grade of 
26 carats per tonne (2014: 41 carats per tonne).
A total of 8.4 million carats of ruby and corundum were produced 
during the financial year (2014: 6.5 million carats). Of the total 8.4 
million carats, 8.2 million carats were recovered from the Maninge 
Nice primary and secondary ore and 0.2 million carats from the 
Mugloto secondary ore.
 
Total operating costs were US$21.6 million (2014: US$7 .3 million). 
Unit operating costs were US$2.57 per carat (2014: US$1.12 per 
carat). On a cash basis, unit operating costs were US$2.18 per carat 
(2014: US$1.68 per carat). Cash rock handling unit costs decreased 
by 10% to US$6.16 per tonne (2014: US$6.81 per tonne).
Processing 
Ore excavated from the Maninge Nice and Mugloto pits is brought 
to a centralised stock yard adjacent to the wash plant. During the 
year, an additional rinsing screen was installed to replace the dry 
screen and improve the performance and capacity of the wash plant 
during the rainy season. This helped support and increase processing 
performance achieved over the financial year to 100 tonnes per hour. 
Further upgrades are proposed to increase the capacity to 150 tonnes 
per hour, with an expected operational run rate of 120 tonnes 
per hour.
A water reservoir and large dam have been constructed adjacent to 
the wash plant for the collection of rain water. Seven large-diameter 
water boreholes across the licence area, combined with the utilisation 
of meteoric water collected within the exposed bulk sampling pits, 
further supplement water supplies.
Montepuez is considering a further increase to its current processing 
capacity through the installation of a second wash plant with a 250 
tonnes per hour capacity, which will operate at 200 tonnes per hour. 
This will increase the overall project processing capacity to 320 tonnes 
per hour. The new process plant will incorporate washing, screening 
and dense media separation (“DMS”)/optical sorters to recover the 
rubies, together with fine tailings dewatering.
Operational and Financial Review 
continued 33 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
‘Eyes of the Dragon’ an exceptional 
and rare matching pair of rough 
rubies, discovered earlier this year at 
Montepuez, with a combined weight 
of 45 carats.
Montepuez Ruby Mine, Mozambique.
Mozambique is believed to be the most significant ruby deposit 
find since deposits were first discovered in Myanmar. Montepuez 
is helping to revive the global ruby trade and has already 
achieved positive results. Gemfields’ strategy is to accelerate a 
ramp-up in production of Montepuez over the next few years. 34 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Geology and exploration
The rubies at Montepuez are found in two mineralisation types, 
namely: primary amphibolite and secondary gravel bed.
The Montepuez mining area comprises rocks ranging from granitic 
to amphibolitic in composition, with scattered quartzite and marble 
occurrences. On a regional scale, the rocks are highly folded into 
tight isoclinal folds of all scales, subsequently cut by a number of 
north-east to south-west trending shear zones. Due to the complexity 
of folding, the host rocks display more open folding in the Montepuez 
mining area.
To date, rubies from Montepuez differ geologically from many of the 
rubies traditionally available in the international market in that they 
are amphibolite related rather than marble or basalt related. 
Rubies from the primary amphibolitic mineralisation are typically 
tabular hexagonal crystals, with a strong basal cleavage. The gemstones 
are highly fractured and included. Typically, the production from 
primary mineralisation is lighter, pink colour, and is often classified as 
sapphires. In contrast, the production from the secondary gravel bed 
deposit is dark red in colour, more transparent, with fewer inclusions, 
and often rounded in shape.
Operational and Financial Review 
continued
Mineral Resource Statement
The Mineral Resource Statement for Montepuez as at 1 January 2015 is shown below. 
Area Deposit Type Classification
Density 
(g/cm3)
Tonnage 
(‘000 tonnes)
Grade 
(carats per tonne)
Contained Carats 
(million carats)
Maninge Nice Primary Indicated Mineral Resources 2.15 2,124 115.4 245
Primary Inferred Mineral Resources 2.15 378 115.4 44
Secondary Indicated Mineral Resources 1.53 305 349.8 107
Mugloto Secondary Indicated Mineral Resources 1.95 4,693 15.3 72
Total Primary Indicated + Inferred 2.15 2,502 115.4 289
Secondary Indicated + Inferred 1.91 4,998 35.7 178
Note: Resources and Reserves are shown on a 100% attributable basis. Mineral Resources are inclusive of Ore Reserves.
The secondary deposit is currently interpreted to be related to a flood 
event, which was later reworked by a braided river system. The source 
of the secondary deposit is yet to be identified. It is thought to lie 
outside of the area currently delineated by exploration drilling 
and pitting.
Maiden Resource and Reserve Statement
During the year, Gemfields commissioned SRK Consulting (UK) 
Limited (“SRK”) to prepare a Competent Persons’ Report (“CPR”) 
covering a total area of 36 square kilometres out of the total mining 
concession area of 336 square kilometres. In July 2015, Gemfields 
announced its first JORC-compliant Resource and Reserve Statement 
at Montepuez, well ahead of its target completion date of 
December 2015.
The report confirmed Montepuez was host to an Indicated and Inferred 
Mineral Resource of 467 million carats of ruby and corundum at 
an in-situ grade of 62.3 carats per tonne. Furthermore, the report 
confirmed Probable Ore Reserves of 432 million carats of ruby and 
corundum at a diluted ore grade of 15.7 carats per tonne.
Ruby and corundum produced 
8.4m carats
A total of 8.4 million carats of ruby  
and corundum produced in 2015  
(2014: 6.5 million carats) 35 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Ore Reserves
As at 1 July 2015, SRK notes that the Montepuez ruby deposit has Ore 
Reserves of 2.2 million tonnes of primary material grading at 114.9 
carats per tonne and 25.3 million tonnes of secondary material 
grading at 7 .1 carats per tonne. 
Classification Deposit Type
Tonnage  
(thousand  
tonnes dry)
Grade  
(carats per 
tonne)
Contained 
Carats  
(thousand 
carats)
Proved 
Maninge Nice
Primary – – –
Secondary – – –
Mugloto
Primary – – –
Secondary – – –
Probable    
Maninge Nice
Primary 2,199 114.9 252,557
Secondary 1,837 58.3 107,103
Mugloto
Primary – – –
Secondary 23,514 3.1 72,050
Proved & Probable    
Maninge Nice
Primary 2,199 114.9 252,557
Secondary 1,837 58.3 107,103
Mugloto
Primary – – –
 Secondary 23,514 3.1 72,050
Total 27,549 15.7 431,620
Note: Resources and Reserves are shown on a 100% attributable basis. Mineral Resources are 
inclusive of Ore Reserves.
As part of the CPR, SRK provided an Independent Technical 
Economic Model based on a 100% equity basis. Highlights of the 
economic parameters included:
• Projected 21 year life of mine (“LoM”) producing a total of  
432 million carats over the LoM;
• Projected real cash flow (no discount rate applied) over the  
LoM of approximately US$2.76 billion; 
• Robust economics shows a post-tax Net Present Value (“NPV”) 
of US$996 million (based on 10% discount rate) and an Internal 
Rate of Return (“IRR”) of 311.7%; and
• Capital expenditure of US$64 million over the first two years  
and a total of US$305 million over LoM, in real terms.
Sorting, rough sales and auctions 
A sorting facility exists at the mine camp which includes a grading 
room, 20 gloved sort boxes, secured storage and a waste facility. 
A CCTV surveillance system is in operation throughout the sort 
house on a 24/7 basis. This sorting facility has been centralised and is 
positioned close to the wash plant. Concentrated gravel is transported 
directly in secured lockboxes from the jigs to the sort house where it is 
sorted and graded by hand.
Capital expenditure
During the year, a total of US$9.8 million (2014: US$6.0 million) 
was invested in new mining and ancillary equipment, as well 
as in improving Montepuez facilities and infrastructure. Of the 
US$9.8 million, US$7 .7 million was invested in additional mining 
equipment to increase the production capacity of Montepuez, with 
the remaining US$2.1 million spent on replacing existing mining 
and ancillary equipment.
Infrastructure 
Montepuez is served by a fully operational base camp at 
Namanhumbir and includes pre-fabricated accommodation, office 
facilities and recreation amenities for all of Montepuez resident 
employees. The average number of people employed at Montepuez 
including contractors was 499 (2014: 429).
The mine’s camp site is due to undergo a significant upgrade in 
the 2015/16 financial year and a contract has been awarded for the 
construction of a large expansion to the residential camp. This 
includes new permanent housing units as well as improved roads, 
water purification capabilities, office and leisure facilities.
Security 
Given the size and nature of the Montepuez ruby licence, unlicensed 
mining activity and asset loss remain key challenges. However, new 
infrastructure, a significant security presence and ongoing efforts have 
resulted in a measured improvement during the year.
An extensive and dynamic security plan has been formulated and 
is being implemented at site level. The plan will aim to separate the 
security department into an independently functioning unit. Internal 
security personnel, with experience from the Mozambican military, 
have been hired with the aim of increasing the level of diversity, skills 
and discipline available within the security function. 
Safety and environment 
Gemfields is formalising a group-level standard for health and safety 
reporting and procedures. Regular training sessions are held for all 
employees on various subjects, including health and safety in addition 
to ‘toolbox talks’ given at the start of each shift. The completion 
of a module of training with Montepuez results in certification for 
employees. On 1 May 2015, International Workers Day, Montepuez 
presented awards to the most safety conscious employees.
Social initiatives are currently underway within the local 
communities, including the completion of various improvements 
to the local maternity ward. In June 2015, Montepuez celebrated 
World Environment Day by inviting children from the local schools 
to participate in talks concerning the environment at Montepuez 
and replanting an area of reclaimed land within the Mugloto block. 
Environmental and social impact assessment studies have been carried 
out and were submitted to the Mozambique Ministry of Environment 
during the year.
There is a potential requirement to carry out a resettlement of 
some villagers from the Montepuez concession to gain access to 
economically viable parts of the mine. Presently, Montepuez is 
at the stage of identifying possible relocation sites with the local 
government having spent the last year carrying out local census and 
data collection. This process is expected to conclude by the end of 
the 2015 calendar year with the approval of the resettlement action 
plan if so required. 36 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Case study
An objet d’art masterpiece: the 
Fabergé Pearl Egg
Fabergé restored its revered tradition of creating the most precious and 
coveted of objets d’art earlier this year with the launch of the Fabergé 
Pearl Egg – the first egg created in the ‘Imperial Class’ since 1917 – 
which was unveiled at the 2015 Doha Watch and Jewellery Exhibition.
The Fabergé Pearl Egg pays homage to the forthcoming centenary of the last Fabergé 
Imperial Eggs ever delivered. 
— 
See page 37
The Fabergé Pearl Egg draws inspiration from 
the formation of a pearl within an oyster, and 
the egg’s exquisitely-crafted mother-of-pearl 
exterior opens to reveal a unique grey pearl of 
12.17 carats, sourced from the Arabian Gulf  
and exhibiting exceptional purity and a highly 
unusual shade of grey.
The Fabergé Pearl Egg 37 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Acquisition of additional ruby licences in Mozambique
The acquisition of a controlling interest in two additional ruby 
deposits in Mozambique was completed during the financial year. 
Valid for an initial period of 25 years, the licences were formally 
issued by the Mozambican government on 22 September 2014 
and 12 November 2014 respectively to a new company, Megaruma 
Mining Limitada (“Megaruma”) in which Gemfields is a 75% 
shareholder. The two licences, which do not border one another, each 
share a boundary with the existing Montepuez ruby deposit and cover 
approximately 19,000 hectares and 15,000 hectares respectively. The 
Megaruma licences are expected to provide a platform, alongside the 
Montepuez ruby deposit, for the expansion and development of 
Gemfields’ Mozambique ruby operations.
Kariba Minerals Limited, Zambia
Kariba Minerals Limited (“Kariba”) remains one of the world’s largest 
producing amethyst mines, accounting for around 40% of the world’s 
amethyst production. Kariba’s vision for the future is to more closely 
align itself with Gemfields’ marketing initiatives to further promote 
amethyst’s positioning, demand and significance across all key 
customer markets. 
Operations at the mine developed steadily throughout the year 
with total rock handling standing at 276 thousand tonnes including 
23 thousand tonnes of ore mined at an average grade of 47kg per 
tonne. In the previous financial year, the total rock handling was 
110 thousand tonnes with 10 thousand tonnes of ore mined at an 
average grade of 28kg per tonne. 
The mine underwent some additional changes during the year 
including the installation of a new canteen. Work also commenced 
on the development of a new solar power system to support a more 
consistent and reliable electricity supply to both the mine site and 
the surrounding community. The majority of the mining activity 
continues to take place at the ‘Top Curlew’ pit, producing around 
90% of the mine’s ore. However, in March 2015 a new pit was 
opened, the ‘Curlew Main’, which recently commenced production. 
Ratnapura Lanka Gemstones (Pvt) Limited, Sri Lanka
In September 2014, Gemfields entered into an agreement with 
East West Gem Investments Limited (“EWGI”), a Jersey registered 
company, to progress opportunities in Sri Lanka for sapphires.
As part of the agreement, a gemstone trading company called 
Ratnapura Lanka Gemstones (Pvt) Ltd (“Ratnapura Lanka 
Gemstones”) was created, of which Gemfields own 75%. This 
company has been approved by the Board of Investments of Sri Lanka 
and was created to source rough sapphires from pre-vetted parties 
already operating within the local market. This will help to promote 
a transparent and ethical gemstone platform in order to realise the 
full value of sapphires and to the benefit of local industry and all 
stakeholders. Ratnapura Lanka Gemstones has since applied and been 
granted a trading licence by the Board of Investment Sri Lanka which 
has allowed the company to procure several small shipments of Sri 
Lankan sapphires for analysis.
The venture has also acquired 75% operating interests in certain 
exploration licences covering diverse minerals and plans to commence 
a preliminary geological assessment covering these licences to 
examine their prospectivity.
Web Gemstone Mining plc, Ethiopia
In February 2015, Gemfields completed the acquisition of 75% 
shares in Web Gemstone Mining plc (“Web Gemstone”), an Ethiopian 
registered company. Web Gemstone holds an emerald exploration 
licence covering a total concession area of 200 square kilometres. A new 
exploration team was recruited on site to help explore and develop the 
potential within the area. A base camp has also been established on the 
concession and a team was stationed there in June 2015. 
Exploration work has recently been commenced for the coming 
financial year with a preliminary ground survey, mapping and 
preparation of base plans. A manual pitting and trenching exercise has 
been initiated on a promising area in the north of the licence, selected 
on geological indicators and past artisanal activity. The results of these 
activities will help guide the future course of exploration in the area.
Oriental Mining SARL, Madagascar
Oriental Mining SARL (“Oriental”) has not been subject to any large 
scale ground activity this financial year due to several political changes 
in Madagascar. Oriental will not look to progress any exploration 
programmes until the company has all of the relevant licences in place. 
Fabergé Limited
The acquisition of 100% of Fabergé Limited by Gemfields in January 
2013 aligned a leading coloured gemstone producer with one of the 
world’s most recognisable luxury brands. The acquisition enabled 
Gemfields to accelerate its vision, harnessing the Fabergé brand, to raise 
the international presence and perception of coloured gemstones and 
advance the Group’s ‘mine and market’ vision.
Following the acquisition, Gemfields is able to operate in the two most 
profitable channels of the coloured gemstone supply chain, the ‘mine’ 
and the ‘market’. In addition, the combination provides for increased 
market share and the ability to provide a structured global marketing 
programme to further drive demand for coloured gemstones.
In addition to the directly-operated stores, Fabergé continued to 
expand its global presence during the year to 30 June 2015 via an 
increased number of agreements with retail partners. At 30 June 2015, 
Fabergé products were available in Australia, Azerbaijan, Czech 
Republic, Malta, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, Thailand, UAE, 
UK, Ukraine and USA. Since 30 June 2015 further agreements have 
been completed resulting in Fabergé products now being available in 
Bahrain and Canada.
During the financial year, Fabergé underwent further optimisation 
of the business, including management appointments, as part of the 
medium term strategy of becoming a standalone profitable business unit 
within the Gemfields group. Significant progress was made across all 
three product categories namely jewellery, timepieces and relaunching of 
the tradition of Imperial Class Objets. In addition, several nominations 
were bestowed on the new timepieces demonstrating the significant 
potential for the innovative designs and progress being made by Fabergé. 
Political turbulence in important markets such as Russia and Ukraine, 
and investment in branding and marketing campaigns which are yet to 
be released, impacted on Fabergé’s overall sales growth. However, record 
orders were received at BaselWorld 201 5 and these revenues will be 
recognised in the coming year when the deliveries are made. Fabergé 
also recorded improved revenues from sales of larger coloured gemstones 
through its Devotion collection. 38 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Cost saving initiatives resulted in a 5% saving on administrative costs. 
T otal operating costs during the financial year were US$18.1 million 
(2014: US$19.3 million). The net EBITDA loss was US$14.2 million 
(2014: US$14.3 million). Wholesale points of sale increased by 33% 
in the current financial year. The total number of Fabergé boutiques 
and distribution channels increased from 16 to 20 during the year.
Marketing
Fabergé continued its association with Harrods during March 2015 
in the lead up to Easter. In keeping with the tradition of innovation 
and surprise, Fabergé developed two digital applications for client 
interaction and engagement. These included the Fabergé Egg Burst, 
which allowed clients to design their own Fabergé egg that was 
then displayed in the Harrods front window using 3D mapping. 
In addition, the in-store ‘Fabergé Egg Hunt’ engaged visitors in 
hunting for six large collectors’ eggs hidden throughout Harrods 
using their smartphone and a specially designed app.
Fabergé also exhibited at the prestigious art, antique and design fair 
‘Masterpiece London’ for the first time this year at the end of June 
2015. As one of only two Salon Partners, Fabergé demonstrated 
its legendary creations, from gemstones to masterpieces, tracing 
the journey of the creation process from rough stones to finished 
jewellery and timepieces, drawing inspiration from its illustrious past.
Launch and sale of the first Imperial Class Objet d’Art 
T o mark the upcoming 100
th
 anniversary of the last imperial egg 
commissioned in 1916, Fabergé relaunched the tradition of the Imperial 
Class Objets in the year. The first such objet, the Fabergé Pearl Egg, was 
introduced at the Doha International Jewellery Show in February 201 5. 
It was purchased in Doha by Hussain Al Fardan, the renowned Qatari 
businessman, one of the largest natural pearl collectors in the world. 
The second Imperial Class Objet set is close to completion and 
comprises a series of four eggs that reflect the four seasons. Each egg  
is designed to carry a surprise inside. The summer egg was presented 
exclusively at the Fabergé Salon at Masterpiece London in June 2015.
Timepiece collection
During the financial year, Fabergé launched the timepiece collection 
including the Fabergé Lady Compliqée Peacock and Winter timepieces 
and the mens’ Visionnaire I. The ladies’ watches offer a movement that 
has been created exclusively for Fabergé and comprise a four-cog 
mechanism that enables a peacock’s tail, or a snowflake, to fan out with 
the passage of time. 
The Mens’ Fabergé Visionnaire I offers a flying tourbillon. The dial is 
made up of seven separate segments that cover the movement only 
partially. The timepieces will be available to buy at Fabergé boutiques 
and partners’ points of sale from November 2015. 
The new timepiece collection was nominated as part of the top picks of 
several specialist watch publications including WatchPro and Revolution, 
as well as in the online editions of Vanity Fair and Harpers Bazaar.
Other new jewellery collections
BaselWorld 2015 saw the release of the high jewellery collection 
‘Summer in Provence’ and the new Rococo and Heritage core 
collections. The high jewellery collection ‘Secret Garden’ was presented 
at the International Jewellery Show in Doha in February 2015. 
Operational and Financial Review 
continued
Fabergé Visionnaire I, Haute Horlogerie watch for men 39 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Operational and Financial Review
Year ahead
The Fabergé Lady Peacock high complication watch, and the ‘Summer 
in Provence’ high jewellery ladies watch qualified as entrants for the 
prestigious Grand Prix d’Horlogerie de Genève, one of the most revered 
watch competitions in the world. Results will be announced in Geneva 
at the end of October 2015. 
Fabergé’s new advertising campaigns will launch in November 2015 
and combined with the expanded points of presence around the 
globe, set the stage for further improvements in overall sales and 
financial performance. 
Fabergé is particularly pleased with the reception received for its 
timepiece and Objets collections, and looks forward to monitoring 
sales for these products as they become available for purchase.
Post Reporting Period Events
September 2015 rough emerald and amethyst auction
From 31 August to 4 September 2015, after the end of the 
financial year, an auction of higher quality rough emerald was held 
in Singapore and yielded aggregate revenues of US$34.7 million, the 
third highest aggregate revenue achieved for higher quality emerald of 
this nature. In addition, Gemfields auctioned higher quality rough 
amethysts from Kariba yielding revenues of US$0.44 million.
Acquisitions
Colombia
In September 2015, Gemfields announced binding but conditional 
agreements to acquire controlling interests in two emerald projects 
with operations and prospects located predominantly in the Boyacá 
state in Colombia.
The first project relates to the Coscuez Emerald Mine in the Boyacá 
department, Colombia and is the acquisition of a 70% interest in a 
Colombian company which will, on completion, hold mining contract 
no. 122-95M (the “Coscuez Licence”, which is presently held by 
Esmeracol S.A.). Located on the “Muzo formation”, the Coscuez 
Licence covers an area of 47 hectares, with the Coscuez mine – one of 
history’s more significant emerald deposits – having been in operation 
for over 25 years and known to have produced some of the finest 
emeralds from Colombia. Geological due diligence studies were carried 
out by Gemfields between October 2013 and August 2014. 
The Coscuez Licence includes exclusive rights for the exploration, 
construction and mining of emerald deposits granted by the 
Government of the Republic of Colombia within the area historically 
known as the ‘Coscuez mine’ in the municipality of San Pablo de 
Borbur, Department of Boyacá. Under the terms of the transaction 
agreements, Esmeracol S.A. will transfer the Coscuez Licence to a 
newly incorporated Colombian company (“Coscuez NewCo”) and 
Gemfields will, at completion, acquire an indirect 70% interest in 
Coscuez NewCo by way of a purchase of shares in a new holding 
company of Coscuez NewCo. The geological due diligence studies 
carried out by Gemfields included geological mapping of all  
accessible underground excavations and tunnels (about 36 of which 
total 25 linear kilometres), 3D ore body modelling of the mapped 
information, sampling and analysis of mine face samples and satellite 
imagery studies. International geological and mining consultants 
ACA Howe were engaged to provide a technical report and conduct 
associated due diligence matters. The total consideration payable under 
the share purchase agreement is US$15 million as follows: a first 
tranche of US$7 .5 million on completion of the share purchase and 
transfer of licence of which US$5 million is payable in cash and 
US$2.5 million is payable in Gemfields’ shares with a three year 
lock-in period); a second tranche of US$2.5 million on the first 
anniversary of completion; a third and fourth tranche of US$2.5 
million each upon attainment of agreed cumulative revenue targets. 
Completion is expected to occur by first quarter of calendar 
year 2016.
The second project relates to selected exploration prospects held by 
ISAM Europa S.L. via the acquisition of 75% and 70% interests 
in two Colombian companies holding rights in respect of mining 
licence applications and assigned concession contracts respectively.
The second project comprises a number of new licence applications 
and assignments to existing concession contracts administered by 
the Colombian Mining Agency. The assignees of, and the applicants 
for, the mining licences are a number of Colombian companies 
(‘ProjectCos’) indirectly controlled by ISAM Europa S.L. Gemfields 
is acquiring on completion indirect 75% and 70% interests in two 
holding companies which house the assorted ProjectCos. The total 
package of mining licence applications and assigned concession 
contracts cover approximately 20,000 hectares in the Boyacá and 
other regions, and comprise mostly greenfield sites although small 
scale mining has occurred in some of the licence areas. Eight of 
the applications and assignments have been approved and issued. 
The remaining assignments and applications are being reviewed by 
the Colombian Mining Agency. The total consideration payable by 
Gemfields under the share purchase agreement is US$7 .5 million 
as follows: a first tranche of US$450,000 paid on completion of 
the share acquisition; a second tranche payable upon the granting 
of certain licence applications and/or the assignment of certain 
concession contracts; a third tranche payable when bulk sampling 
commences on certain licence areas; a fourth tranche payable on the 
commencement of commercial mining; and a fifth and sixth tranche 
(which comprise more than 50% of the total consideration payable) 
upon attainment of agreed cumulative revenue targets.
Fabergé
Secret Garden 
earrings 40 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
The Company has enhanced its understanding and focus of what needs to be achieved 
to get to the next level of delivery. Internal approaches have been established, though 
this continues to be a work in progress taking into account available resources. 
The Company has committed to a budget of at least 1% of gross sales at each  
operating mine to fund local social and environmental projects and has created  
a centralised budget in order to pursue specific sustainability and health and safety 
projects pertaining to mining operation performance improvements.
Our approach and ambition
Our approach remains unchanged from 2014. The primary areas of 
focus are laid out clearly and transparently on the Company’s website 
and are principally about addressing the material sustainability issues 
at our operations; societal, environmental, health and safety, human 
rights but also, and crucially, the integrity of our product through 
the supply chain.
The scale of our ambition is not only to address what is immediately 
within our control, but also to act as the key industry voice on matters 
that can influence the wider sector. We believe that increasing 
transparency in how the coloured gemstone sector operates will 
ultimately benefit everyone, and to that end we believe that taking 
a leading role in shaping how the sector responds to standards and 
systems of governance is important.
Governance
We receive both internal and external feedback from a variety 
of stakeholders. In developing and managing our strategy we are 
pursuing those issues that are deemed most material to the business 
and this has fed into the Group-wide risk management system. 
We continue to strengthen the Gemfields’ sustainability team whose 
responsibility is to implement improvement programmes to meet 
internal expectations and policies. Faced with a challenge of finding 
suitable local labour, we are working to identify and develop 
appropriate local labour.
We are improving our centralised reporting of key performance 
indicators. We are considering data capture systems to make it easier 
for the operations to report key data to senior management and 
the Board.
Review of ongoing activities and partnerships
Kagem, Zambia
All legacy projects continue to receive small financial support for 
maintenance purposes. There has however been a focus this year 
on making two major improvements. Firstly the Chapula school 
in Lufwanyama District is being redeveloped to become a secondary 
school providing sufficient space for over 700 children up to grade 12. 
This is critically important because the existing school roll was 
being housed in school buildings with a capacity of half the school 
population. In addition, Kagem is also investing in the upgrade  
of the Nkana health centre which provides crucial services to a 
population of nearly 4,000. Currently the capacity of the health 
centre is insufficient and the upgrade will see the centre be extended 
to a four-ward ‘mini-hospital’ status. The new hospital will include 
isolation, maternity, children, male and female wards. Kagem is also 
constructing staff quarters to accommodate a resident doctor and 
nurses in order to attract qualified labour.
Post the financial year end, a number of environmental surveys with 
the support of technical consultants have been carried out. These 
surveys have led to the environmental and social assessment of the 
mine site. Environmental consultants have also been hired to take 
Kagem through a full Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) 
process, which to date only included Chama pit but is now being 
extended to cover the bulk sampling operations in Libwente and 
Fibolele. Finally, Kagem will be starting the process of implementing 
the ISO14001 environmental management system as part of its 
on-going improvement process.
In May 2015, Kagem was visited by Hon. Christopher Yaluma, 
Minister of Mines, Energy & Water Development to celebrate 
Kagem’s 3.5 million injury free shifts.
Kariba, Zambia
There has been little significant change in Kariba’s social or 
environmental management since 2014. However, going into the 
new financial year, Kariba intends to switch a significant portion of 
its current generation of electricity from diesel to solar. It is expected 
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 41 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
School children enjoy playtime at the Gemfields-funded school 
in Chapula.
that by the end of the year Kariba’s operations will be largely powered 
by a 2.5MW solar array which will be built and financed by a third 
party but sited on our concession. The local community will also 
benefit from the solar energy generated.
As reported in 2014, Kariba also intends to finance the building of 
a coal briquette manufacturing unit, however, this project has been 
delayed, owing to the lack of a passable road from the coal mines. 
Kariba mine is also considering the construction of a new school as 
currently nearly 300 school-aged children are unable to attend school 
due to lack of local infrastructure.
Montepuez, Mozambique
In March 201 5, with the support of specialist consultants, Montepuez 
conducted a baseline study into the artisanal and small scale mining 
situation at the mine to better understand the practical strategic options 
for managing the impacts from and to this important stakeholder 
group. This study involved a two-week field trip, meetings with local 
stakeholders, illegal miners and traders, religious and youth leaders and 
other community members. The work is a key part of the mine plan 
and will support the ongoing work around the community as well as 
feed into broader management and asset protection strategies.
The focus on immediate local community projects has been similarly 
quite modest in nature during the current financial year. These projects 
have largely been philanthropic in nature and include the following: 
renovation of the existing school building, installation of two new 
boreholes, provision of livestock and a planned electrification of the 
nearest village. Montepuez will continue to develop a more robust 
strategy to community engagement and investment. 
There may be a requirement to carry out a resettlement of villagers 
from the concession to gain access to economically viable parts of 
the mine. Presently Montepuez is at the stage of identifying possible 
relocation sites with local government having spent the year carrying 
out local census and data collection. This process is expected to 
conclude by the end of the calendar year with the approval of the 
resettlement action plan if so required.
Cause-related initiatives
Gemfields has a history of developing partnerships that benefit 
relevant charities and Non-Governmental Organisations (“NGO”) 
and that also celebrate coloured gemstones. By highlighting particular 
causes and the product itself, we hope to create a link between the key 
issues that are of particular concern in the developing world. During 
the current financial year, we undertook a number of cause-related 
initiatives. These included:
• The 100 Good Deeds bracelet in which we partnered with leading 
US HIV campaigner and jewellery designer Mary Fisher to create 
an amethyst bracelet – the proceeds of which were donated to 
the Abataka Foundation, a non-profit organisation that provides 
economic and educational opportunities otherwise unavailable to 
women and girls across the globe.
• A partnership with US jeweller Marina B to create an emerald 
‘motherhood’ ring, designed in collaboration with Mila Kunis. 
All profits from sales have been donated to the Gemfields’ 
established Nkana Health Centre, which is very close to 
Gemfields’ Kagem emerald mine in Zambia. This initiative has 
contributed to the development of a new maternity wing for the 
health centre.
• A celebratory donation to Game Reserves United (“GRU”), an 
anti-poaching organisation dedicated to the protection of rhino 
in the northern Kruger Park, South Africa. On discovery of a 
40.23 carat ‘Rhino’ ruby which was subsequently sold at auction, 
Gemfields made a donation to support the GRU aircraft’s flying 
costs for 2015.
• Financial support for the Niassa Reserve’s Carnivore Project in 
Mozambique following the discovery of an exceptional matching 
pair of rubies totalling 45 carats named the ‘Eyes of the Dragon’. 
Niassa Carnivore Project is a small research, conservation and 
education NGO operating in Mozambique’s Niassa reserve in 
Cabo Delgado, very close to Gemfields’ Montepuez ruby mine.
• Sponsorship of Women for Women International’s ‘She Inspires 
Art’ event in London including a donation to the event’s charity 
auction of a unique ‘Lale Devri’ ring (Tulip period) created by 
master jeweller Sevan Bickaci with Mozambican rubies. Women 
for Women is a small NGO that works with marginalised women 
in countries of conflict by offering support, tools and access to 
skills to help them move from crisis and poverty to self-sufficiency.
Ian Harebottle / Chief Executive Officer
6 October 2015 42 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The Company recognises that risk is intrinsic to the nature of 
our operations. This means that understanding our principal 
risks and ensuring we have sufficient controls in place is critical 
to our continued growth and success. The Board recognises the 
importance of having a robust process for risk management and have 
implemented a comprehensive risk management framework to enable 
the Company to identify, monitor and mitigate its principal risks.
We are exposed to a variety of risks that can have operational, 
reputational or financial impacts and acknowledge the importance 
of effective responses to these risks. We are undertaking the 
development of a culture of risk awareness through embedding 
our risk process and ensuring that we have the right level of risk 
governance to provide oversight.
Governance
The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of risk across 
the Company in order to pursue growth opportunities and increase 
shareholder value. The Board will provide oversight of the risk 
management framework, define risk appetite and monitor the 
strategic risks. The Audit and Risk Committee will support the 
Board with the discharge of its responsibilities and has delegated 
day-to-day risk management to the executive management.
The Audit and Risk Committee will support the Board by providing 
an independent review of the adequacy and effectiveness of risk 
management and internal control. We recently outsourced our internal 
audit function who will provide assurance to executive management 
and the Audit and Risk Committee on the effectiveness of the risk 
management framework and its application across the Group.
Executive management are responsible for ensuring that the business 
implements the risk management framework, defining and managing 
the strategic risks, and to provide challenge on operational risks and 
controls. Executive management will also review and challenge risks 
in relation to key investment decisions. This approach will ensure that 
the process provides a consolidated view of risk across the Group such 
that focus can be placed on the principal risks.
The Company’s Risk Management Framework Diagram
Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
Principal risk
Operational risk
Kariba
Risk management
• Consolidate
• Challenge
• Analyse
• Escalate
• Report
Gemfields plc Board
• Quarterly strategic and consolidated operational 
risk review
Audit & risk committee
• Annual business and operational risk review
• Bi-annual effectiveness
Executive team
• Strategic risk profile
• Escalated risks
• Action progress
• Operational deep dive
(one of the above on a monthly basis)
Operating divisions
• Monthly reporting as required
• Quarterly feed to the plc Board
reporting
New projects Kagem Fabergé Montepuez
Risk capture
Ongoing 
monitoring  
and challenge
Develop and 
implement risk 
mitigation
Executive management
strategic risk 
identification
Develop and 
implement risk 
mitigation
Executive management
strategic risk 
identification
Top-down process
Bottom-up process 43 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Principal Risks and Uncertainties
To support executive management, we have established a risk 
management function to provide challenge, analysis, consolidation, 
escalation and reporting as required. They will also provide advice 
and guidance on the application of risk management throughout the 
business and operations to continue to develop a risk aware culture.
Risk management 
Our risk management framework has been developed and 
implemented over the last year with a formal process for the 
identification, assessment, mitigation, reporting, monitoring and 
review now in place. We will continue to embed this process whilst 
developing a risk management culture to increase awareness 
throughout the business.
During the current financial year, we completed a full exercise 
at each of our operations and within the business to develop an 
aggregated view of risk from the top-down and bottom-up. The 
Board and executives met on a variety of occasions to discuss the 
operational and strategic risks to ensure that we had clarity over the 
principal risks and that we had adequate controls in place to mitigate 
these where appropriate.
We have recognised the need to continue to build on our risk 
management framework through the development of clear risk 
governance and oversight to encourage the ownership and 
accountability for risk management. We are aware of the changes 
in October 2014 to the UK Corporate Governance Code and where 
this should apply, to a well governed business, we will work towards 
developing our risk management against these requirements 
where practical.
The priorities for risk management for the next financial year will be to:
• Continue to embed the risk management framework encouraging 
ownership and accountability throughout the business;
• Define our risk appetite against the principal risks to allow 
for informed decision making against our strategic priorities;
• Develop a ‘Three Lines of Defence’ approach to assurance through 
the business, management (supported by the risk function) 
and audit.
We recognise that inherent to the operations the Company undertakes, there are a number of external risk factors that we need to accept and mitigate, as appropriate. Further to these are the operational 
risks over which we will have greater control and understanding of which is reflected in the risk profile for Gemfields.
Rare
Very high Very low Impact
Likelihood Almost certain
a
 Political, legal and regulatory
b
 Commodity pricing and market demand
c
 Community relations
d
 Financial
e
 Reputation and brand
f
 Growth
g
 Geology and mining operations
h
 Health, safety and environment
i
 Fabergé
j
 Security
The arrows show the trajectory of the risk 
moving from inherent to residual severity.
i c
f e
a
g h
d
b
j 44 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Principal Risks and Uncertainties
External risks
a – Political, Legal and Regulatory
Potential change in the geopolitical conditions within the countries 
of operation including legislative and regulatory change
Mitigation
The Group’s mining operations are predominantly based in 
Zambia and Mozambique. Emerging markets such as these are 
generally subject to greater risk and may be affected by political 
instability or legislative changes. These may result in changes in 
legal requirements, mineral royalty rates, taxation policies or 
restrictions on the export of currency or gemstones, and which 
may have a material adverse impact on the Group’s operations or 
future development.
 
Political instability may also result in civil unrest, labour disputes 
or the withdrawal or variation of existing agreements, mining 
licences and permits. Any of these threats may adversely affect 
the Group’s operations.
The Gemfields team is experienced in operating in Africa. 
The Group encourages active and open engagement and dialogue 
with the relevant government bodies and ministries. The Group’s 
relationships with the various governments of the countries where 
it operates are actively managed by the Group’s Executive Directors 
and Senior Management.
The Group reviews its commercial arrangements and 
regulatory requirements and implements internal controls, 
policies and procedures.
b – Commodity Pricing and Market Demand
Uncertainty over the price and market for coloured gemstones
Mitigation
During times of economic uncertainty or hardship the demand for 
gemstones may fall. The economic climate may also result in buyers 
defaulting on payments. Reduced auction sales as a result of an 
economic downturn may have an adverse effect on the profitability 
and cash flow of the business. 
 
The gemstone supply chain is fragmented and characterised by 
the presence of many small businesses and agents. The risk thereby 
arises that certain businesses in the supply chain may operate in 
a manner that does not meet our own standards of responsible 
business practice. 
 
This represents a risk to revenue because customers and consumers 
may not wish to buy gemstones if they have concerns about the 
supply chain. 
The Group undertakes extensive budgeting, forecasting and 
monitors the market to ensure we can meet the demand as required.
The Group maintains a considerable volume of stock to 
continuously ensure customer demands are met.
The Group invests in marketing and advertising to promote the 
coloured gemstones industry.
We work with upstream suppliers and buyers on chains of custody 
and certification, including factory visits and information disclosure 
to provide greater transparency across the market.
c – Community Relations
Social and community unrest from a lack of positive interaction & 
engagement with the local community and workers
Mitigation
Mining requires the acceptance and support of a wide range of local 
community stakeholders. Failure to share with local communities the 
benefits of our operation, such as provision of jobs, local procurement 
or community outreach activities, may cause delays or disruptions to 
our operations and may undermine our social licence to operate.
Strengthening community teams at each operation, supported by 
expert consultants to ensure best practice.
Developing and implementing community outreach programmes 
and projects and proactive engagement with local stakeholders. 
Proactive management and engagement with local stakeholders 
regarding resettlements within our concessions.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 45 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Operational risks
d – Financial
Availability of working capital, cash flow management and long term 
financial planning
Mitigation
The Group has significant capital expenditure (“capex”) plans over 
the next years. The requisite funding is intended to be sourced from 
operating cash flows and financing facilities. A lack of adequate 
cash flows or funding could delay development and growth.
The Group has a strong balance sheet with sufficient headroom to 
raise further financing should the need arise. Cash flow planning 
and review is carried out continually to ensure both capex and 
operational requirements are adequately financed.
e – Reputation and Brand
Impact on our reputation due to an incident which could negatively 
affect our brand 
Mitigation
The Group has a distinct brand identity built on its role as a 
champion of coloured gemstones and as a responsible mining 
company. As the Group rapidly expands its operations into new 
countries and new markets it must uphold that brand identity by 
ensuring that it continues to play a leadership role in the sector as 
well as maintaining credibility regarding its responsible mining 
claims. Any incident that undermines the brand may result in the 
loss of trust in the wider coloured gemstone and upstream industry.
The Group will continue to take a proactive approach to marketing 
and public relations by furthering positive publicity in the countries 
of operation. The Group is strengthening local corporate affairs 
teams and briefs local PR firms regarding media relations.
The Group continues to develop its sustainability strategy and is 
putting in place a number of measures to address health, safety, 
environment and community issues as well as working with 
upstream partners on transparency initiatives.
f – Growth
Lack of adequate capacity and resources required to develop the 
business and drive delivery of new projects
Mitigation
We are reliant upon key individuals across the business to make 
decisions and manage our key projects across the business. As we 
have a lean management structure we recognise the potential of 
inefficient use of management time and resource.
We are expanding our operations and creating growth 
opportunities for our people. There is an ongoing mandate to invest 
in the training of our people including encouraging knowledge 
transfer for key positions and projects.
We are committed to continual development of our people and 
ensuring that we recruit experienced individuals from the market 
to continue to drive our growth. 46 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Operational risks
g – Geology and Mining Operations
Unpredictable geology associated with locating the quantity and 
quality of coloured gemstones required and implementing 
mechanised mining in the coloured gemstone sector
Mitigation
Due to the unpredictable nature of gemstone geology there is no 
assurance that the Group’s exploration and development activities 
will be successful, or that expenditures will be fully recovered and 
depleted ore reserves replaced. 
There is a risk that exploration activities may not identify viable 
mineral resources or that the Group may fail to identify attractive 
acquisition or investment opportunities.
Due to the relative infancy of mechanised mining in the coloured 
gemstone sector we are continually developing our tools and 
techniques to ensure we can meet our production targets. 
The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, 
both from its internal portfolio and external opportunities, to 
maximise the growth profile of the Group. 
The Group seeks to balance this risk by building a portfolio of 
projects and licence areas that carry a range of differing technical 
and commercial risks, and keeping under careful review the 
amount invested in any one project.
The Group retains historical data on mining to increase 
confidence levels in production forecast and to facilitate 
continuous exploration.
Employment of highly qualified geologists and mine engineers at 
each site and undertaking succession planning to secure and retain 
experienced local employees.
h – Health, Safety and Environment (“HSE”)
A major safety incident arises involving a member of the public or 
Gemfields staff or potential non-compliance with environmental 
obligations and legislation required in each area of operation
Mitigation
HSE risks are inherent to the mining industry. Failure to maintain 
adequate health and safety standards may result in a significant 
incident or deterioration in safety performance. This may result 
in loss of life, loss of time or disruption to the mining operations. 
Mining is an environmentally disruptive process for the majority 
of a mine’s lifecycle. Consideration of the impact of mining is 
therefore important. Breaches can damage reputation and 
impact revenue.
The Group continually reviews and improves the broader HSE and 
sustainability risks and strategy. The HSE Committee guides this 
process and the associated strategy.
Strengthening local HSE teams, supported by expert consultants to 
ensure compliance and best practice.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 47 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Operational risks
i – Fabergé
Ensuring that the business can deliver the required sales growth 
and increase demand within the market
Mitigation
The Fabergé distribution model presently relies on a combination of 
online sales, directly operated boutiques in Geneva, London and 
New York, a concession in Harrods (London), international client 
events and a network of independent multi-brand retailers. Failure 
of the distribution model either wholly or partially would have a 
material adverse impact on the Group.
During the financial year, Fabergé developed a new range of 
products seeking to attract retail and wholesale clients from 
different countries and expand its presence.
The Group continues to monitor the distribution model and the 
associated agreements in order to provide flexibility and react to 
market trends.
j – Security
Failure to have the correct security procedures to protect the people, 
product, and operations
Mitigation
Theft from both internal collusion and illegal mining, is an inherent 
risk factor in the gemstone industry.
This risk is significant, particularly at the Montepuez ruby mine. 
Due to its size, it cannot be completely fenced off; hence artisanal 
miners (“ASM”) frequently enter the licence area. ASMs operate 
without licences and extract gemstones illegally which would 
otherwise be retrieved and sold by the Group. The loss of gemstones 
from the licence area impacts the profitability of the Group.
ASMs also present additional risks including significant and 
unmitigated environmental impact, social issues, criminality 
associated with gangs or syndicates, and the threat of violence 
against our staff. Each of these risks can materially impact the 
operation of a mine.
Security measures and systems are constantly reviewed and revised 
in order to minimise the risk.
The Group works with local authorities, communities and security 
and police forces in seeking to protect the Group’s employees, 
equipment and mining assets.
We utilise a multi-layered security approach across our operations 
with a mix of internal and external providers working with the local 
police and security forces in each geography. 48 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance
The Board of Directors is  
committed to adhering to the  
principles of good corporate  
governance, integrity and business  
ethics for all its activities 49 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Children from the 
Gemfields-funded 
school in the village of 
Chapula, Zambia 50 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Board of Directors
Board of Directors
Graham Mascall, 69
Chairman
Ian Harebottle, 52
Chief Executive Officer
Devidas Shetty, 37
Chief Operating Officer
Sean Gilbertson, 43
Executive Director
Clive Newall, 65
Independent Non-Executive Director
Finn Behnken, 43
Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of appointment
29 November 2004
Date of appointment
11 February 2009
Date of appointment
1 January 2010
Date of appointment
13 May 2008
Date of appointment
19 April 2005
Date of appointment
13 May 2008
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
and a member of the Audit and Risk, 
Remuneration, and Health, Safety, 
Environmental and Community 
Committees.
Committee membership
None 
Committee membership
None 
Committee membership
None 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Remuneration, and 
Health, Safety, Environmental and 
Community Committees, and a member  
of the Audit and Risk, and Nominations 
Committees. 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration, Nominations, and Health, 
Safety, Environmental and Community 
Committees. 
Skills and experience
Graham graduated as a mining engineer 
in 1969 from the Camborne School of 
Mines and gained a Master of Engineering 
in Mineral Economics from McGill 
University, Montreal, in 1972. Since then, 
his experience has spanned both mining 
and mining finance. He held senior 
positions at Barclays Bank, Outokumpu 
Metals & Resources and Morgan Grenfell 
before joining Billiton plc as head of M&A 
in 1997. Graham has also been CEO of two 
AIM listing mining development companies 
and a Non-Executive Director of several 
other AIM, TSX and NYSE listed 
mining companies.
Skills and experience
Ian is a veteran of the coloured gemstone 
industry. He has been instrumental in 
pioneering many of the coloured gemstone 
industry’s most innovative strategies, and 
has extensive operational experience in 
mining and marketing. Ian graduated 
from the Witwatersrand technical college 
in 1985 and holds a Graduate Diploma 
in Management from Henley. Prior to 
becoming actively involved in the coloured 
gemstone industry, Ian ran a highly 
successful independent consultancy firm 
specialising in assisting large organisations 
cope with the impact of sudden change 
within their operating environment. His 
clients included a number of South Africa’s 
largest mining organisations, various banks 
and many of the country’s public utilities.
Skills and experience
Devidas joined Gemfields as Chief 
Financial Officer on 1 January 2010 and 
was promoted to Chief Operating Officer 
in September 2012. He is a Chartered 
Accountant with experience in start-ups, 
mergers and acquisitions, business 
turnaround, strategic planning, treasury, 
tax and financial reporting. Prior to joining 
Gemfields, Devidas worked with an 
Indian conglomerate and private equity 
firm in London.
Skills and experience
Sean Gilbertson graduated as a mining 
engineer from the University of the 
Witwatersrand in South Africa in 1994, 
having spent time in the country’s deep-
level gold and platinum mines. From 1995 
he worked for Deutsche Bank AG and 
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in Frankfurt 
and London specialising in project finance. 
He co-founded globalCOAL in 1998 and 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 
2001 when the business was acquired by 
industry players including, inter alia, Anglo 
American plc, BHP-Billiton Ltd, Glencore 
International AG and Rio Tinto plc. He 
joined the office of Brian Gilbertson in late 
2003, working on a variety of natural 
resource projects and culminating in the 
establishment in 2005 of Pallinghurst 
Advisors LLP.
Skills and experience
Clive was previously a Director of a number 
of junior mining companies, including 
Anvil Mining Ltd and Kensington 
Resources Ltd. Earlier in his career, he held 
senior management positions with Amax 
Exploration Inc and the Robertson Group. 
Clive graduated from the Royal School of 
Mines in 1971 and has an MBA from the 
Scottish Business School.
Skills and experience
Finn specialised in mining finance and 
spent ten years with South Africa’s Nedbank 
Ltd, where he served as a Non-Executive 
Director to some of the bank’s mining 
investments. In 2006, he moved to London 
to develop Nedbank’s international 
business. Finn joined Pallinghurst Advisors 
LLP in October 2007 and was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director of Gemfields 
and Tshipi é Ntle Manganese Mining 
(Pty) Limited (Tshipi) in 2008. In 2011, he 
commenced full time employment as Chief 
Executive Officer of Tshipi and oversaw 
the construction of a new US$200 million 
manganese mine in South Africa. With 
Tshipi achieving stable production, he 
stepped down from Tshipi in order to 
explore other interests in the resources 
sector. Finn graduated as a mining engineer 
from the University of the Witwatersrand, 
South Africa in 1994, having worked in coal 
and gold mining.
External appointments
None
External appointments
None
External appointments
None
External appointments
Sean is a partner in Pallinghurst Advisors 
LLP and a director of certain Pallinghurst 
portfolio companies.
External appointments
Clive is Founder and President of First 
Quantum Minerals Ltd. He is also a 
Director of Baker Steel Resource Trust Ltd.
External appointments
Finn is presently representing Auramet 
Trading LLC in Africa. Auramet is a United 
States precious metal merchant. 51 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Board of Directors
Graham Mascall, 69
Chairman
Ian Harebottle, 52
Chief Executive Officer
Devidas Shetty, 37
Chief Operating Officer
Sean Gilbertson, 43
Executive Director
Clive Newall, 65
Independent Non-Executive Director
Finn Behnken, 43
Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of appointment
29 November 2004
Date of appointment
11 February 2009
Date of appointment
1 January 2010
Date of appointment
13 May 2008
Date of appointment
19 April 2005
Date of appointment
13 May 2008
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
and a member of the Audit and Risk, 
Remuneration, and Health, Safety, 
Environmental and Community 
Committees.
Committee membership
None 
Committee membership
None 
Committee membership
None 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Remuneration, and 
Health, Safety, Environmental and 
Community Committees, and a member  
of the Audit and Risk, and Nominations 
Committees. 
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration, Nominations, and Health, 
Safety, Environmental and Community 
Committees. 
Skills and experience
Graham graduated as a mining engineer 
in 1969 from the Camborne School of 
Mines and gained a Master of Engineering 
in Mineral Economics from McGill 
University, Montreal, in 1972. Since then, 
his experience has spanned both mining 
and mining finance. He held senior 
positions at Barclays Bank, Outokumpu 
Metals & Resources and Morgan Grenfell 
before joining Billiton plc as head of M&A 
in 1997. Graham has also been CEO of two 
AIM listing mining development companies 
and a Non-Executive Director of several 
other AIM, TSX and NYSE listed 
mining companies.
Skills and experience
Ian is a veteran of the coloured gemstone 
industry. He has been instrumental in 
pioneering many of the coloured gemstone 
industry’s most innovative strategies, and 
has extensive operational experience in 
mining and marketing. Ian graduated 
from the Witwatersrand technical college 
in 1985 and holds a Graduate Diploma 
in Management from Henley. Prior to 
becoming actively involved in the coloured 
gemstone industry, Ian ran a highly 
successful independent consultancy firm 
specialising in assisting large organisations 
cope with the impact of sudden change 
within their operating environment. His 
clients included a number of South Africa’s 
largest mining organisations, various banks 
and many of the country’s public utilities.
Skills and experience
Devidas joined Gemfields as Chief 
Financial Officer on 1 January 2010 and 
was promoted to Chief Operating Officer 
in September 2012. He is a Chartered 
Accountant with experience in start-ups, 
mergers and acquisitions, business 
turnaround, strategic planning, treasury, 
tax and financial reporting. Prior to joining 
Gemfields, Devidas worked with an 
Indian conglomerate and private equity 
firm in London.
Skills and experience
Sean Gilbertson graduated as a mining 
engineer from the University of the 
Witwatersrand in South Africa in 1994, 
having spent time in the country’s deep-
level gold and platinum mines. From 1995 
he worked for Deutsche Bank AG and 
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in Frankfurt 
and London specialising in project finance. 
He co-founded globalCOAL in 1998 and 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 
2001 when the business was acquired by 
industry players including, inter alia, Anglo 
American plc, BHP-Billiton Ltd, Glencore 
International AG and Rio Tinto plc. He 
joined the office of Brian Gilbertson in late 
2003, working on a variety of natural 
resource projects and culminating in the 
establishment in 2005 of Pallinghurst 
Advisors LLP.
Skills and experience
Clive was previously a Director of a number 
of junior mining companies, including 
Anvil Mining Ltd and Kensington 
Resources Ltd. Earlier in his career, he held 
senior management positions with Amax 
Exploration Inc and the Robertson Group. 
Clive graduated from the Royal School of 
Mines in 1971 and has an MBA from the 
Scottish Business School.
Skills and experience
Finn specialised in mining finance and 
spent ten years with South Africa’s Nedbank 
Ltd, where he served as a Non-Executive 
Director to some of the bank’s mining 
investments. In 2006, he moved to London 
to develop Nedbank’s international 
business. Finn joined Pallinghurst Advisors 
LLP in October 2007 and was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director of Gemfields 
and Tshipi é Ntle Manganese Mining 
(Pty) Limited (Tshipi) in 2008. In 2011, he 
commenced full time employment as Chief 
Executive Officer of Tshipi and oversaw 
the construction of a new US$200 million 
manganese mine in South Africa. With 
Tshipi achieving stable production, he 
stepped down from Tshipi in order to 
explore other interests in the resources 
sector. Finn graduated as a mining engineer 
from the University of the Witwatersrand, 
South Africa in 1994, having worked in coal 
and gold mining.
External appointments
None
External appointments
None
External appointments
None
External appointments
Sean is a partner in Pallinghurst Advisors 
LLP and a director of certain Pallinghurst 
portfolio companies.
External appointments
Clive is Founder and President of First 
Quantum Minerals Ltd. He is also a 
Director of Baker Steel Resource Trust Ltd.
External appointments
Finn is presently representing Auramet 
Trading LLC in Africa. Auramet is a United 
States precious metal merchant. 52 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Senior Management
Janet Boyce
Chief Financial Officer 
CV Suresh 
Director of Operations – Africa
Kartikeya Parikshya 
Director of New Projects
Anna Haber 
Director of Global Marketing
Gabriella Harvey 
Director of Cut and Polished Sales
Janet joined Gemfields as Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary in August 
2013. Janet has the overall responsibility 
for the Company’s financial management 
and reporting, budgeting and planning, 
treasury, taxation, compliance and controls, 
and managing external stakeholders 
relations. Prior to joining Gemfields, Janet 
worked for Eurasian Natural Resources 
Corporation, PricewaterhouseCoopers and 
Ernst & Young. Janet is a certified public 
accountant.
CV is a mining engineer from the Indian 
Institute of Technology, a premier institute 
of India. In a career spanning 32 years,  
he has developed expertise in all areas of 
operations in mining and has worked with  
a number of large mining companies in 
India. He was previously the Director of 
Operations at Kagem where he played an 
important role in its successful turn-around 
strategy. In September 2015, CV was 
appointed Director of Operations – Africa 
and is now responsible for all of the Group’s 
operating mines in Africa.
Kartikeya has a post graduate degree in Applied 
Geology from Indian Institute of Technology, 
Bombay. In a career spanning over 29 years, he 
worked in various exploration projects in India 
before joining the Group in 2004. He was 
previously working as Head of Planning, 
Production and Exploration in Kagem, before 
moving on to lead the global M & A team in 
2012, overseeing acquisitions and initial project 
set-ups in Mozambique, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia 
and more recently in Colombia. He was 
appointed to the current position in September 
2015 and is responsible for the Group’s 
operations in Asia and South America.
With over 15 years of experience in  
the jewellery and gemstone industry,  
Anna is involved with the creation and 
implementation of Gemfields’ marketing 
and communications strategy, which aims 
to reposition global perceptions of, and 
demand for, coloured gemstones.
With over 20 years of experience, Gabriella 
manages the Group’s global cut and 
polished sales offices. By working closely 
with the established relationships in the 
industry and our auction partners, the cut 
and polished division are able to supply 
gemstones to jewellers and luxury brands 
across the world.
Adrian Banks 
Product and Sales Director
Ashim Roy 
General Manager – Montepuez Ruby Mining 
Limitada
Dibya J. Baral
General Manager – Kagem Mining Limited
Yogesh Khatoria 
Director/Head of Operations, India
Cyrille Djanjoff 
Head of Fine Gemstones/ 
Managing Director of Kariba Minerals Limited
Adrian oversees both the grading and sales 
of rough emeralds and rubies, from both 
mined and traded sources. He also manages 
the auction schedule, which is the current 
sales method being adopted by the Group, 
and follows market dynamics in order to 
make recommendations to the Board, 
ensuring optimal sales and prices.
Ashim is a professional geologist with over 
27 years of experience in various projects 
including Kagem Mine in Zambia as Head 
of Planning, Production and Geology. 
Ashim is responsible for the planning, 
implementation and monitoring of all 
operations at Montepuez. He oversees the 
budgeting, planning and execution of 
Montepuez activities.
Dibya is a professional geologist with 
over 19 years of experience in the mining 
industry specialising in multi-commodity 
exploration and development in diverse 
geological settings. Dibya is responsible for 
budgeting, planning and monitoring all 
operations at Kagem. He liaises with the 
government, local press and handles 
Gemfields’ sustainability projects.
With over 23 years of experience in the 
coloured gemstone industry, specifically in 
emerald, ruby, sapphire and semiprecious, 
Yogesh has been involved in the 
development of Gemfields’ rough emerald 
and ruby grading systems and rough 
gemstone sales. He has also developed and 
manages the rough traded emerald auctions. 
Yogesh manages the Indian operations.
With over 25 years of experience in the 
gemstone industry, both trade and mining, 
Cyrille heads up Gemfields’ fine gemstones 
division with amethyst and tourmalines  
in its portfolio. In addition to this, Cyrille 
also oversees operations at Kariba Minerals, 
an amethyst mine in Zambia, in which 
Gemfields holds a 50% interest. Cyrille is a 
certified gemologist from the ING, Paris.
Senior Management 53 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Senior Management
Janet Boyce
Chief Financial Officer 
CV Suresh 
Director of Operations – Africa
Kartikeya Parikshya 
Director of New Projects
Anna Haber 
Director of Global Marketing
Gabriella Harvey 
Director of Cut and Polished Sales
Janet joined Gemfields as Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary in August 
2013. Janet has the overall responsibility 
for the Company’s financial management 
and reporting, budgeting and planning, 
treasury, taxation, compliance and controls, 
and managing external stakeholders 
relations. Prior to joining Gemfields, Janet 
worked for Eurasian Natural Resources 
Corporation, PricewaterhouseCoopers and 
Ernst & Young. Janet is a certified public 
accountant.
CV is a mining engineer from the Indian 
Institute of Technology, a premier institute 
of India. In a career spanning 32 years,  
he has developed expertise in all areas of 
operations in mining and has worked with  
a number of large mining companies in 
India. He was previously the Director of 
Operations at Kagem where he played an 
important role in its successful turn-around 
strategy. In September 2015, CV was 
appointed Director of Operations – Africa 
and is now responsible for all of the Group’s 
operating mines in Africa.
Kartikeya has a post graduate degree in Applied 
Geology from Indian Institute of Technology, 
Bombay. In a career spanning over 29 years, he 
worked in various exploration projects in India 
before joining the Group in 2004. He was 
previously working as Head of Planning, 
Production and Exploration in Kagem, before 
moving on to lead the global M & A team in 
2012, overseeing acquisitions and initial project 
set-ups in Mozambique, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia 
and more recently in Colombia. He was 
appointed to the current position in September 
2015 and is responsible for the Group’s 
operations in Asia and South America.
With over 15 years of experience in  
the jewellery and gemstone industry,  
Anna is involved with the creation and 
implementation of Gemfields’ marketing 
and communications strategy, which aims 
to reposition global perceptions of, and 
demand for, coloured gemstones.
With over 20 years of experience, Gabriella 
manages the Group’s global cut and 
polished sales offices. By working closely 
with the established relationships in the 
industry and our auction partners, the cut 
and polished division are able to supply 
gemstones to jewellers and luxury brands 
across the world.
Adrian Banks 
Product and Sales Director
Ashim Roy 
General Manager – Montepuez Ruby Mining 
Limitada
Dibya J. Baral
General Manager – Kagem Mining Limited
Yogesh Khatoria 
Director/Head of Operations, India
Cyrille Djanjoff 
Head of Fine Gemstones/ 
Managing Director of Kariba Minerals Limited
Adrian oversees both the grading and sales 
of rough emeralds and rubies, from both 
mined and traded sources. He also manages 
the auction schedule, which is the current 
sales method being adopted by the Group, 
and follows market dynamics in order to 
make recommendations to the Board, 
ensuring optimal sales and prices.
Ashim is a professional geologist with over 
27 years of experience in various projects 
including Kagem Mine in Zambia as Head 
of Planning, Production and Geology. 
Ashim is responsible for the planning, 
implementation and monitoring of all 
operations at Montepuez. He oversees the 
budgeting, planning and execution of 
Montepuez activities.
Dibya is a professional geologist with 
over 19 years of experience in the mining 
industry specialising in multi-commodity 
exploration and development in diverse 
geological settings. Dibya is responsible for 
budgeting, planning and monitoring all 
operations at Kagem. He liaises with the 
government, local press and handles 
Gemfields’ sustainability projects.
With over 23 years of experience in the 
coloured gemstone industry, specifically in 
emerald, ruby, sapphire and semiprecious, 
Yogesh has been involved in the 
development of Gemfields’ rough emerald 
and ruby grading systems and rough 
gemstone sales. He has also developed and 
manages the rough traded emerald auctions. 
Yogesh manages the Indian operations.
With over 25 years of experience in the 
gemstone industry, both trade and mining, 
Cyrille heads up Gemfields’ fine gemstones 
division with amethyst and tourmalines  
in its portfolio. In addition to this, Cyrille 
also oversees operations at Kariba Minerals, 
an amethyst mine in Zambia, in which 
Gemfields holds a 50% interest. Cyrille is a 
certified gemologist from the ING, Paris. 54 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2015. 
Business review and results
Gemfields is a leading supplier of responsibly sourced coloured 
gemstones. We specialise in emeralds and amethysts from Zambia 
and rubies from Mozambique.
Our approach has set new benchmarks for environmental, social  
and safety practices – of which we are very proud. Our direct 
involvement in each step of the process is unique, and allows us 
to provide discerning customers the assurance they require over 
the responsible journey their gemstones have taken from mine 
to market.
The Strategic Report on pages 8 through 47 and Corporate 
Governance Statement on pages 50 to 60 respectively are 
incorporated into the Directors’ Report by reference. More detailed 
information about the Group’s businesses, activities and financial 
performance can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 47.
Dividends and dividend policy
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend  
(2014: nil).
Recommendations in respect of dividends will be considered by the 
Board on a regular basis. Consideration will be given to the business’ 
operating requirements and factors deemed by the Board at the 
time. These would typically include cash flow projections, approved 
business plans, distributable reserves, capital projects, potential 
growth opportunities, equipment and infrastructure needs and any 
financing requirements.
The approval of dividends recommended by the Board remains 
subject to the consent of the Company’s shareholders in accordance 
with the Company’s Articles of Association.
Statement of capital
Ordinary shares of £0.01
The Company’s ordinary shares represent 100% of its total issued 
share capital. At an annual general meeting (“AGM”) or general 
meeting of the Company every member present in person or by 
proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which they 
are the holder. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
dividends. On a winding-up or other return of capital, holders are 
entitled to a share in any surplus assets pro rata to the amount paid 
up on their ordinary shares. The ordinary shares are not redeemable 
at the option of either the Company or the holder. There are no 
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
At 30 June 2015, there were 543,646,730 ordinary shares in issue 
(2014: 540,808,209). During the year, 2,838,521 shares were issued. 
Authority to purchase own shares
At the Company’s AGM held on 28 November 2014, shareholders 
approved a resolution to authorise the Company to make one or 
more market purchases of its ordinary shares up to a maximum 
aggregate nominal value of £541,234.88 (representing approximately 
10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at the date 
of the Notice of Meeting). No ordinary shares were purchased 
under this authority during the year. No purchases have been 
made pursuant to this authority and a resolution will be put to 
shareholders to renew this authority for a further year at the 2015 
AGM.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set 
out in the Articles of Association (“Articles”). The Articles may 
only be changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
Voting
Subject to the Articles generally, and to any special rights or 
restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, the 
Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member 
who is present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote 
and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which he/she is 
the holder.
Directors’ Report 55 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Report
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at an AGM or general meeting of the  
Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being 
heard. Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to 
corporate members, by corporate representative. The Articles provide 
a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or 
adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be 
entitled to vote in respect of any ordinary share held by him/her 
either personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to exercise 
any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders’ 
meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him/her to 
the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid. In addition, 
no member shall be entitled to vote if he/she has been served with 
a notice after failing to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under 
the Law.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s financial position and 
cash flow forecasts for the period to the end of October 2016 
and considered any reasonable possible changes in performance of 
the Group. The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate 
facilities for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Financial instruments and risks
The Group makes use of financial instruments in its operations 
as described in note 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Directors 
The names of the Directors who served during the year, together 
with their details, are shown in the Board of Directors section on 
pages 50 and 51.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Ian 
Harebottle and Clive Newall retired and offered themselves for 
re-election at the 2014 AGM. Both Ian Harebottle and Clive Newall 
were re-elected to the Board at the 2014 AGM. Graham Mascall 
and Sean Gilbertson will retire and offer themselves for re-election 
at the 2015 AGM.
Subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006 (the 
“Act”), the Company has arranged appropriate Directors and 
Officers insurance to indemnify the Directors against liability in 
respect of proceedings brought by third parties. Such provisions 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected 
to prepare the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (the “EU”). Under 
Company law, the law stipulates that the Directors must not approve 
the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
The Directors are also required to prepare the Financial Statements 
in accordance with the rules of the London Stock Exchange for 
companies trading securities on the Alternative Investment 
Market (“AIM”).  56 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Report
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the Financial Statements comply with the requirements of the Act. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Website publication
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements are made available on the Company’s website. 
Financial Statements are published on the Company’s website in 
accordance with legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website is the responsibility of the Directors. 
The Directors’ responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity 
of the Financial Statements.
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Company made a number of charitable 
donations to selected parties including World Land Trust, an 
international conservation chartiy, Games Reserve United to 
support the costs of an anti-rhino poaching aircraft and Nanhi 
Kali to support female education in India.
The Company did not make any political donations. For disclosure 
of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
programme see pages 40 and 41.
Post reporting date events
Details of events after the reporting date for the Group are disclosed 
in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for the 
Parent Company in note 18 to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements. An indication for the outlook for the 2016 financial year 
is given in the key performance indicators section on pages 22 and 23.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions for the Group are given in note 
26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for the Parent 
Company in note 15 to the Parent Company Financial Statements. 
Key management personnel compensation disclosures are given in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 65.
Independent auditors
BDO LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office 
and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
 
Disclosure of information to the independent auditors
All of the current Directors have taken all the steps they ought 
reasonably to have taken to make themselves aware of any 
information needed by the Company’s auditors for the purposes 
of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that 
information. The Directors are not aware of any relevant audit 
information of which the auditors are unaware.
By order of the Board
Devidas Shetty / Chief Operating Officer
6 October 2015
Directors’ Report continued 57 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors is committed to adhering to the principles 
of good corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all 
its activities. Under the rules of AIM, the Group is not required to 
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). 
Nevertheless, the Group has identified areas of the Code it considers 
relevant to the current size and nature of its operations. It does not 
seek to comply with all the requirements of the Code. The Board is 
continuing to consider other aspects of the Code for appropriateness 
and these may be introduced when it becomes relevant for the 
Group to do so.
The Board
The Board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the 
Company’s strategy, financial activities and operating performance. 
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to 
the Executive Directors who consult with the Board on all significant 
financial and operational matters.
The Board structure provides demonstrable separation of executive 
responsibility for running the business and responsibility for running 
the Board. This structure ensures there is appropriate accountability to 
the Board and helps safeguard the independence and objectivity of 
the Board.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are fulfilled by 
separate individuals, each with clear division of accountability and 
responsibility. The Chairman is responsible for running the Board 
and the Chief Executive Officer has executive responsibilities for the 
Company’s strategic development, operations and financial results. 
The Chairman meets at least annually with the Non-Executive 
Directors without Executive Directors present.
All Board members receive agendas and comprehensive papers prior 
to each Board meeting. All Directors have access to the services of 
the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and 
regulations are adhered to. Directors may also obtain additional 
information from any manager or employee of the Company and 
there is a procedure for Directors to obtain independent advice 
from external advisers, consultants or any such further professional 
individual at the Company’s expense. The Company maintains 
appropriate liability insurance for the benefit of its Directors 
and Officers.
Gemfields plc and The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. (“PRF”) 
entered into an amended and restated relationship agreement in 
August 2013 which governs the relationship between the Gemfields 
Group and PRF (the “Relationship Agreement”). A key requirement 
of the Relationship Agreement is that at least 50% of the Directors 
serving on the Gemfields’ Board are independent of PRF. A Director 
of the Company is defined as ‘independent’ under the Relationship 
Agreement if they are not also a Director, officer or employee of 
PRF, Pallinghurst Resources Limited (PRF’s parent company) 
or of any other entities affiliated to either PRF or Pallinghurst 
Resources Limited.
The balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors has 
been reviewed by the Nominations Committee and the Board. 
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board are 
approved by the Board, following recommendations from the 
Nominations Committee.
Independence
In line with the Code, the independence of the Non-Executive 
Directors who have served on the Board for over nine years has been 
reviewed. The Board considers Clive Newall and Graham Mascall, 
who have served on the Board for over ten years to be independent. 
These individuals provide extensive experience of mining, corporate 
governance and regulatory matters and continue to challenge 
management and provide valuable contributions to the Board. 
The Board wishes to retain their services because: 
• the Board believes that the skills, general business experience and 
in-depth knowledge of the Company that Clive Newall 
and Graham Mascall bring are essential for continuity; and
• Gemfields is a Company in which historical knowledge and 
personal relationships are important to the successful oversight 
of the business.
The Board is of the view that Clive Newall and Graham Mascall 
remain independent because: 
• their character and the manner in which they perform their role 
clearly demonstrate independent thought and judgement; 
• they ask challenging and objective questions of management and 
request additional information when they feel it is required; and 
• there are no conflicts of interest between any Independent 
Non-Executive Directors and management or the majority 
shareholder. 
  58 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Corporate Governance
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to 
be  independent and are permitted to hold other directorships with 
other companies subject to the Board’s approval. Mr Mascall holds 
shares in the Group but given that his holding is not significant, he 
is considered to remain independent. Individual shareholdings for 
Directors can be seen below. 
Number of shares held by the Directors as at 30 June 2015 directly 
or indirectly: 
Director
Number of 
shares held 
Percentage 
holding
Graham Mascall 150,000 0.028%
Ian Harebottle 200,000 0.037%
Sean Gilbertson 300,000 0.056%
Devidas Shetty nil nil
Clive Newall nil nil
Finn Behnken nil nil
Total 650,000 0.12%
Effectiveness 
Skills and experience
The Board keeps the skills and experience of its members under 
constant review. The Directors believe in the necessity for challenge 
and debate in the boardroom and consider that existing Board 
dynamics and processes encourage honest and open debate with 
Executive Directors.
Director attendance
The Board meets regularly, at a minimum of four times per year.
Attendance by Directors at meetings for which they were eligible 
during the financial year ended 30 June 2015 was as follows:
Director Board
Audit and 
Risk 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Health, Safety, 
Environmental 
and 
Community 
Committee
Graham Mascall 8 3 6 1 2
Ian Harebottle 8 – – – –
Devidas Shetty 6 – – – –
Sean Gilbertson 8 – – – –
Clive Newall 8 3 6 1 2
Finn Behnken 8 3 6 1 2
Corporate Governance continued
Board Committees
The Board has established the following Committees, each with its 
own terms of reference. All Committees of the Board to which 
significant powers, authorities and discretions are delegated, shall 
at all times be made up of at least two Non-Executive Directors. 
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committees have the right to: 
• obtain independent professional advice to assist with the 
execution of its duties, at the Company’s cost, subject to a Board 
approved process being followed; and 
• access the Company’s records, facilities, employees and any other 
resources, within the scope of its responsibilities, as set out in the 
terms of reference.
Audit and Risk Committee
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are Graham 
Mascall, Clive Newall and Finn Behnken, who chairs the 
Committee. The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for 
assuring accountability and effective corporate governance within 
the Company. It provides recommendations to the Board on matters 
concerning the Company’s accounting policies, financial, risk and 
compliance control, record-keeping and reporting.
The Audit and Risk Committee’s main responsibilities include  
the following:
• monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company 
including the annual and interim financial statements;
• review and challenge, where necessary, the accounting principles, 
policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the financial 
statements;
• review the scope and the results of the audit with the external 
auditors;
• review the independence and effectiveness of the external 
auditors and make recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment/dismissal of the external auditors and terms of 
reference and remuneration;
• oversee the compliance with applicable laws and regulations; 
• review and recommend to the Board for approval of risk 
management policies and procedures; and
• review and monitor the effectiveness and activities of the internal 
audit function. 59 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Corporate Governance
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Graham 
Mascall, Finn Behnken and Clive Newall, who chairs the 
Committee. Its principal responsibility is to determine and review 
the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the framework and 
broad policy for the remuneration of the executive management. 
Within the terms of the agreed remuneration policy, it determines 
the individual remuneration package of executive management 
including incentive payments and long-term performance incentive 
arrangements. It also arranges performance evaluations for the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer and reports the results of these evaluations to the Board. 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for 
the Chairman and the Executive Directors or, where required by 
the Articles of Association, the shareholders.
Nominations Committee
The members of the Nominations Committee are Clive Newall, 
Finn Behnken and Graham Mascall, who chairs the Committee. 
The Chairman of the Board shall not chair the Nominations 
Committee when it is dealing with the succession of the 
Chairmanship of the Board. The Nominations Committee 
is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and 
composition (including skills, knowledge and experience) 
required of the Board compared to its current position and to 
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.  
The Nominations Committee is responsible for identifying and 
nominating for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies 
as and when they arise and makes recommendations to the Board 
concerning succession planning for both Executive and Non-
Executive Directors. In addition, the Committee keeps under 
regular review any authorisations granted by the Board in 
connection with a Director’s conflict of interest.
Health, Safety, Environmental and Community Committee 
The members of the Health, Safety, Environmental and Community 
Committee are Finn Behnken, Graham Mascall and Clive Newall, 
who chairs the Committee. The Health, Safety, Environmental 
and Community Committee is responsible for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the Group’s policies and systems for identifying and 
managing health, safety, social, security and environmental risks 
within the Group’s operations. It is also responsible for assessment of 
the Group’s performance with regard to the impact of health, safety, 
security, social and environmental decisions and actions upon 
employees, communities and other stakeholders and the impact of 
such decisions and actions on the reputation of the Group, as well as 
evaluating and overseeing, on behalf of the Board, the quality and 
integrity of any reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, 
safety, security or environmental issues.
Relationship with shareholders
The Directors consider the clear and timely communication of 
information to shareholders an important part of their duties. The 
Company has procedures in place to ensure that all price sensitive 
information is identified, reviewed by management and disclosed to 
the AIM market in a timely manner. Significant developments are 
disseminated through stock exchange announcements and regular 
updates on the Company’s website. The Executive Directors meet 
with institutional investors and analysts after the announcement of 
the interim and year end results. Additional meetings are arranged 
during the year by the Company’s brokers and financial advisers on 
an ad-hoc basis when required. Feedback arising from these 
meetings is communicated to the Board. 
The Group does not have an ultimate controlling party or parent 
company. Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. (“PRF”) is a major 
shareholder in the Group but it does not have a controlling interest 
under IFRS. In addition, Gemfields and PRF entered into a 
relationship agreement in August 2013 which governs the relationship 
between the Group and PRF and clarifies that Gemfields is managed 
autonomously by its Directors and operates for the benefit of its 
shareholders as a whole, rather than solely for the benefit of PRF or 
any of its affiliates.
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
Shareholders have an opportunity at the AGM to meet the 
Chairman and other Directors, to receive an update on the 
development of the business and to ask questions of the Board. 
The Group proposes a separate resolution for each substantially 
different item of business, giving shareholders the opportunity 
to vote on each issue.
Performance and Board evaluation
The Board undertakes a regular evaluation of its own performance. 
The review involves detailed interviews with each Director and covers 
the functioning of the Board as a whole, and the operation of each 
of the Committees. The 2014–15 review confirmed the high level 
of commitment and professionalism exercised by the Board in the 
strategic and commercial leadership of the Group. It also concluded 
that the Board and its individual members continue to perform 
effectively and operate within a framework of sound governance and 
practices, wherever it is reasonably practicable, and are considered to 
be in the spirit and the principles set out in the Code.
During the second half of the 2015 financial year, an independent 
Board evaluation was carried out by Grant Thornton UK LLP 
to evaluate the current composition of the Board. The evaluation 
concluded that the Board possesses the appropriate skills and 
experience to perform its duties.  60 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Corporate Governance
Risk management and internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of 
internal controls and risk management to safeguard shareholders’ 
investment and the Group’s assets and for reviewing the effectiveness 
of the system. Any internal control system can only be designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve in part 
or in whole business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Due to the size of the Group’s operations, the Executive Directors 
and Senior Management are very closely involved in the day-to-
day running of the business. The Directors have reviewed the 
effectiveness of the internal control system presently in place and 
consider that they are still appropriate to the nature and scale of 
the operations of the Group. This review involved considering the 
present needs of the business, the risks it faces and appropriate 
control measures.
Towards the end of the financial year, Gemfields set up an internal 
audit function, reporting to the Audit Committee. The internal 
audit function has been outsourced and is currently holding 
discussions with key stakeholders to establish an internal audit 
charter aligned with the risk framework.
Key controls and procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate 
strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, and 
has put in place an organisational structure with defined lines of 
responsibility and delegation of authority. The Board is committed 
to employing suitably qualified staff so that appropriate levels of 
authority can be delegated with regard to accountability and 
acceptable levels of risks.
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior to 
approval being given. This includes the identification and assessment 
of the business risks inherent in the Group along with associated 
financial risks. Monthly and other period reports of actual results 
(financial and non-financial) are produced and reviewed by the 
Directors and Senior Management.
Management control is exercised at all levels of the Group and is 
regulated by appropriate limits of authority.
Refer to the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 42 to 
47 for further details of the risks and mitigation.
Corporate Governance continued
Future plans to further develop governance arrangements
A formal ‘whistle-blowing’ procedure has been put in place 
where employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. 
In addition, corporate governance arrangements will be reviewed 
periodically and the appropriateness and effectiveness evaluated 
and new policies developed and introduced accordingly.
Significant shareholdings
As at 30 June 2015, the Company is aware of the following interests 
of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company:
Shareholder Number of shares
Percentage 
holding
The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. 208,502,556 38.35%
Fabergé Conduit Ltd 98,647,407 18.15%
Investec Pallinghurst (Cayman) L.P. 53,491,818 9.84%
NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. 44,428,505 8.17%
BlackRock Inc 18,252,609 3.36%
Others 120,323,835 22.13%
Total 543,646,730 100%
The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P., NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. 
and Investec Pallinghurst (Cayman) L.P. hold indirect interests in 
Gemfields of 9.27%, 5.16% and 2.72% respectively through their 
holdings in Fabergé Conduit Ltd.
  61 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the annual 
Directors’ Remuneration Report summarising Gemfields’ 
remuneration policy and providing information on the Group’s 
remuneration approach and arrangements for Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and Senior Executive Management for the 
year ended 30 June 2015.
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to attract and retain 
high calibre talent who are focused to deliver the Group’s strategic 
and business objectives, while relating reward to performance in 
the context of appropriate risk and safety management, and 
aligning the interests of Executive Directors and Senior Executive 
Management with those of shareholders to build a sustainable 
performance culture. 
The Group’s key remuneration policies were reviewed this year 
against new guidelines, market best practice and a review of the risk 
environment surrounding the Group’s remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for 
determining and recommending to the Board the framework 
for executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the 
Board, the remuneration of Executive Directors and Senior 
Executive Management.
Clive Newall / Remuneration Committee Chairman
6 October 2015 62 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Remuneration Report
Under the rules of AIM, the Group is not required to prepare the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with Schedule 8 of 
the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2013. Nevertheless, the Group has taken 
steps to address some of the requirements of Schedule 8 in so far as 
it can be applied practically and appropriately, given the size of the 
Group and the nature of its operations. The report also provides the 
information required to be reported on Directors’ remuneration 
under AIM Rule 19.
Remuneration Committee 
Composition of the Committee
The members of the Committee, all of whom were independent, 
who served throughout the year were:
• Clive Newall (Chairman)
• Finn Behnken
• Graham Mascall 
Role of the Committee
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• determine and agree with the Board the broad policy and 
elements for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and 
Senior Executive Management;
• determine all individual elements of the remuneration of those 
Executive Directors and Senior Executive Management; 
• recommend for approval of the Board long-term performance 
incentives; and 
• set the scope and terms of engagement of any third-party 
experts engaged to provide professional advice and assistance 
to the Committee.
No Director takes part in any discussion directly concerning his 
own remuneration.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Senior 
Management
The remuneration policy is based on the following broad principles 
set by the Committee:
• to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract and 
retain quality individuals;
• to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of 
the business; 
• to align the interests of management with the interests of 
shareholders; and
• to set the pay of the Executive Directors and Senior Executive 
Management with due account taken of pay and conditions 
throughout the Group and corporate governance best practice.
The objective of this policy is aligned with the recommendations 
of the Code as they relate to Directors’ remuneration. That is to 
provide a level of remuneration to attract, retain and motivate 
Directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, 
but avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose. As explained 
below, a significant proportion of the Executive Directors’ and 
Senior Executive Management’s remuneration is structured to link 
rewards to corporate and individual performance.
The Company has undertaken a review, with the assistance of 
external independent remuneration consultants, of its executive 
remuneration structures. This is to ensure that these structures 
take due account of market best practice in addition to incentivising 
and rewarding the Executive Directors and Senior Executive 
Management for achieving the Company’s strategic goals. These 
strategic goals are established with the intention of generating 
outstanding returns for shareholders.
Furthermore, the Committee has appointed independent 
remuneration consultants to advise on certain aspects of 
performance based share options. Currently, the Company has 
a time-based vesting share option plan. Going forward, the 
Committee considers a performance-based vesting option plan 
to be more appropriate for the Executive Directors and certain 
senior executive employees.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 
The fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set by the 
Executive Directors. When setting these fees, due account is taken of 
fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies, the time 
commitment of each Director and any additional responsibilities 
undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board 
Committees. For 2015, the basic fee for acting as a Non-Executive 
Director was £50,000 (US$78,000) per annum and £90,000 
(US$140,400) is paid for chairing the Board.
Elements of remuneration
The below summarises the components of the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration.
(i) Basic salary 
The performance of the individual concerned is taken into 
account together with any change in responsibilities that may have 
occurred and the rates for similar roles within the appropriate 
comparator groups.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 63 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Remuneration Report
As of 30 June 2015, the following increases have been effected:
30 June 2015 
salary
30 June 2014 
salary
Change from 
2014
Ian Harebottle £335,651 £325,875 3%
Devidas Shetty £255,000 £237,500 7%
Sean Gilbertson nil nil nil
(ii) Performance related bonus
The bonuses paid to Ian Harebottle and Devidas Shetty of £369,216 and £318,750 were 110% and 125% of their basic salaries respectively 
(2014: £391,050 and £327,750 were 120% and 138% of their then basic salaries respectively).
Performance related bonus payments are based on meeting performance criteria, which have financial and non-financial components. 
The performance related bonuses for financial year 2014–2015 reflect the exceptional performance of the Company.
(iii) Long-term incentive arrangements
Share Option Scheme
The Company’s Share Option Scheme was approved by the shareholders at the 2010 AGM and currently operates as the Company’s primary 
executive long-term incentive arrangement. Annual awards are made in the form of share options. The contractual life of the options is ten 
years from the date of grant. One third of the options granted vests at 31 December each year over a three year period, during which the 
person has to remain in employment.
For options granted during the year ended 30 June 2015, options covering the first £30,000 of shares are granted under an approved company 
share options plan (“CSOP”). Options granted in excess of this amount are granted under the Company’s unapproved share option scheme.
Share options held as at 30 June 2015:
Name of Director
Share options 
held at 
1 July 2014
Share options 
granted during 
the year
Share options 
exercised during 
the year
Share options 
lapsed during 
the year
Share options 
held at 
30 June 2015 Exercise price Exercise period
Graham Mascall 1,300,000 – – – 1,300,000 8p–20p (12¢–31¢) 10 years
Ian Harebottle 4,350,000 1,000,000 – – 5,350,000 8p–48p (12¢–75¢) 10 years
Devidas Shetty 3,150,000 850,000 – – 4,000,000 8p–48p (12¢–75¢) 10 years
Sean Gilbertson – – – – – – –
Clive Newall 900,000 – – – 900,000 8p–20p (12¢–31¢) 10 years
Finn Behnken – – – – – – – 64 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Share options held as at 30 June 2014:
Name of Director
Share options 
held at 
1 July 2013
Share options 
granted during 
the year
Share options 
exercised during 
the year
Share options 
lapsed during 
the year
Share options 
held at 
30 June 2014 Exercise price Exercise period
Graham Mascall 1,300,000 – – – 1,300,000 8p–20p (12¢–31¢) 10 years 
Ian Harebottle 3,800,000 550,000 – – 4,350,000 8p–34p (12¢–56¢) 10 years 
Devidas Shetty 2,750,000 400,000 – – 3,150,000 8p–34p (12¢–56¢) 10 years
Sean Gilbertson – – – – – – –
Clive Newall 900,000 – – – 900,000 8p–20p (12¢–31¢) 10 years 
Finn Behnken – – – – – – –
(iv) Other benefits 
With effect from 1 July 2014, Gemfields Executive Directors were awarded cash in lieu of benefits equivalent to 10% of their annual base 
salary. Similar benefits have been made available to other employees.
(v) Pensions 
There is no pension plan currently in operation for the Executive Directors of the Group. Gemfields will implement a defined contribution 
pension scheme from 1 January 2016 for its employees in the UK. 
Directors’ service contracts, notice periods and termination payments
Executive Directors
The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are as follows:
Notice period 
from Director
Notice period 
from the Company
Ian Harebottle 6 months 6 months
Devidas Shetty 3 months 3 months
Sean Gilbertson by rotation by rotation
The service contracts of all Directors, which are rolling contracts, are subject to standard terms in the event of termination.
Executive Directors’ external appointments
Board approval is required before any external appointment can be accepted by an Executive Director. Whether the Executive Director 
is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services or whether such fees are remitted to the Company will be determined on a case by 
case basis.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but are appointed for an initial three-year term. Non-
Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can be terminated either by them 
or by the Company on one month’s written notice. The Chairman’s notice period is one month. The Company may invite a Non-Executive 
Director to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms subject to a particularly rigorous review of performance and 
taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors are required 
to stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years. 65 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Governance / Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ emoluments
For the year ended 30 June 2015
In thousands of US$ Fees Salary
Bonus 
payments
Share-based 
payments
Other 
benefits Total
Non-Executive Director – Graham Mascall 140 – – 4 – 144
Executive Director – Ian Harebottle – 524 580 271 51 1,426
Executive Director – Devidas Shetty – 398 501 216 40 1,155
Executive Director – Sean Gilbertson – – – – – –
Non-Executive Director – Clive Newall 78 – – 3 – 81
Non-Executive Director – Finn Behnken 78 – – – – 78
Total 296 922 1,081 494  91 2,884
For the year ended 30 June 2014 
In thousands of US$ Fees Salary
Bonus 
payments
Share-based 
payments
Other 
benefits Total
Non-Executive Director – Graham Mascall 139 – – 24 – 163
Executive Director – Ian Harebottle – 531 665 261 – 1,457
Executive Director – Devidas Shetty – 387 557 202 – 1,146
Executive Director – Sean Gilbertson – – – – – –
Non-Executive Director – Clive Newall 73 – – 16 – 89
Non-Executive Director – Finn Behnken 73 – – – – 73
Total 285 918 1,222 503 – 2,928 66 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements 67 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Gemfields’ Zambian 
emerald rough being 
viewed at an auction Financial Statements / Independent Auditors’ Report
68 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of Gemfields plc
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Gemfields plc
We have audited the Financial Statements of Gemfields plc for the 
year ended 30 June 2015, which comprises the Consolidated and 
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated and the Parent Company’s Statement of 
Cash Flows, the Consolidated and the Parent Company’s Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) 
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent 
Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (“FRC’s”) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial  
statements is provided on the FRC’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and the Parent Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Financial 
Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Scott Knight (senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor
55 Baker Street
London
United Kingdom
6 October 2015
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England 
and Wales (with registered number OC305127). 69 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Consolidated Income Statement
In thousands of US$ Note 2015 2014
Revenue 2 171,448 160,089
Cost of sales 3 (86,483) (75,029)
Gross profit 84,965 85,060
Other income 747 192
Selling, general and administrative expenses 4 (55,309) (48,053)
Impairment charge on available-for-sale investments – (252)
Profit from operations 6 30,403 36,947
Finance income 7 223 52
Finance expenses 7 (4,299) (716)
Profit before taxation 26,327 36,283
Tax charge 8 (13,980) (20,011)
Profit after taxation 12,347 16,272
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent 3,700 8,811
Non-controlling interest 8,647 7,461
12,347 16,272
Earnings per share for profit attributable to the owners of the parent during the year
Basic 9 US$0.01 US$0.02
Diluted 9 US$0.01 US$0.02
The notes on pages 74 to 105 form part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 June 2015 70 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Profit after taxation 12,347 16,272
Other comprehensive loss:
Items that have been/may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange loss arising on translation of foreign operations (2,915) (464)
Cumulative loss transferred to the income statement on disposal of a foreign operation (6) –
Total other comprehensive loss (2,921) (464)
Total comprehensive income 9,426 15,808
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 779 8,347
Non-controlling interest 8,647 7,461
9,426 15,808
The notes on pages 74 to 105 form part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income
For the year ended 30 June 2015 71 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
In thousands of US$ Note 2015 2014
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 240,796 228,563
Available-for-sale investments 40 270
Intangible assets 11 45,491 41,507
Deferred tax assets 8 5,048 5,519
Other non-current assets 12 8,217 3,566
Total non-current assets 299,592 279,425
Current assets
Inventory 16 104,869 88,508
Trade and other receivables 17 34,805 21,917
Cash and cash equivalents 27,973 36,837
Total current assets 167,647 147,262
Total assets 467,239 426,687
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 8 (66,858) (69,669)
Borrowings 18 (20,000) (1,677)
Other non-current liabilities 19 (3,333) (3,730)
Total non-current liabilities (90,191) (75,076)
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 20 (25,283) (20,917)
Current tax payable (27,228) (26,550)
Borrowings 18 (24,699) (15,021)
Total current liabilities (77,210) (62,488)
Total liabilities (167,401) (137,564)
Total net assets 299,838 289,123
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 21 9,614 9,570
Share premium 98,404 97,379
Merger reserve 207,986 207,986
Option reserve 5,179 4,130
Cumulative translation reserve (2,774) 147
Retained deficit (74,843) (79,700)
Total capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent 243,566 239,512
Non-controlling interest 56,272 49,611
Total equity 299,838 289,123
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 October 2015.
Devidas Shetty / Chief Operating Officer
The notes on pages 74 to 105 form part of these Financial Statements. Company number 05129023
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
At 30 June 2015 72 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
In thousands of US$
Share
capital
Share
premium
Merger
reserve
Option
reserve
Cumulative 
translation 
reserve
Retained 
deficit Total
Non-
controlling 
interest Equity
Balance at 1 July 2013 9,557 97,214 207,986 2,736 611 (88,904) 229,200 46,150 275,350
Profit for the year – – – – – 8,811 8,811 7,461 16,272
Other comprehensive loss – – – – (464) – (464) – (464)
Share options forfeited – – – (192) – 192 – – –
Issue of shares 13 165 – (201) – 201 178 – 178
Share-based payments – – – 1,787 – – 1,787 – 1,787
Dividends paid – – – – – – – (4,000) (4,000)
Balance at 30 June 2014 9,570 97,379 207,986 4,130 147 (79,700) 239,512 49,611 289,123
Profit for the year – – – – – 3,700 3,700 8,647 12,347
Other comprehensive loss – – – – (2,921) – (2,921) – (2,921)
Contribution for non-controlling 
interest – – – – – – – 14 14
Share options forfeited – – – (473) – 473 – – –
Issue of shares 44 1,025 – (684) – 684 1,069 – 1,069
Share-based payments – – – 2,206 – – 2,206 – 2,206
Dividends paid – – – – – – – (2,000) (2,000)
Balance at 30 June 2015 9,614 98,404 207,986 5,179 (2,774) (74,843) 243,566 56,272 299,838
The nature and purpose of each reserve within Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity is described as follows:
Reserve Description and purpose
Share capital Amount subscribed for share capital at nominal value.
Share premium Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Merger reserve The difference between the fair value of the shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries in excess of the nominal value of the shares, where 90% or more of shares are acquired.
Option reserve Cumulative fair value of options charged to the Consolidated Income Statement net of transfers to the 
retained deficit on exercised and cancelled/lapsed options.
Cumulative translation reserve Cumulative gains and losses on translating the net assets of overseas operations to the presentation 
currency.
Retained deficit Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-controlling interest Amounts attributable to non-controlling shareholders.
The notes on pages 74 to 105 form part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 30 June 2015 73 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
In thousands of US$ Note 2015 2014
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year after tax 12,347 16,272
Depreciation and amortisation 10,11 33,952 22,149
Taxation charge 8 13,980 20,011
Share-based payments 2,111 1,787
Finance income 7 (223) (52)
Finance expense 7 4,299 716
Profit on sale of available-for-sale investments (193) –
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 63 83
Impairment charge on available-for-sale investments – 252
Increase in trade and other receivables (14,681) (13,388)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (499) 8,941
(Decrease)/increase in non-current liabilities (302) 1,269
Decrease in property deposits 25 –
Increase in inventory (18,315) (3,894)
Cash generated from operations 32,564 54,146
Taxation paid (15,642) (8,431)
Net cash generated from operating activities 16,922 45,715
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (4,400) (3,659)
Sale/(purchase) of available-for-sale investment 423 (40)
Interest received 7 223 52
Loans granted 12 (4,676) (284)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (24,514) (8,722)
Stripping costs (17,367) (7,566)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 19 18
Net cash used for investing activities (50,292) (20,201)
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of ordinary shares 1,069 178
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (2,000) (4,000)
Repayment of borrowings 18 (26,788) (4,697)
Proceeds from borrowing 18 55,000 10,000
Arrangement fees paid on borrowings (563) (200)
Interest paid (2,038) (716)
Net cash generated from financing activities 24,680 565
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (8,690) 26,079
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 36,837 11,222
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (174) (464)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 27,973 36,837
The notes on pages 74 to 105 form part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 30 June 2015 74 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2015 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations (collectively “IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IASB”) as adopted by the European Union (the “EU”).
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the 
“Group”). The Parent Company Financial Statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
Going concern
In forming its opinion as to going concern, the Board prepares a working capital forecast based upon its assumptions as to trading as well 
as taking into account the available borrowing facilities in line with the capital management policies referred to in note 23. The Board also 
prepares a number of alternative scenarios modelling the business variables and key risks and uncertainties. Based upon these, the Board has 
concluded that the Group has adequate working capital and therefore confirm their belief that it is appropriate to use the going concern basis 
of preparation for the Financial Statements of the Company and the Group.
Basis of consolidation
Where the Company has the control, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or 
business so as to obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary. The Company controls an investee if all three of the 
following elements are present: power over the investee, exposure to variable returns from the investee, and the ability of the investor to 
use its  power to affect those variable returns. Control is reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change 
in any of these elements of control.
The Consolidated Financial Statements present the results of the Group as if they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and 
balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
New standards and amendments in the year
The following were amendments to published standards and interpretations to existing standards effective in the year and adopted by 
the Group.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements
The new standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of which entities are controlled and are required to be 
consolidated. This standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that addresses the accounting for 
consolidated financial statements. The new standard became mandatory in the EU for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. 
The new standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements
The new standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled entities – non-monetary contributions by ventures. 
The standard defines contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement and the accounting for joint operations and joint ventures. 
The new standard became mandatory in the EU for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The new standard did not have an 
impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities
The new standard covers the disclosures that were previously required in consolidated financial statements under IAS 27 Consolidated and 
separate financial statements as well as those included in IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and IAS 28 Investments in associates. The new 
standard became mandatory in the EU for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The new standard did not have an impact 
on the financial position or performance of the Group. 75 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation – offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The amendment clarifies existing application issues relating to the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities requirements. The amendment 
became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with retrospective application. The amendment did not have an 
impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets – recoverable amount disclosures
The amendment to the standard was issued in May 2013 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The 
amendment removes the requirement to disclose recoverable amounts when there has been no impairment or reversal of impairment. Further 
to that, the disclosure requirements have been aligned with those under US GAAP for impaired assets. The amendment did not have an 
impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement – novation of derivatives and continuation hedge accounting
The amendment to the standard was issued in June 2013 and provides guidance in respect of the continuation of hedge accounting if a 
hedging derivative was novated. The amendment became effective for the financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and did not 
have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The Group has elected not to early adopt the following revised and amended standards, which are not yet mandatory in the EU. The list 
below includes only standards and interpretations that could have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments
The complete standard has been issued in July 2014 including the requirements previously issued and additional amendments. The new 
standard replaces IAS 39 and includes a new expected loss impairment model, changes to the classification and measurement requirements of 
financial assets as well as to hedge accounting. The new standard becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
The Group will assess the impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements – acquisition of interests in joint operations
The amendment was issued in May 2014 and provides guidance in respect of the accounting for acquisitions in interests of joint operations. 
The amendment becomes mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2016. The Group does not expect an impact on its 
Consolidated Financial Statements from this amendment.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers
The new standard was issued in May 2014 and establishes the principles for the disclosure of useful information in the financial statements 
in respect of contracts with customers. The new standard becomes mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The 
effect from the additional disclosure requirements will be assessed and disclosure will be made once the Group has fully assessed the impact 
of applying IFRS 15.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – disclosure initiative
The amendment was issued in December 2014 and includes a number of smaller projects aiming to improve the presentation and disclosure 
principles and requirements in existing standards. The amendment becomes mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 
2016. The Group does not expect a significant impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements arising from the application of this amendment.
Amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38 Intangible assets – clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation
The amendment to the two standards was issued in November 2013 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 
2016. The amendment clarifies the pattern to be applied in case of revenue-based amortisation methods for tangible and intangible assets. 
The Group does not apply revenue-based amortisation methods and does thus not expect an impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
1 Accounting policies continued 76 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Amendment to IAS 27 Separate financial statements – equity method
The amendment to the standard was issued in August 2014 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
The amendment allows the use of the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in an entity’s 
separate IFRS financial statements if local regulation requires using the equity method. This amendment applies only to the separate 
Financial Statements of the Parent Company and is irrelevant for the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, the Directors have made judgements, estimations and assumptions regarding the 
future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In the future, actual experience may differ from these estimates and 
assumptions.
The judgements, estimations, and assumptions that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements 
are detailed below.
(a) Impairment testing of non-current assets and the Kagem cash generating unit (“CGU”)
Assessing the Group’s non-current operating assets for impairment requires a significant amount of judgement. The determination of fair 
value and value-in-use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, gemstone 
prices (considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors), reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, 
the life of mine, future capital expenditure and the applicable discount rate.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty. There is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these 
projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets. In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets 
may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
(b) Impairment testing of Fabergé CGU including the Fabergé trademarks
The Fabergé trademarks are a key asset in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Directors believe that the asset has an 
indefinite useful life as it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity indefinitely, 
and in accordance with IAS 36, have considered the asset for impairment.
Key estimates relating to the valuation of the Fabergé CGU are disclosed in the note 11.
(c) Determination of ore reserves
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information complied by appropriately qualified people relating to the 
geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates. 
The estimate of recoverable reserves is based on factors such as gemstone prices, future capital requirements and production costs along with 
geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and mineral resources. Consequently assumptions that are valid at the 
time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
The ore reserves impact the depreciation of evaluated mining assets being depreciated based on the quantity of ore reserves.
(d) Deferred tax
Zambia currently has a variable rate of corporation tax. In considering the tax rate which should be applied to the temporary differences to 
quantify the deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in Zambia, management estimates that the average rate that is expected to be payable 
over the life of the Kagem project is approximately 35%. The average rate is determined based on legislation which is substantively enacted 
using the Kagem life of mine model.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
1 Accounting policies continued 77 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
(e) Useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives 
are based on the management’s estimates of the period, over which an asset is expected to be available for use by the Group or the amount 
of production expected to be obtained from the asset by the Group; which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. Changes 
to estimates can result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in 
specific periods.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the CGU 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the 
change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
(f) Stripping costs
Stripping costs incurred in opening up new ore areas are capitalised as part of the cost of developing the pit and subsequently amortised over 
the mining of the ore (known as the reaction zone). This is reported under property, plant and equipment.
Deferred stripping costs are amortised over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that becomes more accessible 
as a result of the stripping activity. Specifically, the calculation of amortisation for deferred stripping costs is the ratio of ore mined (reaction 
zone) to the total ore estimated. Judgement is required to estimate the total ore within the reaction zone and the expected useful life of the 
identified component. The judgements made are supported by technical data.
(g) Inventories
The Group reviews the net realisable value of, and demand for, its inventory, on a quarterly basis to provide assurance that recorded inventory 
is stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Factors that could impact estimated demand and selling prices include competitor actions 
and economic trends. The Directors use their experience, market data and trend analysis when undertaking these reviews.
Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Financial Statements are set out below. The policies have been consistently 
applied to all the years presented.
Foreign currency
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in thousands of United States Dollars (“US$”) unless otherwise stated. The closing 
Pounds Sterling to US$ exchange rate was 1:1.57.
Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates 
(the functional currency) are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated at the rates ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on the translation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities 
are similarly recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement, as a finance expense.
On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated into US$ at rates approximating those prevailing when the transactions 
took place. All assets and liabilities of overseas operations, including goodwill arising on the acquisition of those operations, are translated 
at the rate ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on translating the closing net assets at the closing rate at the balance 
sheet date and the results of overseas operations at average exchange rates (unless these average rates are not reasonable approximations of 
the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing rate transaction dates, in which case actual rates are used) are recognised directly in equity in 
the cumulative translation reserve account.
Exchange differences recognised in the income statement of the Group entities’ separate Financial Statements on the translation of long-term 
monetary items forming part of the Group’s net investment in the overseas operation concerned are reclassified to the cumulative translation 
reserve on consolidation.
1 Accounting policies continued 78 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Revenue
Gemstones
Revenue and associated costs from the sale of gemstones are recognised when control together with the risks and rewards of ownership are 
transferred to the customer.
For rough gemstones sold at auction, this transfer of ownership is deemed to occur at the point the buyer enters into an agreement with the 
Group to purchase the gemstones.
For cut and polished gemstones the transfer of ownership is deemed to occur at the date the invoice is raised and the customer has taken 
ownership of the gemstones.
Retail, wholesale and web sales
Revenue from retail, wholesale and web sales is recognised when goods are delivered to the customer. Returns are accounted for at the point 
when the customer returns the item in accordance with terms and conditions published on the Fabergé website and a credit note is issued to 
the customer.
Mineral royalties and production taxes
The Group recognises mineral royalties and production taxes following the sale of rough gemstones at auction. Mineral royalties and 
production taxes are based on the fixed percentage of the final sales price achieved at auction applicable at the time.
Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments in the form of share options to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based 
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based 
payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will 
eventually vest.
Fair value is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Cash settled share-based payments
The cost of cash-settled share-based payments is measured at fair value using an appropriate option pricing model. Fair value is established 
initially at the grant date and is remeasured at each reporting date thereafter until the awards are settled. During the vesting period a liability 
is recognised representing the product of the fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the reporting date. 
From the end of the vesting period until settlement, the liability represents the full fair value of the award as at the reporting date. Changes 
in the carrying amount for the liability are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year.
If an award fails to vest as the result of certain types of performance conditions not being satisfied, the impact on the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income will be adjusted to reflect this.
Current taxation
The current tax expense or credit is the amount of taxes estimated to be payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for a 
period as well as adjustments to estimates in respect of previous periods. It is calculated on the basis of the tax laws and rates enacted or 
substantively enacted as at the end of the reporting period.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
1 Accounting policies continued 79 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the Statement of Financial Position 
differs to its tax base, except for differences arising on:
• the initial recognition of goodwill;
• the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit; and
• investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and 
it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and 
are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the 
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:
• the same taxable Group company; or
• different Group companies which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the 
liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled 
or recovered.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. As well as the 
purchase price, cost includes directly attributable costs and the estimated present value of any future unavoidable costs of dismantling and 
removing items. The corresponding liability is recognised within provisions.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Evaluated mining properties are amortised on the unit of production method in the year, set against the 
total proved and probable ore reserves as detailed in the SRK resource statement, which is publicly available at http://corporate.gemfields.co.uk.
Depreciation is provided on all other items of property, plant and equipment to write off the carrying value of items over their expected useful 
economic lives. It is applied at the following rates:
Tangible asset Useful economic life
Freehold buildings 5% per annum straight line
Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 20–25% per annum straight line
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 20–33% per annum straight line
Evaluated mining properties The Group calculates depreciation based on the ratio of ore mined during the period to the 
total volume of ore to be mined in the future based on the estimated reserves.
Mining asset
Following the determination of the commercial and technical viability of a mining project, the relevant expenditure, including licence 
acquisition costs, is transferred from unevaluated mining properties within intangible assets to evaluated mining properties within property, 
plant and equipment. Exploration expenditure transferred to property, plant and equipment is subsequently depreciated using a unit of 
production method. The Group calculates depreciation based on the ratio of ore mined during the period to the total volume of ore to be 
mined in the future, based on the estimated reserves. Expenditure deemed to be unsuccessful is written off to the Income Statement.
1 Accounting policies continued 80 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Stripping costs
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing 
the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the life of mine on a unit of production basis.
Production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of improved access to 
ore to be mined in the future, are capitalised as a separate asset (deferred stripping asset) within property, plant and equipment.
Deferred stripping assets are amortised over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that becomes more accessible 
as a result of the stripping activity. Specifically, the calculation of amortisation for deferred stripping costs is the ratio of ore mined within the 
reaction zone (the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity) to the total ore estimated and identified within 
the reaction zone exposed by the stripping activity.
Impairment
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken on an annual basis.
Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount 
may be different to the recoverable amount. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value-in-
use and fair value less costs to sell), the asset is written down. Where the carrying value of an asset is below its recoverable amount, any 
historic impairment charged in respect of the asset is reversed accordingly.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the level of the CGU 
the asset is part of (i.e. the lowest level group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows).
The Group’s principal CGUs are determined on an operational basis and have been identified as the Kagem and Montepuez mines and Fabergé.
Business combinations
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method. In the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position, the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair 
values at the acquisition date, which is the date when control passes to the Company. The results of acquired operations are included in 
the Consolidated Income Statement from the date on which control is obtained. Any difference arising between the fair value and tax
base of the acquiree’s assets and liabilities that gives rise to a taxable deductible difference results in recognition of a deferred tax liability. 
No deferred tax liability is recognised on goodwill.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the 
Company reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted for 
additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts 
and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
Merger reserve
Where the Company issues shares as consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries in excess of the nominal value of the shares, where 90% or 
more of the shares are acquired, the excess over nominal value is accounted as merger reserve.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
1 Accounting policies continued 81 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Non-controlling interests
For business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010, the Group initially recognised any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 
2010 the Group has the choice, on a transaction by transaction basis, to initially recognise any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
which is a present ownership interest and entitles its holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation at 
either acquisition date fair value or at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. Other components of non-controlling interest such as outstanding share options are generally measured at fair value. 
The Group has not elected to take the option to use fair value in acquisitions completed to date.
From 1 January 2010, the total comprehensive income of non-wholly owned subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent and to the 
non-controlling interests in proportion to their relative ownership interests. Before this date, unfunded losses in such subsidiaries were 
attributed entirely to the Group. In accordance with the transitional requirements of IAS 27 (2008), the carrying value of non-controlling 
interests at the effective date of the amendment has not been restated.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the total acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Cost comprises the fair value of assets given, liabilities assumed and equity instruments issued, plus the amount of any non-controlling 
interests in the acquiree plus, if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree. 
Contingent consideration is included within the cost at its acquisition date fair value and, in the case of contingent consideration classified 
as a financial liability, remeasured subsequently through profit or loss. Direct costs of acquisition are recognised immediately as an expense.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the Income Statement. Where the fair 
value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair value of consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the 
Income Statement on the acquisition date.
Unevaluated mining properties
Initial exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred in relation to project areas to which the Group’s licences and rights relate are 
capitalised on a project-by-project basis pending determination of the feasibility of the project within intangible assets – unevaluated mining 
properties. Costs incurred include appropriate technical and administrative expenses but not general overheads. If a mining development 
project is successful, the related expenditures are transferred to property, plant and equipment at which point they are assessed for 
impairment. Subsequently, costs are amortised over the estimated life of the commercial ore reserves using a unit of production method. 
The calculation is based on proved and probable ore reserves attributable to the specific asset. Where a licence is relinquished, a project is 
abandoned, or is considered to be of no further commercial value to the Group, the related costs are written off.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Any reversal of the impairment is determined using the depreciated historic cost of the specific asset.
Finite life intangible assets
Externally acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration paid and subsequently amortised on a 
straight-line basis over their useful economic life, except for trademarks, which have indefinite useful economic life and are reviewed for 
impairment annually.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from 
contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. The amounts attributed to such intangibles are arrived at using 
appropriate valuation techniques.
1 Accounting policies continued 82 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
The useful economic lives of significant finite life intangibles recognised by the Group are as follows:
Intangible asset Useful economic life
Trademarks Indefinite
Software 3 years
Fabergé customer list 6 years
Investment in joint ventures
Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more joint 
venture partners under contractual arrangements. The Group’s interest in such joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method in 
accordance with IFRS 11. The Group equity accounts for its investments in joint ventures and does not recognise its share of losses in excess 
of the carrying amount of the investment.
Leased assets
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are retained by the lessor (an ‘operating lease’), the total rentals 
payable under the lease are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The aggregate benefit 
of any lease incentive is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Property lease premiums are initially recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at cost and subsequently amortised over the term of 
the lease. 
Financial assets
The Group classified its financial assets into two categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which the asset was acquired. 
The Group has not classified any of its financial assets as either held to maturity or fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and receivables: these are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, loan receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of 
Financial Position. Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand and short-term deposits made for varying periods of between one 
day and three months.
Available-for-sale: Non-derivative financial assets not included in the above categories are classified as available-for-sale and comprise 
principally the Group’s strategic investments in entities not qualifying as subsidiaries, associates or jointly controlled entities. They are carried 
at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in a separate component of equity (available-for-sale reserve). Where there is a 
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset (which constitutes objective evidence of impairment), 
the full amount of the impairment, including any amount previously charged to equity, is recognised in the Income Statement. Purchases 
and sales of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on settlement date with any change in fair value between trade date and 
settlement date being recognised in the Income Statement. On sale, the amount held in the available-for-sale reserve associated with that 
asset is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities include the following items:
• trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities, which are initially measured at fair value and subsequently recognised at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method; and
• borrowings are measured at inception at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently they are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Group has not classified any financial liabilities as ‘fair value through profit or loss’ financial liabilities.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
1 Accounting policies continued 83 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Inventory
Inventory relating to rough gemstones has been valued at the lower of cost on the weighted average basis and net realisable value. Cost 
includes direct production costs, depreciation of mining equipment and amortisation of the mining asset and deferred stripping costs. 
Net realisable value of rough gemstones is the estimated market value based on past auctions, less estimated costs to sell.
During the process of extracting emeralds and rubies, beryl and corundum are also produced. This production is treated as a by-product, and 
is measured at net realisable value. The net realisable value is accounted for as a contribution to the costs of producing emeralds and rubies in 
the equivalent period. Upon sale of the by-products, the sale is recognised as revenue, with any profit over its previous carrying value being 
recognised within revenue in the period of sale.
Cut and polished gemstones, retail inventory and Fabergé inventory are initially recognised at cost, and subsequently at the lower of cost  
and net realisable value. Cost comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Net realisable value is based on expected sales price, less estimated costs to sell.
Consignment inventory
The terms of agreements with customers who request the Group to onward sell their cut and polished gemstones normally note that no legal 
title to the cut and polished gemstones passes to Gemfields. For each particular arrangement an analysis of whether all significant risks and 
rewards of ownership of cut and polished gemstones have passed to the Group is undertaken, in order to determine if it is to be recognised as 
the Group’s inventory. If no significant risks and rewards have passed to the Group, then such gemstones are considered to be consignment 
goods and are not recorded as part of the Group’s inventory.
Provision for decommissioning and restoration
A provision for decommissioning and restoration costs is recognised at the commencement of mining. The amount recognised is the present 
value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements. A corresponding property, 
plant and equipment asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created, which is subsequently depreciated as part of the cost of 
production. Any change in the present value of the estimated future expenditure is reflected and adjusted against the provision and evaluated 
mining property, unless the asset to which the provision relates has been impaired in which case the reversal of the provision is taken through 
the Income Statement.
Other non-current liabilities
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation.
1 Accounting policies continued 84 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
2 Segmental analysis
For management purposes, the Group is organised into geographic units and business units based on the products and services and has five 
reportable segments as follows:
• Zambia (emerald and beryl mining activities);
• Mozambique (ruby and corundum mining activities);
• UK (sales of cut and polished gemstones, marketing, technical and administrative services);
• Fabergé (wholesale and retail sales of jewellery); and
• Other (new projects, traded auctions, sales and marketing offices).
The reporting on these investments to management focuses on revenue, operating costs and capital expenditure. These figures are presented 
after intercompany adjustments have been accounted for.
2015 In thousands of US$ Zambia Mozambique
UK 
(Corporate) Fabergé Other Total
Revenues from external customers 64,910 88,520 3,016 8,860 6,142 171,448
Operating profit/(loss) 9,360 57,312 (23,805) (15,175) 2,711 30,403
Finance income 3 – – – 220 223
Finance expenses (2,206) (1,029) (946) (80) (38) (4,299)
Profit/(loss) after tax 9,300 38,954 (23,107) (15,101) 2,301 12,347
Total non-current assets 220,669 15,741 7,764 42,718 12,700 299,592
Total non-current liabilities 86,319 2,912 – 725 235 90,191
Total assets 273,062 60,328 24,190 83,147 26,512 467,239
Total liabilities 107,965 19,046 32,597 6,325 1,468 167,401
Other charges
Depreciation and amortisation 29,553 3,293 60 1,021 25 33,952
Impairment charge – – – – – –
2014 In thousands of US$ Zambia Mozambique
UK 
(Corporate) Fabergé Other Total
Revenues from external customers 87,818 33,528 4,291 9,552 24,900 160,089
Operating profit/(loss) 49,775 16,614 (34,605) (15,627) 20,790 36,947
Finance income – – – – 52 52
Finance expenses (555) (21) (136) – (4) (716)
Profit/(loss) after tax 28,322 14,395 (32,009) (15,120) 20,684 16,272
Total non-current assets 216,658 9,790 6,127 43,028 3,822 279,425
Total non-current liabilities 73,519 523 – 1,034 – 75,076
Total assets 269,158 47,773 14,538 81,500 13,718 426,687
Total liabilities 105,879 7,432 14,787 5,736 3,730 137,564
Other charges
Depreciation and amortisation 19,502 1,288 67 1,278 14 22,149
Impairment charge – – 252 – – 252
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015 85 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
3 Cost of sales
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Mining and production costs
 Mineral royalties and production taxes 12,905 9,179
 Labour and related costs 12,800 6,683
 Fuel costs 6,266 3,442
 Repairs and maintenance 4,205 2,317
 Security costs 3,251 2,657
 Camp costs 2,453 862
 Blasting 1,103 786
 Other mining and processing costs 3,486 1,381
Total mining and production costs 46,469 27,307
Depreciation and amortisation 33,952 22,149
Change in inventory and purchases 6,062 25,573
Total cost of sales 86,483 75,029
4 Selling, general and administrative expenses
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Labour and related costs 20,563 17,646
Selling, marketing and advertising 16,224 13,590
Professional and other services 5,720 3,278
Travel and accommodation 3,537 3,291
Rent and rates 3,446 4,270
Share-based payments 2,111 1,787
Office expenses 1,093 1,213
Other selling, general and administrative expenses 2,615 2,978
Total selling, general and administrative expenses 55,309 48,053
5 Employees and Directors
Number of employees 2015 2014
Administration staff 198 158
Fabergé staff 38 46
Mining staff 1,098 888
Average number of employees 1,334 1,092
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Gross salaries 28,028 23,524
Share-based payments 2,111 1,787
Social security costs 1,671 1,470
31,810 26,781 86 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Gross salaries includes contract labour hire costs of 295 contractors (2014: 112) at the mine sites.
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the 
Group. Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors of the Company. Details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 65. None of the Directors exercised share options during the year (2014: none).
6 Profit from operations
The profit from operations has been arrived at after charging the following.
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Auditors’ remuneration
 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Group and Company’s annual accounts 112 116
 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services 1 –
 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the foreign subsidiaries 131 131
 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for tax related matters across the Group – –
Depreciation and amortisation (notes 10 and 11) 33,952 22,149
Impairment of available-for-sale investments – 252
Operating lease costs – land and buildings 2,705 2,341
Share-based payments (note 22) 2,111 1,787
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 63 83
Profit on sale of available-for-sale investments 193 –
7 Finance income and expense
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Finance income
Interest received 223 52
223 52
Finance expenses
Interest on bank loans, finance charges and bank charges (2,389) (716)
Exchange differences (1,910) –
(4,299) (716)
Net finance expense (4,076) (664)
8 Taxation
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Current tax
Tax charge for year 16,320 28,966
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,340) (8,955)
Total tax expense 13,980 20,011
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
5 Employees and Directors continued 87 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
The reasons for the difference between the actual tax charge for the year and the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom 
applied to profits for the year are as follows:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 26,327 36,283
Taxation on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% (2014: 21%) 5,529 7,619
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 500 1,258
Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions and other temporary differences 7,951 11,134
Total tax expense 13,980 20,011
The main rate of corporation tax fell from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The ‘Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions and other temporary differences’ reflects the impact of the applicable Zambian 
corporate income tax regime which saw the effective elimination of corporate tax on taxable profits arising from mining operations.
Further to recent fiscal legislative reforms in Zambia, the taxable profits arising in respect of mining operations in future accounting periods 
are likely to be subject to corporate income tax of 30% and a variable profits tax of up to 15%.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the balance sheet liability method using the applicable tax rate in the 
respective jurisdictions. Temporary differences between the tax bases and net carrying values arise in regards to the effect of differences 
between tax and accounting depreciation, tax losses and other provisions generated during the period.
Details of the deferred tax liabilities and assets, amounts recognised in the Income Statement and amounts recognised in other 
comprehensive income are as follows:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Recognised deferred tax assets
Other temporary differences 1,470 2,116
Tax losses 5,048 3,403
Total deferred tax assets 6,518 5,519
Deferred tax assets netted against deferred tax liabilities (1,470) –
Total deferred tax assets as per the Statement of Financial Position 5,048 5,519
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Recognised deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment (841) (1,163)
Mining property (62,864) (65,615)
Other temporary differences (1,261) –
Inventory valuation in Kagem (2,751) (2,077)
Business combinations (611) (814)
Total deferred tax liabilities (68,328) (69,669)
Deferred tax assets netted against deferred tax liabilities 1,470 –
Total deferred tax liabilities as per the Statement of Financial Position (66,858) (69,669)
8 Taxation continued 88 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
At 1 July (64,150) (73,216)
Deferred stripping costs – 689
Property, plant and equipment 322 947
Other temporary differences (1,907) 1,315
Mining property 2,751 2,077
Business combinations 203 539
Inventory valuation in Kagem (674) (14)
Tax losses 1,645 3,403
Recognised in the Income Statement in the year 2,340 8,956
Business combinations – 110
At 30 June (61,810) (64,150)
Based on a review of budgets and forecasts, deferred tax assets are only recognised in relation to tax losses and other temporary differences 
which would give rise to deferred tax assets where it is considered probable that the losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future, and 
therefore the asset is recoverable.
No deferred tax is recognised in relation to:
• deductible temporary differences in the amount of US$ nil (2014: US$5.2 million) arising on the write off of available-for-sale 
investments; and
• unused tax losses in the amount of US$38.2 million (2014: US$25.5 million).
9 Earnings per share
Earnings per ordinary share has been calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, plus the weighted average number of shares that would be 
issued on the conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. The calculation of the dilutive potential ordinary shares 
related to employee and director share option plans includes only those options with exercise prices below the average share trading price for 
each period.
2015 2014
Profit attributable to the owners of the parent during the year used in basic and dilutive 
calculation, in thousands of US$ 3,700 8,811
Basic weighted average number of shares 541,842,842 540,334,373
Dilutive potential of ordinary shares:
 Employee and Director share option plans 11,412,051 6,865,988
Diluted weighted average number of shares 553,254,893 547,200,361
Earnings per share for profit attributable to the owners of the parent during the year, in US$:
 Basic 0.01 0.02
 Diluted 0.01 0.02
Details of the share options are in note 22. The calculation of the diluted earnings per share assumes all criteria giving rise to the dilution 
of the earnings per share are achieved and all outstanding share options are exercised.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
8 Taxation continued 89 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
10 Property, plant and equipment
In thousands of US$
Freehold land 
and buildings
Plant, 
machinery and 
motor vehicles
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
Evaluated 
mining 
properties
Deferred 
stripping costs Total
Cost
At 1 July 2013 2,877 28,624 2,896 269,753 30,267 334,417
Additions 1,081 7,324 317 523 8,925 18,170
Transferred from intangible assets
(a)
– – – 3,322 – 3,322
Disposals – (96) (25) – – (121)
Foreign exchange differences – – 198 – – 198
At 30 June 2014 3,958 35,852 3,386 273,598 39,192 355,986
Additions 2,894 19,120 1,902 1,200 20,763 45,879
Disposals – (276) – – – (276)
Foreign exchange differences – – 38 – – 38
At 30 June 2015 6,852 54,696 5,326 274,798 59,955 401,627
Accumulated depreciation and amortisation
At 1 July 2013 208 16,024 756 76,349 11,771 105,108
Provided during the year 301 5,700 1,016 5,902 9,260 22,179
Disposals – (6) (14) – – (20)
Foreign exchange differences – – 156 – – 156
At 30 June 2014 509 21,718 1,914 82,251 21,031 127,423
Provided during the year 215 9,364 822 7,989 15,146 33,536
Disposals – (194) – – – (194)
Foreign exchange differences – – 66 – – 66
At 30 June 2015 724 30,888 2,802 90,240 36,177 160,831
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 6,128 23,808 2,524 184,558 23,778 240,796
At 30 June 2014 3,449 14,134 1,472 191,347 18,161 228,563
At 30 June 2013 2,669 12,600 2,140 193,404 18,496 229,309
(a) In June 2014, the Gemfields plc Board of Directors concluded that the Montepuez ruby project no longer met the definition of an exploration and evaluation asset as defined under IFRS 6 and hence 
the relevant costs were reclassified from intangible unevaluated mining property to inventory and evaluated mining property. 90 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
11 Intangible assets
In thousands of US$ Software Goodwill
Indefinite life 
trademarks
Finite life 
intangible 
assets
Unevaluated 
mining 
properties 
Zambian 
projects
Unevaluated 
mining 
properties 
other projects Total
Cost
At 1 July 2013 12 1,463 40,737 – 12,514 5,796 60,522
Additions 16 – – – – 4,173 4,189
Finalisation of acquisition through business combinations
(a)
– 367 (2,625) 1,984 – – (274)
Transferred to property, plant and equipment
(b)
– – – – – (3,322) (3,322)
Transferred to inventory
(b)
– – – – – (6,589) (6,589)
Reclassification 58 – – – – (58) –
At 30 June 2014 86 1,830 38,112 1,984 12,514 – 54,526
Additions 66 – – – – 4,334 4,400
At 30 June 2015 152 1,830 38,112 1,984 12,514 4,334 58,926
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 July 2013 5 – – – 12,514 – 12,519
Charge in the year 32 – – 468 – – 500
At 30 June 2014 37 – – 468 12,514 – 13,019
Charge in the year 85 – – 331 – – 416
At 30 June 2015 122 – – 799 12,514 – 13,435
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 30 1,830 38,112 1,185 – 4,334 45,491
At 30 June 2014 49 1,830 38,112 1,516 – – 41,507
At 1 July 2013 7 1,463 40,737 – – 5,796 48,003
(a) During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Group finalised its review of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the acquisition of Fabergé Limited. All final fair 
value adjustments have been recognised as at 30 June 2014.
(b) In June 2014, the Gemfields plc Board of Directors concluded that the Montepuez ruby project no longer met the definition of an exploration and evaluation asset as defined under IFRS 6 and hence 
the relevant costs were reclassified from intangible unevaluated mining property to inventory and evaluated mining property.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, goodwill arose on the acquisition of Fabergé Limited.
The amount of depreciation of plant, machinery and motor vehicles capitalised as a part of unevaluated mining properties in the current year 
is US$ nil (2014: US$530,000) and has not been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Unevaluated mining properties – Zambian projects comprise Kamakanga emerald mine, Ndola Rural Emerald Restricted Area (“NRERA”) 
prospecting licences and the Jagoda option.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015 91 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Annual impairment review on intangibles
Goodwill of US$1,830,000 (2014: US$1,830,000) acquired through business combinations and trademarks with indefinite useful lives 
of US$38,112,000 has been allocated to the Fabergé CGU, which is also an operating and reportable segment.
As required under IAS 36, the Group performed its annual impairment review of the carrying value of the Fabergé CGU. The impairment 
review was based on the value-in-use. The value-in-use calculation exceeds the carrying value by US$112 million or 139%.
Assumptions
The value-in-use of the Fabergé CGU is represented by the discounted value of future cash flows that are expected from the continuous use 
of the assets associated with the Fabergé CGU and the terminal value attributable to them. It is the Directors’ view that the Fabergé brand 
has an indefinite useful life based on the long heritage and history of the Fabergé name. As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to 
extend the expected discounted expected future cash flows into perpetuity. The projected future cash flows used in the value-in-use 
calculation are based on budgets and forecasts approved by the Directors.
The revenue in the next five years is forecast to increase at growth rates initially of 80% falling to 25% between 2016 and 2020 (year five 
of the value-in-use model), following the introduction of new product lines, development of the timepiece collection and expansion of the 
wholesale network driven by an increase in the points of sale. As the ‘go-to’ jeweller in the coloured gemstone industry and starting from a 
relatively low revenue base Fabergé is in an excellent position to benefit from double digit growth in the coloured gemstone industry. From 
year six to year 20, the revenue is expected to increase at growth rates of between 10.0% and 18.4% year-on-year. The terminal value growth 
rate of 2.5% applied at the end of the forecast period is based on an average of the long-term inflation rates of the key markets in which 
Fabergé is expected to operate in the long term.
The average gross profit margin used in the value-in-use calculation is expected to remain around 50%. This figure is based on weighted 
margins across the retail and wholesale sales channels.
Centralised non-variable costs, such as payroll and rent are expected to increase at approximately 5% year-on-year. Cooperative advertising, 
where costs are shared between Fabergé and the wholesale partners, are expected to increase in line with the growth in wholesale revenue, 
with other marketing costs expected to increase in line with inflation.
The majority of revenue is currently derived from owned boutiques and events. As the sales mix moves towards increased wholesale customers 
and Fabergé sells a number of high value jewellery pieces, the working capital requirements are expected to decrease in real terms from year 
one to year 20.
 
For the purpose of the annual impairment test, the future cash flows were discounted using the nominal post-tax pre-finance discount rate of 
12% per annum. The discount rate is derived from Fabergé’s weighted average cost of capital. The discount rate represents the current market 
assessment of the risks specific to the Fabergé CGU, taking into consideration that Fabergé is part of the Gemfields Group, which is a 
profitable AIM-listed business. The pre-tax discount rate is 13%.
As part of the annual impairment review a sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions used in the model was performed. The 
value-in-use calculation is most sensitive to changes in the revenue growth rate from year six onwards and the discount rate. The implications 
at group level for changes to these key assumptions are discussed below:
• A decrease in revenue of 20% in years one to five and an associated reduction in directly attributable costs, followed by growth rates 
consistent with the original model in percentage terms, would not result in an impairment, however it would reduce the value-in-use by 
US$96 million or 50%.
• A decrease in the long term growth from 10% to 5% and an associated reduction in directly attributable costs would reduce the value-in-
use by US$101 million or 52%.
• An increase in the discount rate from 12% to 17% would not result in an impairment.
11 Intangible assets continued 92 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
12 Other non-current assets
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Loan receivable 4,676 –
Long-term receivable from Kariba Minerals Limited (joint venture) (note 13) 2,718 2,718
Property deposits 541 566
Other non-current assets 282 282
Total other non-current assets 8,217 3,566
The long-term receivable from Kariba Minerals Limited (“Kariba”), is shown net of a provision of US$1,481,000 (2014: US$1,481,000).
13 Interest in a joint venture
In thousands of US$ Joint venture
Cost
At 1 July 2013, 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 287
Impairment
At 1 July 2013, 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 (287)
Net book value
At 1 July 2013, 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 –
The Group holds a 50% interest in a joint venture Kariba. Kariba is incorporated and registered in Zambia and its nature of business is 
gemstone mining.
The Group’s share of the joint venture was:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Non-current assets 457 665
Current assets 409 289
Current liabilities (3,022) (1,757)
Non-current liabilities (1,446) (2,071)
Share of net liabilities (3,602) (2,874)
Revenue 900 336
Operating expenditure 758 491
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015 93 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
14 Investments
Subsidiary undertakings
Name
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration
Proportion of voting 
rights and ordinary share 
capital held in 2015
Proportion of voting 
rights and ordinary share 
capital held in 2014 Nature of business
Almizan Development Ltd BVI 100% 100% Non-trading
Cabo Delgado Mining Services Ltda Mozambique 100% 100% Gemstone mining and exploration
Campos de Joia, Limitada Mozambique 100% 100% Gemstone mining and exploration
Campos de la Gema S.A.S Colombia 100% – Holding company
Fabergé (UK) Limited (previously known as 
Fabergé Services Limited)
United Kingdom 100% 100% Advisory and administrative support in connection with the 
Fabergé UK activities
Fabergé Hospitality Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100% Non-trading
Fabergé Inc USA 100% 100% Retail activity and promotion of the Fabergé collection 
of jewellery and watches
Fabergé Limited Cayman Islands 100% 100% Holding company
Fabergé S.à.r.l. (liquidated 5 May 2015) Luxembourg – 100% Non-trading
Fabergé Suisse SA Switzerland 100% 100% Retail activity and promotion of the Fabergé collection of 
jewellery and watches
Forest HoldCo Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding company
Gemfields BVI Ltd BVI 100% 100% Holding company
Gemfields Canada Inc Canada 100% 100% Non-trading
Gemfields CdJ Mauritius Mauritius 100% 100% Holding and administrative services company
Gemfields Holdco India Ltd United Kingdom 100% 100% Non-trading
Gemfields Holdings Zambia Ltd Zambia 100% 100% Non-trading
Gemfields India Pvt Limited India 100% 100% Gemstone sales and marketing
Gemfields Mauritius Ltd Mauritius 100% 100% Holding and administrative services company
Gemfields Mining Limited Zambia 100% 100% Gemstone mining and exploration
Gemfields Participacoes Ltda Brazil 100% 100% Non-trading
Gemfields Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Gemstone auctions
Gemfields South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100% Gemstone sales and marketing
Gemfields Spain S.L Spain 100% – Holding company
Gemfields USA, Inc. USA 100% 100% Gemstone sales and marketing
Gemholds Brazil Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding company
Gemholds Colombia Limited United Kingdom 100% – Holding company
Gemholds Ethiopia Limited United Kingdom 100% – Holding company
Gemholds Ltd United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding company
Gemhouse Mining Zambia Limited Zambia 100% 100% Non-trading
Graphon Investments (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka 75% – Holding company
Graphon Mining Resources (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka 75% – Mineral resource studies
Hagura Mining Ltd United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding and administrative services company
Island HoldCo Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding company
Kagem Mining Limited Zambia 75% 75% Gemstone mining, exploration and processing
Mbuva Mining Ltd Zambia 100% 100% Non-trading
Megaruma Mining Limitada Mozambique 75% – Gemstone mining and exploration
Mkushi Tormaline Mining Ltd Zambia 75% 75% Non-trading
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada Mozambique 75% 75% Gemstone mining and exploration
Oriental Mining SARL Madagascar 100% 100% Gemstone mining and exploration
Peninsula HoldCo Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding company 94 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Name
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration
Proportion of voting 
rights and ordinary share 
capital held in 2015
Proportion of voting 
rights and ordinary share 
capital held in 2014 Nature of business
Ratnapura Lanka Gemstones (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka 75% – Gemstone trading
Singha Heavy Equipment (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka 75% – Dormant company
Singha Industrial Investments (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka 75% – Holding company
Web Gemstone Mining plc Ethiopia 75% – Gemstone mining and exploration
For all undertakings listed above, the country of operation is the same as its country of incorporation or registration with the exception of the 
following whose operations are in the United Kingdom:
• Fabergé Limited; and
• Fabergé Hospitality Limited
15 Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests that are material relate to the following subsidiaries:
Kagem Mining Limited (“Kagem”), a company incorporated in Zambia. Its principal operation is rough emerald mining, exploration and 
processing. The Government of the Republic of Zambia holds a 25% non-controlling interest.
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada (“Montepuez”), a company incorporated in Mozambique. Its principal operation is rough ruby mining 
and exploration. Mwiriti Limitada, a private company incorporated in Mozambique, holds a 25% non-controlling interest.
In thousands of US$
2015
Kagem
2015
Montepuez
2014
Kagem
2014
Montepuez
Amounts attributable to all shareholders:
Profit after tax 2,091 33,042 20,156 9,686
Cash generated from operating activities 25,841 40,671 48,487 4,646
Non-current assets 220,177 15,682 214,776 9,275
Amounts attributable to non-controlling interests:
Profit after tax 523 8,260 5,039 2,422
Dividends paid – 2,000 4,000 –
Equity 48,945 7,450 48,421 1,190
16 Inventory
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Rough and cut and polished gemstones 65,360 50,620
Fabergé inventory 35,776 35,637
Fuel and consumables 3,733 2,251
Total inventory 104,869 88,508
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
14 Investments continued 95 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
17 Trade and other receivables
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Trade receivables 18,882 15,027
VAT receivable 10,235 3,255
Prepayments 4,594 2,003
Other receivables 1,094 1,632
Total trade and other receivables 34,805 21,917
All amounts shown under trade and other receivables fall due for payment within one year. 
18 Borrowings
Current interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest rate Maturity
2015 
In thousands 
of US$
2014 
In thousands 
of US$
US$25,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 4.50% 2016 24,699 –
US$15,000,000 related party loan LIBOR + 4.50% 2015 – 9,936
US$15,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 4.75% 2016 – 5,085
Total current borrowings 24,699 15,021
Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest rate Maturity
2015
 In thousands 
of US$
2014 
In thousands 
of US$
US$15,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 4.75% 2016 – 1,677
US$20,000,000 revolving credit facility LIBOR + 4.50% 2017 20,000 –
Total non-current borrowings 20,000 1,677
US$25 million bank loan
In April 2015, Gemfields plc entered into a US$25 million term loan facility with Macquarie Corporate Holdings Pty Limited (UK Branch). 
The loan bears interest at a rate of 3 month US LIBOR plus 4.50%. The loan is repayable in regular instalments over a period of 12 months 
from the date of first drawdown of the loan.
Security for this loan comprises a floating charge over the jewellery and cut and polished gemstones of Fabergé (UK) Limited and 
Gemfields plc, as specified in the loan agreement. As at 30 June 2015, the carrying amount of inventories pledged as security for this loan 
amounted to US$42.2 million.
The loan was used to repay the US$15 million related party loan with Pallinghurst and to fund working capital requirements.
US$20 million revolving credit facility
In August 2014, Kagem Mining Limited entered into a US$20 million revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank Zambia plc. The facility 
bears interest at a rate of 3 month US LIBOR plus 4.50%. The facility is due for repayment 36 months after the date of the first drawdown 
of facility.
Security over the facility comprises a fixed and floating charge over all of Kagem’s net assets, equivalent to the total amount outstanding 
under the facility and a corporate guarantee from Gemfields plc. The facility of US$20 million was used to mainly pay the contractor 
undertaking the removal of waste in the Chama pit of the Kagem mine and to fund working capital requirements.
US$15 million party loan
The US$15 million related party loan outstanding as at 30 June 2014 was repaid in full during the year, as described in note 26. 96 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Borrowings entered into after the reporting period
Two debt financing facilities of US$10 million each were entered into in August 2015. These facilities are with Barclays Bank Mauritius 
Limited and Pallinghurst Resources Limited (“Pallinghurst”) respectively. 
A US$10 million facility, in addition to the existing US$20 million long-term revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank Zambia plc, was 
entered into with Barclays Bank Mauritius Limited. Interest for the new facility is at the rate of 3 month US Dollar LIBOR plus 4.50% as 
per the terms for existing facility with Barclays Bank Zambia plc. The debenture and mortgage for the new facility ranks pari passu with the 
existing facility. The purpose of the loan is for the continuous support of the overburden removal and financing of capital expenditure and 
working capital requirements.
A US$10 million financing facility was entered into with Pallinghurst, the facility is a short term, unsecured loan facility which has a 
maturity date of 15 December 2015. The facility bears an interest of 3 month US Dollar LIBOR plus 4.50%. The facility will be used  
for inventory investment, working capital and general business purposes.
19 Other non-current liabilities
In thousands of US$
LTIP liability 
in Fabergé 
sub-group
Environmental 
restoration 
provision
Other 
provisions
Total 
provisions
Other non-current liabilities
At 1 July 2013 247 904 1,310 2,461
Cash-settled awards lapsed (26) – – (26)
Additions in the year – 487 808 1,295
At 30 June 2014 221 1,391 2,118 3,730
Movement during the year – 1,201 (1,492) (291)
Cash-settled awards lapsed (106) – – (106)
At 30 June 2015 115 2,592 626 3,333
Fabergé sub-group LTIP
The Fabergé sub-group operates a cash-settled share-based remuneration scheme.
Environmental restoration
The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the 
development or ongoing production of a mining property. A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs, based on management’s 
best estimate of the legal and constructive obligations incurred. These estimates reflect industry best practice and currently applicable legislation. 
Significant changes in legislation could result in changes in provisions recognised. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period 
in excess of 20 years.
Other provisions
The other non-current provisions primarily consist of employee end of contract benefits and are payable in three years’ time.
20 Trade and other payables
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Trade payables 13,239 8,566
Other payables 12,044 12,351
Total trade and other payables 25,283 20,917
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
18 Borrowings continued 97 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
21 Share capital
2015 2014
Number 
of shares
In thousands 
of US$
Number 
of shares
In thousands 
of US$
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 July 540,808,209 9,570 540,003,208 9,557
Issued during the year 2,838,521 44 805,001 13
At 30 June 543,646,730 9,614 540,808,209 9,570
Share capital is denominated in Pounds Sterling. Details of the share option scheme are set out in note 22.
22 Share-based payments
Share option scheme
The share capital of the Company is denominated in Pounds Sterling. Therefore, the following disclosures are presented in Pounds Sterling 
and US Dollars.
On 1 January 2015, 6,730,000 (1 January 2014: 5,800,000 and 14 November 2013: 400,000) share options were granted to the Directors 
and key employees of the Company. One third of the options granted vests at 31 December each year over a three-year period, during which 
the grantee has to remain in employment.
The total expense recognised during the year ended 30 June 2015 arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 
US$2,206,000 (2014: US$1,787,000).
At 30 June 2015, the following share options have been granted and are outstanding in respect of the ordinary shares:
Number of options
Exercise price
Outstanding at 
1 July 2014 Granted Forfeited Exercised
Outstanding 
at 30 June 2015 Final exercise date
12¢ (8p) 7,271,664 – – (516,665) 6,754,999 December 2020
32¢ (20p) 3,244,999 – – (545,001) 2,699,998 December 2021
46¢ (29p) 6,800,000 – (263,332) (1,012,748) 5,523,920 December 2022
51¢ (32p) 400,000 – – – 400,000 November 2023
56¢ (34p) 5,800,000 – (874,998) (514,107) 4,410,895 December 2023
75¢ (48p) – 6,730,000 (810,000) – 5,920,000 December 2024
Total 23,516,663 6,730,000 (1,948,330) (2,588,521) 25,709,812
The options exercisable at 30 June 2015 were 15,227,796 (2014: 11,868,331).
The exercise price of options outstanding at 30 June 2015 ranged between 8p and 48p (2014: 8p and 34p) and their weighted average 
contractual life was 7.5 years (2014: 8.0 years). The weighted average exercise price for options issued to Directors was 37¢ (22p) (2014: 27¢ 
(17p)). The weighted average share price (at the date of exercise) of options exercised during the year was 95¢ (57p) (2014: 62¢ (38p)).
The cash that may be received upon exercise of the options that are outstanding at the year end is estimated to be US$11,228,000 
(2014: US$9,015,000). 98 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
At 30 June 2014, the following share options had been granted and are outstanding in respect of the ordinary shares:
Number of options
Exercise price
Outstanding at 1 July 
2013 Granted Reissued Forfeited Exercised
Outstanding at 30 June 
2014 Final exercise date
12¢ (8p) 7,674,997 – 100,000 – (503,333) 7,271,664 December 2020
32¢ (20p) 3,415,000 – – – (170,001) 3,244,999 December 2021
46¢ (29p) 9,265,000 – – (2,333,333) (131,667) 6,800,000 December 2022
51¢ (32p) – 400,000 – – – 400,000 November 2023
56¢ (34p) – 5,800,000 – – – 5,800,000 December 2023
Total 20,354,997 6,200,000 100,000 (2,333,333) (805,001) 23,516,663
The fair values of the options are calculated using the Black-Scholes method. The number of options granted in 2015 is 6,730,000 (2014: 
6,200,000). Assumptions used in this model for the 12 months ended 30 June were:
Issue date
January 
2015
January 
2014
November 
2013
January 
2013
January 
2012
January 
2011
Fair value at measurement date 36¢ (23p) 36¢ (21p) 36¢ (22p) 27¢ (18p) 59¢ (38p) 30¢ (19p)
Exercise price 75¢ (48p) 56¢ (34p) 51¢ (32p) 46¢ (29p) 32¢ (20p) 12¢ (8p)
Share price at date of grant 71¢ (46p) 56¢ (34p) 51¢ (32p) 52¢ (34p) 37¢ (23p) 24¢ (15p)
Expected volatility 40.10% 50.28% 51.71% 41.62% 55.00% 55.00%
Option life 10 years 10 years 10 years 10 years 10 years 10 years
Expected dividends – – – – – –
Risk free interest rate (based on Bank of England rate) 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50%
The expected volatility was based on the historical volatility data of Gemfields plc shares.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
22 Share-based payments continued 99 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
23 Financial instruments
The principal financial instruments used by the Group are as follows:
Financial assets
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Financial assets measured at fair value:
Available-for-sale investments 40 270
Total financial assets at fair value 40 270
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets
(a)
7,935 3,284
Trade and other receivables
(b)
30,211 19,914
Cash and cash equivalents 27,973 36,837
Total financial assets measured at amortised cost 66,119 60,035
Total financial assets 66,159 60,305
(a) Other non-current assets excludes property lease premium.
(b) Trade and other receivables excludes prepayments.
The available-for-sale investments are Level 1, for which quoted prices on active market are available.
Financial liabilities
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Held at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables
(a)
24,377 20,917
Borrowings 44,699 16,698
Total financial liabilities held at amortised cost 69,076 37,615
(a) Trade and other payables excludes social security.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
At 30 June 2015 and 2014, the carrying value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities approximated their fair values.
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. The Directors have overall responsibility to determine the risk 
management objectives and policies of the Group. While retaining the ultimate responsibility for them, the Directors have delegated the 
authority for designing and operating processes that ensure the effective implementation of these objectives and policies to the finance 
function of the Group. The Directors regularly review the effectiveness of the processes put in place and, when required, approve specific 
policies and procedures designed to mitigate the financial risks. 100 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
There have been no substantive changes in the Group’s exposure to financial instruments risks other than stated in the note.
The principal financial instruments used by the Group, from which financial risk arises, are as described below:
• cash and cash equivalents;
• trade and other receivables;
• available-for-sale investments;
• trade and other payables; and
• borrowings.
Credit risk on non-current receivables
The Group has non-current receivables due from entities engaged in mining related activities. Repayment of these receivables is dependent on 
the borrowers performing as expected in the mine plans and generating sufficient cash flows to repay the loan balances due to the Group.
Credit risk on trade receivables
The Group has low credit risk because it does not ship gemstones sold at auction to customers until payment has been received. There is a 
receivable balance at the end of the year relating to cut and polished emerald sales and rough rubies and corundum sold at auction.
Credit risk in relation to the Fabergé segment is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet 
its contractual obligations. Fabergé is mainly exposed to credit risk from credit sales. It is Fabergé policy to assess the credit risk of new 
customers before entering into contracts. 
The Group impaired receivables during the year for the amount of US$ nil (2014: US$ nil). The Group considers there to be no material 
difference between fair value of trade and other receivables and their carrying amount in the Statement of Financial Position.
Maximum exposure to credit risk
The Group’s maximum exposure of trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents to credit risk is its carrying amount.
Cash and cash equivalents
In relation to its cash and cash equivalents, the Group has to manage its currency exposures and the credit risk associated with the credit 
quality of the financial institutions in which the Group maintains its cash resources.
Under the treasury policy of the Group, approved by the Board and operated by the finance function, the corporate head office in London 
acts as the treasury centre of the Group. Business units maintain the minimum cash balances required by their operations. No cash resources 
controlled by the corporate treasury can be held with financial institutions with credit ratings lower than A–.
At 30 June 2015, 77% (2014: 88%) of the cash balance was held by Barclays Bank and the remaining 23% (2014: 12%) was held by other 
financial institutions.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
23 Financial instruments continued 101 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt 
instruments. It represents the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations.
The Group’s policy is to ensure that it will always have sufficient cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. To achieve this 
aim, the Group seeks to maintain cash balances and agreed facilities at levels considered appropriate to meet ongoing obligations.
The Group maintains an integrated business performance and cash flow forecasting model, incorporating financial position information, 
which is updated monthly.
The Group performance against budget and associated cash flow forecast is evaluated on a monthly basis. The Directors receive rolling 
12-month cash flow projections on a monthly basis as well as information regarding cash balances and Group performance against budget. 
At the reporting date, these projections indicated that the Group expected to have sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations under all 
reasonably expected circumstances.
The following table illustrates the contractual maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities, including the liabilities that must be settled 
gross, based where relevant, on interest rates and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
In thousands of US$
Trade and 
other 
payables Borrowings Total
At 30 June 2015
In one month 18,250 – 18,250
Between one and six months 6,127 10,919 17,046
Between six months and one year – 15,328 15,328
Between one year and three years – 21,650 21,650
24,377 47,897 72,274
At 30 June 2014
In one month – – –
Between one and six months 20,917 – 20,917
Between six months and one year – 15,636 15,636
Between one year and three years – 1,677 1,677
20,917 17,313 38,230
Interest rate risk
The Group predominately borrows bank funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements. Details of the 
interest rates on borrowing are disclosed in note 18.
Currency risk
Foreign exchange risk is inherent in the Group’s activities and is accepted as such. The majority of the Group’s costs are denominated in US$ 
or Pounds Sterling and hence the Group holds the majority of its cash in these currencies.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on payments for goods and services made to the local suppliers in the jurisdictions of its operations. 
It is the Group’s policy not to hedge this currency risk exposure.
23 Financial instruments continued 102 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
At 30 June 2015 and 2014 the Group’s financial assets and liabilities were denominated in the following currencies:
In thousands of US$
UK Pounds 
Sterling US$ Euro
Zambian 
Kwacha
Indian 
Rupees
Mozambican 
metical
Other 
currencies Total
At 30 June 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 274 16,485 49 190 3,827 7,054 94 27,973
Other non-current assets – 3,259 – – – – 4,676 7,935
Trade and other receivables 3,666 17,106 – 6,607 – 2,522 310 30,211
Borrowings – (44,699) – – – – – (44,699)
Trade and other payables (5,865) (12,468) – (855) – (2,826) (2,363) (24,377)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (1,925) (20,317) 49 5,942 3,827 6,750 2,717 (2,957)
At 30 June 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 390 35,505 349 186 417 (295) 285 36,837
Long-term deposit – 566 – – – – – 566
Long-term receivable from Kariba 
Minerals Limited (joint venture) – 2,718 – – – – – 2,718
Trade and other receivables 1,021 10,550 – 4,643 3,441 – 259 19,914
Borrowings – (16,698) – – – – – (16,698)
Trade and other payables (3,750) (8,645) (190) (1,688) (1,785) (425) (4,434) (20,917)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (2,339) 23,996 159 3,141 2,073 (720) (3,890) 22,420
Other market price risk
The Group generates revenue from the sale of rough and cut and polished gemstones as well as wholesale and retail sales of the gemstones and 
jewellery in the Fabergé business. The significant number of variables involved in determining the selling prices of gemstones, such as uniqueness 
of each individual gemstone, the colour of the rough material and the ruling US$ spot rate at the date of sale make it difficult to accurately 
extrapolate the impact of fluctuations in prices would have on the Group’s revenue.
Capital
The Group seeks to maintain sufficient capital to enable its growth and safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern. Capital is defined 
as share capital, share premium, merger reserve, option reserve and cumulative translation reserve.
The primary objective of the Group is maximising shareholder value, which from the capital perspective is achieved by maintaining the 
capital structure that is most suited to the Group’s size, strategy and underlying business risk. Currently, Gemfields plc has not paid 
dividends, focusing instead on delivering capital growth.
The Group manages its capital adequacy structure by the issues of ordinary shares, raising debt finance where appropriate and managing 
Group cash and cash equivalents.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
23 Financial instruments continued 103 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
24 Capital commitments
At 30 June 2015, Group had the following capital commitments:
(a) US$ nil (2014: US$4,690,000) for the purchase of mining equipment in Kagem;
(b) US$3,200,000 (2014: US$26,294,000) for the overburden removal in Kagem; and
(c) US$4,400,000 (2014: US$3,578,000) for the purchase of mining equipment and mine camp expansion in Montepuez.
25 Commitments under operating leases
The Company has total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Not later than one year 1,841 1,913
Later than one year but not later than five years 1,093 2,071
Later than five years – –
2,934 3,984
Total future minimum payments mostly relate to rent of the offices in London and New York as well as rent of space for Fabergé 
boutiques worldwide.
26 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party
Ultimate controlling party
The Group does not have an ultimate controlling party or parent company.
The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. (“PRF”) owns a see-through interest of 47.62% in Gemfields plc as at 30 June 2015. This interest gives 
PRF significant influence over the Group. In addition, PRF shares an affiliation with certain other Gemfields plc shareholders including 
NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. and Investec Pallinghurst (Cayman) L.P., as all share the same investment manager, Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P.
Gemfields plc and PRF entered into an updated relationship agreement in August 2013 which governs the relationship between the Group 
and PRF and clarifies that the Group is managed autonomously and operates for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole, rather than solely 
for the benefit of PRF or any of its affiliates.
All transactions with related parties for years ending 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 were carried out at arm’s length.
Loan balance with Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Group entered into a US$15 million loan facility with PRF. During the current year US$5 million 
(2014: US$10 million) was drawn down, with arrangement fees of US$100,000 (2014: US$200,000) being charged by PRF. Interest of 
US$527,000 (2014: US$97,000) was charged on the loan. The loan balance and interest due was repaid in full during the year ended 30 June 
2015. The balance outstanding as 30 June 2015 was US$ nil (2014: US$10,097,000).
Balance with Kariba Minerals Limited
As at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014, the Group held a receivable of US$2,718,000 (2014: US$2,718,000) which represents a historic 
receivable of US$4,199,000 less a provision of US$1,481,000. Kariba Minerals Limited is a joint venture in which the Group hold a 
50% shareholding. 104 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Transactions with Pallinghurst Advisors LLP
During the year the Group recharged services to Pallinghurst Advisors LLP amounting to US$71,000 (2014: US$82,000). Pallinghurst 
Advisors LLP recharged services to the Group amounting to US$197,000 (2014: US$578,000). As at 30 June 2015 the net balance due from 
Pallinghurst Advisors LLP was US$18,000 (2014: payable due to Pallinghurst Advisors LLP US$45,000).
Pallinghurst Advisors LLP is based in the United Kingdom and acts as an investment adviser to Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. which is 
based in the Cayman Islands. Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. acts as investment manager to some of the Group’s largest shareholders.
All transactions with related parties for years ending 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 were carried out at arm’s length.
27 Events after the reporting period
September 2015 emerald and beryl auction
From 31 August to 4 September 2015, after the end of the financial year, an auction of higher quality emerald was held in Singapore and 
yielded aggregate revenues of US$34.7 million, the third highest aggregate revenue achieved for higher quality emerald of this nature.
Acquisitions
Colombia
In September 2015, Gemfields announced binding but conditional agreements to acquire controlling interests in two emerald projects with 
operations and prospects located predominantly in the Boyacá state in Colombia.
The first project relates to the Coscuez Emerald Mine in the Boyacá department, Colombia and is the acquisition of a 70% interest in a 
Colombian company which will, on completion, hold mining contract no. 122-95M (the “Coscuez Licence”, which is presently held by 
Esmeracol S.A.). Located on the ‘Muzo formation’, the Coscuez Licence covers an area of 47 hectares, with the Coscuez mine – one of 
history’s more significant emerald deposits – having been in operation for over 25 years and known to have produced some of the finest 
emeralds from Colombia. Geological due diligence studies were carried out by Gemfields between October 2013 and August 2014. 
The Coscuez Licence includes exclusive rights for the exploration, construction and mining of emerald deposits granted by the Government 
of the Republic of Colombia within the area historically known as the ‘Coscuez mine’ in the municipality of San Pablo de Borbur, Department 
of Boyacá. Under the terms of the transaction agreements, Esmeracol S.A. will transfer the Coscuez Licence to a newly incorporated Colombian 
company (“Coscuez NewCo”) and Gemfields will, at completion, acquire an indirect 70% interest in Coscuez NewCo by way of a purchase 
of shares in a new holding company of Coscuez NewCo. The geological due diligence studies carried out by Gemfields included geological 
mapping of all accessible underground excavations and tunnels (about 36 of which total 25 linear kilometres), 3D ore body modelling of the 
mapped information, sampling and analysis of mine face samples and satellite imagery studies. International geological and mining consultants 
ACA Howe were engaged to provide a technical report and conduct associated due diligence matters. The total consideration payable under the 
share purchase agreement is US$15 million as follows: a first tranche of US$7 .5 million on completion of the share purchase and transfer 
of licence of which US$5 million is payable in cash and US$2.5 million is payable in Gemfields’ shares with a three year lock-in period); a second 
tranche of US$2.5 million on the first anniversary of completion; a third and fourth tranche of US$2.5 million each upon attainment of agreed 
cumulative revenue targets. Completion is expected to occur by first quarter of calendar year 2016.
The second project relates to selected exploration prospects held by ISAM Europa S.L. via the acquisition of 75% and 70% interests in two 
Colombian companies holding rights in respect of mining licence applications and assigned concession contracts respectively.
Notes Forming Part of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
26 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party continued 105 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
The second project comprises a number of new licence applications and assignments to existing concession contracts administered by 
the Colombian Mining Agency. The assignees of, and the applicants for, the mining licences are a number of Colombian companies 
(“ProjectCos”) indirectly controlled by ISAM Europa S.L. Gemfields is acquiring on completion indirect 75% and 70% interests in two 
holding companies which house the assorted ProjectCos. The total package of mining licence applications and assigned concession contracts 
cover approximately 20,000 hectares in the Boyacá and other regions, and comprise mostly greenfield sites although small scale mining has 
occurred in some of the licence areas. Eight of the applications and assignments have been approved and issued. The remaining assignments 
and applications are being reviewed by the Colombian Mining Agency. The total consideration payable by Gemfields under the share 
purchase agreement is US$7.5 million as follows: a first tranche of US$450,000 paid on completion of the share acquisition; a second tranche 
payable upon the granting of certain licence applications and/or the assignment of certain concession contracts; a third tranche payable when 
bulk sampling commences on certain licence areas; a fourth tranche payable on the commencement of commercial mining; and a fifth and 
sixth tranche (which comprise more than 50% of the total consideration payable) upon attainment of agreed cumulative revenue targets.
Borrowings entered into after the reporting period
Two debt financing facilities of US$10 million each were entered into in August 2015. These facilities are with Barclays Bank Mauritius 
Limited and Pallinghurst Resources Limited (“Pallinghurst”) respectively. 
A US$10 million facility, in addition to the existing US$20 million long-term revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank Zambia plc, was 
entered into with Barclays Bank Mauritius Limited. Interest for the new facility is at the rate of 3 month US Dollar LIBOR plus 4.50% as 
per the terms for existing facility with Barclays Bank Zambia plc. The debenture and mortgage for the new facility ranks pari passu with the 
existing facility. The purpose of the loan is for the continuous support of the overburden removal and financing of capital expenditure and 
working capital requirements.
A US$10 million financing facility was entered into with Pallinghurst, the facility is a short term, unsecured loan facility which has a 
maturity date of 15 December 2015. The facility bears an interest of 3 month US Dollar LIBOR plus 4.50%. The facility will be used for 
inventory investment, working capital and general business purposes.
27 Events after the reporting period continued 106 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Parent Company Statement of Financial Position
In thousands of US$ Note 2015 2014
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 434 156
Available-for-sale investments 40 270
Investments in subsidiaries 6 213,127 212,972
Deferred tax asset 12 5,048 3,403
Other non-current assets 7 30,414 2,507
Total non-current assets 249,063 219,308
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 8 68,044 84,272
Inventory 9 10,958 3,209
Cash and cash equivalents 2,327 3,119
Total current assets 81,329 90,600
Total assets 330,392 309,908
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 10 (11,070) (16,617)
Borrowings 11 (24,699) (9,936)
Total current liabilities (35,769) (26,553)
Total assets less current liabilities 294,623 283,355
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 13 9,614 9,570
Share premium 98,404 97,379
Merger reserve 207,986 207,986
Option reserve 5,179 4,130
Retained deficit (26,560) (35,710)
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 294,623 283,355
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board on 6 October 2015 and signed on its behalf by
Devidas Shetty / Chief Operating Officer
Gemfields plc
Registered number: 05129023
The notes on pages 109 to 115 form part of these Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position
At 30 June 2015 107 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
In thousands of US$
Share 
capital
Share 
premium
Merger 
reserve
Option 
reserve
Retained 
deficit
Total 
equity
Balance at 1 July 2013 9,557 97,214 207,986 2,736 (48,228) 269,265
Profit for the year – – – – 12,125 12,125
Issue of shares 13 165 – (201) 201 178
Share-based payments – – – 1,787 – 1,787
Share options forfeited – – – (192) 192 –
Balance at 30 June 2014 9,570 97,379 207,986 4,130 (35,710) 283,355
Profit for the year – – – – 7,993 7,993
Issue of shares 44 1,025 – (684) 684 1,069
Share-based payments – – – 2,206 – 2,206
Share options forfeited – – – (473) 473 –
Balance at 30 June 2015 9,614 98,404 207,986 5,179 (26,560) 294,623
The nature and purpose of each reserve within Statement of Changes in Equity is described as follows:
Reserve Description and purpose
Share capital Amount subscribed for share capital at nominal value.
Share premium Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Merger reserve The difference between the fair value of the shares issued as consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries in 
excess of the nominal value of the shares, where 90% or more of shares are acquired.
Option reserve Cumulative fair value of options charged to the Income Statement.
Retained deficit Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Income Statement.
The notes on pages 109 to 115 form part of these Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 30 June 2015 108 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows
In thousands of US$ Note 2015 2014
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year after tax 4 7,993 12,125
Depreciation and amortisation 5 60 67
Taxation 12 (1,645) (2,732)
Share-based payments 17 2,206 1,787
Finance income (1,270) (701)
Finance expense 1,142 136
Impairment charge on investments – 252
Profit on sale of available-for-sale investments (193) –
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 12,709 (24,049)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other payables (5,547) 678
(Increase)/decrease in inventory 9 (7,749) 2,131
Cash generated from/(used for) operations 7,706 (10,306)
Taxation paid 12 – (671)
Net cash generated from/(used for) operating activities 7,706 (10,977)
Cash flows from investing activities
Investment in subsidiaries (155) –
Interest received 463 701
Dividends received 885 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5 (338) (125)
Sale/(purchase) of available-for-sale investments 423 (40)
Loan granted to Kariba Minerals Limited (joint venture) – (224)
Loans granted to subsidiaries (24,466) –
Net cash generated from/(used for) investing activities (23,188) 312
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of ordinary shares 1,069 178
Interest and other finance cost paid (966) –
Repayment of borrowings (15,000)
Arrangements fees paid on borrowings (413) (200)
Proceeds from borrowing 30,000 10,000
Net cash generated from financing activities 14,690 9,978
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (792) (687)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 3,119 3,806
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,327 3,119
The notes on pages 109 to 115 form part of these Parent Company Financial Statements.
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 30 June 2015 109 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
1 Basis of preparation
These Financial Statements represent the individual Parent Company (the “Parent Company”).
The Financial Statements of the Parent Company for the year ended 30 June 2015 have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations (collectively “IFRS”) issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) as adopted by European Union (the “EU”) and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
The Parent Company’s Financial Statements are presented in United States Dollars (“US$”) and all values are rounded to the nearest 
thousand (US$’000), except when otherwise indicated.
The IFRS Financial Statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting standards, interpretations and amendments effective at the 
beginning of the accounting period on 1 July 2014. New standards, amendments and interpretations effective in the year ended 30 June 2015 
and standards, amendments and interpretations, which are effective for reporting periods beginning after the date of these Financial 
Statements, which have not been adopted early, are described in detail in the Group’s accounting policy on the pages 74 and 83 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
2 Accounting policies
In addition to the accounting policies in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the following accounting policies are relevant only 
to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Unlisted investments are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Parent Company’s accounting policies, which are described above and in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the Directors have made judgements, estimations and assumptions regarding the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events 
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In the future, actual experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The judgements, estimations and assumptions that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements are 
detailed below.
Value of the investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provision for impairment. Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by 
reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 110 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 
3 Employees and Directors
2015 2014
Administration staff (including Directors) 36 28
Average number of employees (including Directors) 32 23
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Gross salaries (including Directors) 9,194 7,282
Social security costs 875 874
10,069 8,156
Details of Directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 65.
4 Profit for the year
The Parent Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its 
Income Statement in these Financial Statements. The Parent Company’s profit after tax for the year ended 30 June 2015 is US$7,993,000 
(2014: US$12,125,000).
5 Property, plant and equipment
In thousands of US$
Total fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
Cost
At 1 July 2013 226
Additions 125
At 30 June 2014 351
Additions 338
At 30 June 2015 689
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2013 128
Provided during the year 67
At 30 June 2014 195
Provided during the year 60
At 30 June 2015 255
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 434
At 30 June 2014 156
At 1 July 2013 98
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015 111 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 
6 Investments in subsidiaries
In thousands of US$
Unlisted 
investments
Cost
At 1 July 2013 222,240
Additions in the year –
At 30 June 2014 222,240
Additions in the year 155
At 30 June 2015 222,395
Provision for impairment
At 1 July 2013 (9,268)
At 30 June 2014 (9,268)
At 30 June 2015 (9,268)
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 213,127
At 30 June 2014 212,972
At 1 July 2013 212,972
Subsidiary undertakings
The list of subsidiary undertakings is disclosed in the note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Joint operations and other listed investments
Details of the joint venture investment in Kariba Minerals Limited are disclosed in the note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statement above.
7 Other non-current assets
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Amounts due from Group companies
(a)
27,907 –
Amounts due from joint venture 2,507 2,507
Total other non-current assets 30,414 2,507
(a) In July 2014 the Company entered into a loan facility agreement with its 100% owned subsidiaries Fabergé (UK) Limited and Fabergé Limited. The applicable interest rate is 3 month US LIBOR 
plus 4.50%. The total loan balance receivable as at 30 June 2015 was US$27,907,000. The loan is unsecured.
8 Trade and other receivables
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Amounts due from Group companies 65,355 81,976
Trade receivables 723 480
Other receivables and prepayments 1,966 1,816
Total trade and other receivables 68,044 84,272
All amounts shown under other receivables and prepayments fall due for payment within one year. 112 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
9 Inventory
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Rough gemstones 6,174 1,582
Cut and polished gemstones 4,784 1,627
Total inventory 10,958 3,209
10 Trade and other payables
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Trade payables 2,115 1,034
Accruals and other payables 5,783 4,340
Amounts due to Group companies 3,172 11,243
Total trade and other payables 11,070 16,617
Amounts due to Group companies relate to recharges. The balance is payable on demand and is non-interest bearing.
11 Borrowings
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Interest bearing bank loan 24,699 –
Interest bearing loan from related party – 9,936
Total borrowings 24,699 9,936
Details of the borrowings are disclosed in note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
12 Current and deferred tax
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Current tax – 671
Deferred tax (1,645) (3,403)
Total tax credit (1,645) (2,732)
Profit for the year 6,348 9,393
Expected tax charge based on the standard rate of the UK Corporation tax  
at the domestic rate of 21% (2014: 21%) 1,333 1,973
Adjusted for the effect of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 203 409
Group dividends not taxable (3,016) (2,520)
Movement in tax losses formerly not recognised – (3,403)
Tax losses generated in the period – 99
Movement in tax losses recognised for deferred tax (91) –
Movement in other temporary differences not recognised (74) (14)
Foreign withholding tax – 671
Non-deductible investment write off – 53
Total tax credit (1,645) (2,732)
The main rate of corporation tax fell from 21% to 20% as from 1 April 2015.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015 113 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the balance sheet liability method. Temporary differences are differences 
between the tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the balance sheet. The tax base of an asset or liability is the amount 
attributed to that asset or liability for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised in relation to temporary differences which would give rise to deferred tax assets where it is considered 
probable that those temporary differences will be utilised in the foreseeable future, and therefore the asset is recoverable.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
At 1 July 3,403 –
Tax losses recognised in the Income Statement in the year 1,645 3,403
At 30 June 5,048 3,403
13 Share capital
2015 2014
Number 
of shares
In thousands 
of US$
Number 
of shares
In thousands 
of US$
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 July 540,808,209 9,570 540,003,208 9,557
Issued during the year 2,838,521 44 805,001 13
At 30 June 543,646,730 9,614 540,808,209 9,570
Details of the share option scheme are disclosed in note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
14 Financial instruments
The principal financial instruments used by the Parent Company are detailed below:
Financial assets
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Financial assets measured at fair value:
Available-for-sale investments 40 270
Total financial assets measured at fair value 40 270
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Trade receivables and other receivables
(a)
1,585 1,327
Amounts due from Group companies 93,262 81,976
Long-term receivable from Kariba Minerals Limited (joint venture) 2,507 2,507
Cash and cash equivalents 2,327 3,119
Total financial assets measured at amortised cost 99,681 88,929
Total financial assets 99,721 89,199
(a) Trade receivables and other receivables excludes prepayments.
12 Current and deferred tax continued 114 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
The available-for-sale investments that are within the scope of IFRS 7 are Level 1, for which quoted prices on active market are available.
Financial liabilities
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Trade payables and other payables
(a)
7,636 5,374
Amounts due to Group companies 3,172 11,243
Borrowings 24,699 9,936
Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 35,507 26,553
(a) Trade and other payables excludes social security.
The risks that the Company is subject to in addition to the Group risks described in note 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements are set 
out below:
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company.
The Company is also subject to credit risk on the amounts due from Group companies (see notes 7 and 8).
15 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party
All transactions with related parties for years ending 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 were carried out at arm’s length.
Loan balance with Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Company entered into a US$15 million loan facility with Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. 
(“PRF”). During the current year US$5 million (2014: US$10 million) was drawn down, with arrangement fees of US$100,000 (2014: 
US$200,000) being charged by PRF. Interest of US$527,000 (2014: US$97,000) was charged on the loan. The loan balance and interest 
due was repaid in full during the year ended 30 June 2015. The balance outstanding as 30 June 2015 was US$ nil (2014: US$10,097,000).
Balance with Kariba Minerals Limited
As at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014, the Company held a receivable of US$2,507,000 from Kariba Minerals Limited (a joint venture) 
in respect of operating and capital expenditure.
Transactions with Pallinghurst Advisors LLP
During the year the Company recharged services to Pallinghurst Advisors LLP amounting to US$71,000 (2014: US$82,000). Pallinghurst 
Advisors LLP recharged services to the group amounting to US$181,000 (2014: US$578,000). As at 30 June 2015 the net balance due from 
Pallinghurst Advisors LLP was US$18,000 (2014: payable due to Pallinghurst Advisors LLP 45,000).
Pallinghurst Advisors LLP is based in the United Kingdom and acts as an investment adviser to Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. which 
is based in the Cayman Islands. Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. acts as investment manager to some of the Group’s largest shareholders.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2015
14 Financial instruments continued 115 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Transactions with Subsidiaries
The Company charged management, auction and marketing fees to subsidiaries amounting to US$19,313,000 (2014: US$11,960,000).
The Company generated revenue of US$9,586,000 (2014: 21,404,000) from the sale of rough and cut and polished gemstones to subsidiaries 
during the year.
The Company made purchases of rough and cut and polished gemstones from its subsidiaries of US$9,775,000 (2014: US$3,174,000) during 
the year.
16 Commitments under operating leases
The Parent Company had total future commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:
In thousands of US$ 2015 2014
Not later than one year 113 284
Later than one year but not later than five years – 84
113 368
Operating leases relate to rent of the main UK offices.
17 Share-based payments
Details of share-based payments are disclosed in note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
18 Events after the reporting period
Post reporting period events are described in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
15 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party continued 116 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Financial Statements / Company Contacts and Advisers
Company Contacts and Advisers
Registered Office
Gemfields plc
23 King Street
London, SW1Y 6QY
United Kingdom
+44 (0) 207 518 3402
Company registration number: 05129023
Company Secretary
JJ Williams
Gemfields plc
23 King Street
London, SW1Y 6QY
United Kingdom
+44 (0) 207 659 4965
 
Financial Public Relations Adviser
Tavistock Communications 
131 Finsbury Pavement 
London 
EC2A 1NT
+44 (0) 207 920 3150
 
Nominated Adviser
Grant Thornton UK LLP
30 Finsbury Square
London
EC2P 2YU
+44 (0) 207 383 5100
 
Joint Brokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5JP
+44 (0) 207 742 4000
BMO Capital Markets Limited
95 Queen Victoria Street
London
EC4V 4HG
+44 (0) 207 236 1010
Macquarie Capital (Europe) Limited
Ropemaker Place
28 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9HD
+44 (0) 203 037 2000
External Auditors
BDO LLP
55 Baker Street
London 
W1U 7EU
+44 (0) 207 486 5888  Gemfields plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Gemfields plc
23 King Street
London, SW1Y 6QY
United Kingdom
www.gemfields.co.uk
