 ANNUAL REPORT 2015
  We are a leading integrated 
producer and marketer 
of commodities operating 
around the world. 
Our commodities comprise 
metals and minerals, 
energy products and 
agricultural products.
Strategic  
report
01 Highlights
04 Chief Executive Officer’s review
06 Who we are
08  A global diversified 
natural resource company
10 Our business model
14 Our strategy
18 Sustainable development
26 Key performance indicators
28 Principal risks and uncertainties 
36 Financial review
42 Business review
 – Metals and minerals
 – Energy products
 – Agricultural products 
Governance
70  Chairman’s introduction, 
Directors and Officers
75 Corporate governance report
89 Directors’ remuneration report
95 Directors’ report
Additional  
information
Further details on our sustainability approach and 
performance can be found in our annual sustainability 
report and on our website www.glencore.com/sustainability
181 Glossary
185  Production by quarter –  
Q4 2014 to Q4 2015
192 Resources and reserves
201 Shareholder information
202 Forward looking statements
Fi na nc ia l  
statements
102 Independent Auditor’s Report
110  Consolidated statement of  
(loss)/income
111  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive (loss)/income
112  Consolidated statement of  
financial position
113 Consolidated statement of cash flows
115  Consolidated statement of changes  
of equity
116 Notes to the financial statements 01 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Highlights
2,172
Adjusted EBIT 
US$ million
6,706 2014 2,172 2015 7,434 2013
2015 2014 2013
per million hours worked
1.32
Lost time injury 
frequency rate  
1.58 2014 1.88 2013 1.32 2015
2014 2015 2013
35,798 2013
2013
25,889
Net debt/FFO to net debt 
US$ million
30,532 2014 25,889 2015
2014 2015
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
FFO to net debt
2013
5,957
Capital expenditure* 
US$ million
8,566 2014 11,316 2013 5,957 2015
2015 2014
*Excluding Las Bambas (disposed in 2014).
6,615
Funds from operations 
US$ million
10,169 2014 6,615 2015
2015 2014
10,375 2013
2013
12,764 2014 8,694 2015
2015
13,071 2013
2014
Adjusted EBITDA 
US$ million
8,694
2013
52,216 2013
2013
49,758 2014 41,245 2015
2014 2015
Net funding
US$ million
41,245 Chief Executive  
Officer’s review
04
“Our diversified asset 
portfolio combined 
with our highly resilient 
marketing business, 
underpins Glencore’s 
ability to continue to 
be comfortably cash 
generative, despite the 
current environment for 
commodities.”
02 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic 
report Adjusted EBITDA
$8,694m
Our strategy  
in action
Our strategy 
in action
Adjusted EBITDA
How 
we create value
Our  
business model
Our  
strategy
Financial  
review
10 14 36
03 Glencore Annual Report 2015
04 Chief Executive Officer’s review
06 Who we are
08 A global diversified natural resource company
10 Our business model
14 Our strategy
18 Sustainable development
26 Key performance indicators
28 Principal risks and uncertainties 
36 Financial review
42 Business review
 – Metals and minerals
 – Energy products
 – Agricultural products
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 04 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Summary: 
• Financial market sentiment weakened during 2015 
and the focus in our sector quickly switched from 
cash distribution to cash preservation
• Our investors were concerned about the Company’s 
level of financial leverage. We rapidly put in place a 
strategy to address these concerns, culminating in 
the $13 billion debt reduction plan
• Our diversified portfolio, based around a core of Tier 
1 assets, coupled with the counter-cyclical nature of 
our marketing business, underpins Glencore’s ability 
to continue to be cash generative despite the current 
environment for commodities
Background
Financial market sentiment weakened 
considerably during the course of 2015, 
amid concerns over slowing economic 
growth. The commodity sector was 
particularly adversely affected by a 
succession of disappointing China 
macro-economic data, declining oil 
prices, and the strong US dollar and, as 
a result, sector focus quickly switched 
from cash distribution to balance sheet 
concerns and cash preservation. 
This led to further industry-wide cost 
and capex reductions, project closures 
and curtailments, asset sales, dividend  
cuts and equity issuance.
Robust performance despite 
difficult environment
The financial performance in 2015 
reflects our industrial activities’ 
exposure to lower commodity prices. 
Adjusted EBITDA declined 32% to 
$8.7 billion, compared to 2014.
Marketing delivered Adjusted EBIT 
of $2.5 billion in 2015 despite the 
commodity headwinds noted above, 
12% down on 2014. The business’ 
enhanced cyclical resilience and 
defensiveness helped to offset the 
impact of lower commodity prices, 
whereby earnings are underpinned by 
logistics activities/services, economies 
of scale and business diversification; 
2016 EBIT guidance range confirmed at 
$2.4 to $2.7 billion, adjusted somewhat 
below the long-term range, reflecting 
the lower net working capital levels.
Industrial assets Adjusted EBITDA 
declined 38% to $6.0 billion, compared 
to 2014, reflecting the impact of 
lower commodity prices, offset by 
currency benefits and cost and 
productivity improvements.  05 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
The unique flexibility of our capital 
structure enabled a working capital 
release of more than $6.6 billion, 
reflecting lower commodity prices,  
but also proactive working capital 
management. Net funding reduced by 
$8.5 billion during 2015 to $41.2 billion, 
while net debt at period end was 
$25.9 billion.
Re-positioning the balance sheet
During H2 2015, it became apparent 
that financial markets were concerned 
about the Group’s level of financial 
leverage. We rapidly put in place a 
plan to address these concerns, 
culminating in the $10.2 billion debt 
reduction plan announced in 
September. Further measures were 
communicated in December. In total, 
the initiatives announced are expected 
to support our end 2016 Net funding 
and Net debt targets of $32 – 33 billion 
and $17 – 18 billion respectively, which 
remain on track.
We remain focused on preserving our 
investment grade credit rating status. 
The steps that we have announced and 
taken so far have contributed to our 
current stable credit ratings from both 
major credit ratings’ agencies. 
Corporate governance/
Sustainability
It is with sadness to report that we 
have not achieved our goal of zero 
fatalities during 2015, whereby ten 
people lost their lives at our operations. 
Any loss of life is unacceptable and we 
continue to strengthen our efforts in 
this regard. In last year’s report, we 
highlighted steps being taken to 
address the safety performance at our 
“focus assets” , historically responsible 
for the majority of our safety incidents. 
These assets are located in challenging 
geographies, without a culture of 
safety prior to our involvement. We are 
pleased to report the delivery of 
positive results, with three of the 
five focus assets fatality-free 
throughout 2015. 
Improving health and safety 
performance has substantially 
progressed, achieving, one year ahead 
of schedule, our targeted 50% 
reduction in lost time injury rate 
(against 2010 baseline), with further 
reductions being targeted.
Looking forward
Our diversified asset portfolio, based 
around a core of Tier 1 assets, 
combined with our highly resilient 
marketing business, underpins 
Glencore’s ability to continue to be 
comfortably cash generative, despite 
the current environment 
for commodities.
Furthermore, our continued proactive 
balance sheet initiatives will lead to a 
significant reduction in our net 
funding and net debt levels and ensure 
a high degree of flexibility regardless 
of future market conditions.
 
Ivan Glasenberg 
Chief Executive Officer MARKETING
THIRD PARTY
EXPLORE, ACQUIRE  
& DEVELOP
EXTRACT  
& PRODUCE
PROCESS  
& REFINE
BLENDING & 
OPTIMISING
LOGISTICS & 
DELIVERY
06 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Who we are
Our business
We are a major, global, diversified 
natural resource company, 
producing and marketing more than 
90 commodities. We are uniquely 
diversified in respect of commodity, 
geography and activity. We benefit, 
together with our consumers and 
suppliers, from our scale and diversity 
at every stage of the commodity 
chain – from extraction through to 
delivery. As both a commodity 
producer and marketer, we exploit the 
full range of value-added margin 
and arbitrage opportunities that are 
present throughout the commodity 
supply chain and are well-placed to 
endure short-term volatility.
We have over 40 years of experience 
in marketing commodities. This has 
allowed us to develop and build 
expertise in the commodities which 
we market and to cultivate long-term 
relationships with a broad supplier and 
customer base across diverse industries 
and in multiple geographic regions. 
Our marketing business tends to be 
less correlated to commodity prices 
than our industrial business, which 
generally makes our earnings less 
volatile than pure commodity producers.
Our portfolio of industrial assets 
comprises around 150 mining and 
metallurgical facilities, oil production 
facilities and agricultural facilities. 
These mainly high-quality, low-cost 
assets generate cash even during 
periods in which a particular 
commodity, industry, customer or 
geographic region may be experiencing 
some weakness. Our industrial asset 
base enhances the quality and scale 
of our marketing activities, creating 
increased choice for our customers.
In addition to focusing on minimising 
costs and maximising operational 
efficiencies at our industrial assets, 
our marketing business focuses on 
maximising returns from the entire 
supply chain. We create value from our 
extensive global third party supply 
base, our logistics, risk management 
and working capital financing 
capabilities, our extensive market 
insight, business optionality, extensive 
customer base, strong market position 
and penetration in the commodities 
that we operate and our economies  
of scale. 
Our strong entrepreneurial culture 
has been central to our success. 
This culture is underpinned by 
management and employee ownership 
of around one-third of the Company’s 
shares. This degree of alignment with 
external shareholders’ interests is 
unique amongst major 
resource companies.
We are one of the world’s largest diversified and vertically integrated 
producers, processors and marketers of commodities. We market and 
distribute physical commodities sourced from our own production 
and from third party producers to a highly diversified customer base 
that includes consumers from the industrial, automotive, steel, 
power generation, oil and food processing industries.
 
 
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
METALS & MINERALS
ENERGY
OUR COMMODITIES
IN EVERYDAY PRODUCTS Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Glencore Annual Report 2015 07
Highly diversified:
90
commodities
150
sites
Global footprint:
90
offices in over
50
countries
Active at every 
stage of the 
commodity chain 
to maximise value
Unique 
market insight: 
over 40 years  
of experience
Strong  
entrepreneurial  
culture: employees  
empowered to 
make decisions 08 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
We have three distinct business segments, aligned with management’s 
oversight and accountability to ensure value is extracted at every point 
of the operating chain: 
Copper, zinc/lead, nickel, ferroalloys, alumina/ aluminium and iron ore production and marketing. 
We have interests in industrial assets that include mining, smelting, refining and warehousing operations.
Adjusted EBITDA 2015 (%) Revenue
1
 by region & 
segment 2015 (%)
Non-current assets
2
 by  
region & segment 2015 (%)
1
17
9
30
32
11
4
6
26
36
35
3
13
19
24
33
A global diversified natural resources company
Copper 
1 Argentina Alumbrera
2 Australia Cobar, Ernest Henry, 
Mount Isa, Townswille
3 Canada CCR, Horne
4 Chile Altonorte, Collahuasi, 
Lomas Bayas, 
Punitaqui
5 DRC Katanga, Mutanda
6 Peru Antamina, Antapaccay
7 Philippines Pasar
8 Zambia Mopani, Sable
Nickel 
18 Australia Murrin Murrin
19 Canada Raglan, Sudbury
20 Europe Nikkelverk
21 New Caledonia Koniambo
Ferroalloys 
22 Europe Glencore 
Manganese Group
23 South Africa Chrome and Vanadium
Aluminium 
24 USA Sherwin Alumina
Metals & 
minerals
1 Revenue by geographic destination is based on the country of incorporation  of the sales counterparty. However,  
this may not necessarily be the country of the  counterparty’s ultimate parent and/or final destination of the product.
2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
The percentage contributions are derived from the information included in note 2 of the financial statements.
Asia
Europe
Metals & minerals
Energy products
Americas
Agricultural products Africa
Oceania
Zinc 
9 Argentina AR Zinc
10 Australia Mount Isa, 
McArthur River
11 Bolivia Sinchi Wayra
12 Burkina Faso Perkoa
13 Canada CEZ Refinery,  
Matagami, Kidd
14 Europe Portovesme,  
San Juan de Nieva, 
Nordenham, Northfleet
15 Kazakhstan Kazzinc
16 Namibia Rosh Pinah
17 Peru Los Quenuales
For more information, see page 42 09 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Coal and oil industrial and marketing. 
Our Energy products businesses include 
coal mining and oil production operations 
and investments in strategic handling, storage 
and freight equipment and facilities.
27
2
5
7
8
10
12
14
15
16
18
21
22
23
25
28
29
31
34
20
Coal 
25 Australia Bulga complex, Mangoola, Mount Owen, 
Ravensworth, Ulan, Clermont, Newlands, 
Rolleston, Oaky Creek, West Wallsend, 
Tahmoor
26 Colombia Cerrejon, Prodeco
27 South Africa Goedgevonden, iMpunzi, Shanduka Coal, 
Tweefontein
Oil 
28 Chad Badila, Mangara
29  Equatorial  
Guinea
Block O and Block I
For more information, see page 56
 Corporate office
 Marketing office/other
Energy  
products
Focused on grains, oils/oilseeds, cotton 
and sugar. Our Agricultural products 
group is supported by both controlled 
and non-controlled storage, handling and 
processing facilities in strategic locations.
Agricultural 
products
30 Argentina Grain/rice storage, rice milling, soyabean/
sunflower crush, biodiesel plants
31 Australia Storage, farming, port operations
32 Brazil Wheat milling operations, sugarcane 
(Rio Vermelho), storage
33 Canada Storage facilities/elevators/ports (Viterra)
34 Europe Farms, biofuel plants, storage and port facilities
35 Paraguay Farms, storage
36 Uruguay Milling facilities, storage, rice plant
For more information, see page 64
Diversity by geography: 
Our operations around the world span a global network of 
more than 90 offices located in over 50 countries, and 
employ around 160,000 people, including contractors.
Diversity by product and activity: 
We produce and market over 90 commodities; including 
those from around 150 mining and metallurgical sites, oil 
production assets and agricultural facilities. 10 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Strategic imperatives:
Explore, acquire & develop
Our exploration activities take place 
close to our existing assets, supporting 
the development of brownfield sites. 
We believe that this approach lowers 
our risk profile and lets us use existing 
infrastructure, realise synergies and 
control costs. Each industrial investment 
opportunity is evaluated on a standalone 
basis and on its potential to strengthen our 
marketing activities or existing industrial 
assets. Our approach allows us to build on 
our economies of scale, our familiarity with 
a political and cultural landscape and our 
understanding of commodity dynamics.
Assets and natural resources
• We wholly own or have a significant ownership in our assets, 
in which we make long-term investments. We prioritise being 
a competitive, low-cost producer.
• Our resources and reserves are high quality and long life, 
enhancing the scale and quality of our marketing business. 
See page 192.
• We are a disciplined producer and align supply to demand.
Our people and partners
• Over many years, we have cultivated and established long-term 
relationships with a broad range of suppliers and customers 
across diverse industries and geographies. 
• Our highly skilled and professional workforce of around 
160,000 employees and contractors is located on six continents.
• We interact with many diverse stakeholders around the world. 
We are committed to building transparent and constructive 
relationships with our partners to deliver sustainable, 
long-term benefits to all of our stakeholders.
Extract & produce
We mine and beneficiate minerals across 
a broad range of commodities, mining 
techniques and countries, for processing 
and/or refining at our own facilities or 
for sale to third parties.
Extraction and production of commodities 
involves a long-term commitment as 
well as exposure to risks relating to 
commodity prices, project development, 
changes in sovereign legislation and 
community acceptance.
An integral part of developing and 
maintaining our assets is earning our 
social licence to operate from the host 
governments and the communities around 
our operations.
Inputs:
Our business model
Integration of sustainability  
throughout the business
Maintain robust and flexible balance sheet
Outputs:
Safe and healthy workplace | Long-term value for communities | Socio-economic contributions | Skilled workforce
See our sustainability section  
on page 18
Sustainable business
Principal risks and uncertainties:
KPIs:
Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) | Water withdrawn | Greenhouse gas emissions  
Community investment spend
EXPLORE, ACQUIRE & DEVELOP EXTRACT & PRODUCE
METALS
 
&
 
MINERALS
ENERGY
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS 11 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Financial discipline
• We deploy capital in a disciplined manner, which creates value 
for all of our stakeholders. We have a long track record of value 
creation across economic cycles.
• Our hedging strategies protect us against price risks and 
ensure that our marketing profitability is primarily determined 
by volume driven activities and value-added services rather 
than absolute price.
Unique market knowledge
• Our scale and global reach give us valuable insight into 
market flows and access to real-time information.
• Our long experience has allowed us to build extensive market 
knowledge and insight, as well as full logistics capabilities.
• As a commodity producer and marketer, we are uniquely 
positioned to generate value at every stage of the 
commodity chain.
Process & refine
Our expertise and technology advantages 
in processing and refining activities enable 
us to optimise our end products for a wider 
customer base. 
Our smelting and refining facilities 
provide volumes that are utilised by 
our marketing teams.
Our ownership of processing and refining 
assets increases our flexibility and optionality 
and provides security of supply as well 
as enabling us to gain valuable market 
knowledge.
We purchase and process additional 
products as required from smaller 
operators that do not enjoy the same 
economies of scale.
Blending & optimising
Through our presence at every stage 
of the commodity chain, we are able 
to provide a wide range of product 
specifications resulting in a superior service 
for our customers. 
Our ability to blend and optimise products, 
through using both our own and third 
party volumes, means we are better placed 
to meet the exact requirements of 
our customers. 
Working with third party suppliers 
provides a fuller oversight of supply. 
This allows us to gain valuable market and 
local knowledge and to better understand 
the balance between supply and demand.
Logistics & delivery
Our logistics assets allow us to handle 
large volumes of commodities, to fulfil 
our marketing obligations and to take 
advantage of demand and supply 
imbalances. We have global storage and 
logistics assets in key strategic locations, 
including metal warehouses accredited 
by the LME and numerous oil and grain 
storage facilities worldwide. The broad 
range of value-added services we offer 
fulfils the needs of customers that do not 
have the equivalent internal capability and 
make us a preferred counterparty as well as 
strengthening our long-term relationships.
See page 14 for more information  
on our strategy
  Focus on cost control and operating efficiencies
Returns to shareholders | Value for our stakeholders
See our financial review  
on page 36
Financial performance
See page 28 for more information  
on risks and uncertainties
Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA | Funds from operations (FFO) | Net funding | Net debt/FFO to Net debt | Net income
MARKETING
THIRD PARTY
PROCESS & REFINE BLENDING & 
OPTIMISING
LOGISTICS & 
DELIVERY
OUR COMMODITIES
IN EVERYDAY PRODUCTS 12 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Our marketing business
We are an established marketer of commodities and have,  
over 40 years, built a strong market reputation as a reliable  
supplier of quality product on a timely basis. Our presence  
on the ground gives us extensive and unique market knowledge  
and insight, as well as trusted relationships with our partners  
and customers. In addition, we have developed the full logistics 
capabilities required to generate value-added margins and we  
are well positioned to seek arbitrage opportunities throughout  
the physical commodity supply chain.
Our marketing activities involve the 
physical movement of commodities. 
We deliver commodities – both those 
we extract as part of our industrial 
business, as well as from third party 
suppliers – to where they are most 
in demand. Marketing earnings are 
generated from a fee-like income that 
is earned from the handling of physical 
assets as well as arbitrage and blending 
and optimisation opportunities.
Our market insight, extensive 
logistics network and storage facilities 
differentiate us from other pure 
commodity producers. In addition 
to focusing on minimising costs and 
maximising operational efficiencies 
at our producing assets, we are 
also able to focus on maximising 
the fee-like returns from the entire 
marketing process. 
By working side-by-side, our 
integrated marketing and industrial 
businesses give us a presence across 
the entire supply chain, delivering a 
unique knowledge of market dynamics 
and helping us to fully understand the 
needs of our customers.
Our marketing business is counter-
cyclical from a cashflow perspective 
as its funding requirements are 
highly linked to commodity prices, 
requiring less working capital during 
periods of falling prices and helping 
to mitigate the generally negative 
effects of a lower price environment on 
our industrial assets.
Virtually all our marketed volumes 
are hedged or pre-sold to minimise 
price exposure. Earnings from our 
marketing activities are largely based 
on margins generated throughout the 
value chain. 
Our use of hedging instruments 
results in marketing profitability 
being overwhelmingly determined 
by volume activity and associated 
value-added supply chain margins 
and other marketing conditions rather 
than by the absolute flat price itself. 
Many of the physical commodity 
markets in which we operate are 
fragmented or periodically volatile. 
This can result in arbitrage, price 
discrepancies between the prices 
that the same commodities can be 
bought or sold in different geographic 
locations or time periods. Other factors 
that lead to arbitrage include freight 
and product quality. Through taking 
advantage of arbitrage opportunities 
we can generate additional value by 
sourcing, transporting, blending, 
storing or otherwise processing the 
relevant commodities. 
Unique market 
knowledge: global office 
network and logistics/
storage infrastructure
Fee-like income from 
handling of physical  
commodities and  
arbitrage opportunities
Established third party  
supply and global 
customer base
Price exposure 
minimised: marketed 
volumes hedged  
or pre-sold 13 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
During our 40 years of marketing 
commodities, we have established 
a comprehensive risk management 
system, supported by robust 
procedures, to monitor all our 
marketing activities.
The credit risks associated with our 
marketing activities, including those 
present in agreements with suppliers 
and customers, are mitigated through 
the extensive application of measures 
including credit insurance, letters of 
credit, security arrangements  
and/ or bank and corporate guarantees.  
In addition, our network of global 
offices allows us to maintain and 
develop our relationships with our 
customers and suppliers, as well as 
observe on-the-ground movements 
in the commodities’ environment.
Our marketing teams manage 
Glencore’s market exposure via 
the reduction of price risks arising 
from timing differences between the 
purchase and sale of commodities 
to acceptably low levels.
Our extensive internal compliance 
policies and procedures and use of 
third party screening ensure we are 
compliant with sanctions, applicable 
laws and regulations.
Our marketing business, supported 
by robust risk management and 
working capital financing capabilities, 
creates value through utilising 
extensive market insight, business 
optionality, broad customer base, 
extensive third party supply base, 
strong market position and 
penetration in most commodities 
and economies of scale.
Disparity
Pricing differences for the 
same product in different 
geographic regions, taking 
into account transportation 
or transaction costs.
Execution
Leverage global relationships 
and production, processing 
and logistical capabilities to 
source product in one location 
and deliver in another.
Disparity
Pricing differences between 
blends, grades or types 
of commodity, taking into 
account processing or 
substitution costs.
Execution
Ensure optionality with 
commodity supply contracts, and 
look to lock-in profitable price 
differentials through blending, 
processing or end product 
substitution.
Disparity
Pricing differences on 
a commodity between delivery 
immediately, or at a future date, 
taking into account storage and 
financing costs until future date.
Execution
Book “carry trades” benefiting 
from competitive sources 
of storage, insurance 
and financing.
Geographic  
arbitrage
Product  
arbitrage
Time  
arbitrage
The arbitrage strategies we implement to generate additional 
price margins may vary from commodity to commodity.
The main opportunities are: 14 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Our strategy
Our objective is to grow total shareholder returns while maintaining a 
strong investment grade rating and acting as a responsible operator. 
To achieve this ambition, we focus on three strategic imperatives: 
to fully integrate sustainability throughout our business; to maintain a 
robust and flexible balance sheet; and to focus on cost controls and 
operational efficiencies throughout our entire business.
Strategic priority
Integration of sustainability 
throughout the business
Strategic priority
Maintain robust and 
flexible balance sheet
Strategic priority
Focus on cost control 
and operating efficiencies
Our ongoing activities to integrate sustainability throughout 
our business are in line with our commitment to operating 
transparently and responsibly, and to meet or exceed 
applicable laws or external requirements. Our Values and 
Code of Conduct define the principles by which we operate 
and we expect all of our employees to understand and 
implement these in their working practices. Safety is 
paramount and is prioritised over all business activities. 
We encourage our employees to take responsibility for their 
safety and that of their colleagues.
We recognise that a robust and sufficiently flexible balance 
sheet delivers shareholder returns and ensures that 
Glencore is well placed to withstand the cyclical nature 
of the natural resource industry. We aim to increase returns 
on capital and cash flows while reducing net funding/debt. 
Capital is only deployed when strict and clearly defined 
financial criteria, relating to returns and payback, can be 
met. We take a disciplined approach towards all of our 
assets and will divest when another operator places greater 
value on them, or curtail production in response to 
falling demand.
Our major industrial assets are mainly long life and low 
cost, reflecting the substantial investment into existing 
assets as well as our appetite, capabilities and belief in 
commodities and geographies where our peers are exiting 
or not present. Our industrial activities focus on controlling 
costs and generating sustainable operating and capital 
efficiencies. Our industrial assets provide a source of 
volumes for our marketing operations, which are 
supplemented by third party production. Our marketing 
business supports the creation of incremental value through 
critical mass, blending, storage and geographical arbitrage. 
Our marketing activities’ priorities are to maximise the 
returns and cash flows from the pool of allocated capital, 
which, in turn, supports the strengthening of our 
balance sheet. 
These strategic imperatives are supported by a highly 
entrepreneurial culture that supports an opportunistic 
approach within clearly defined financial criteria. From an 
operational level through to our senior management team, 
our employees are empowered to evaluate opportunities 
and make decisions while taking responsibility for their 
actions. This approach allows our managers to be flexible 
and rapid in their response to changing situations while 
risk is mitigated by a comprehensive framework of controls. 
Our entrepreneurial culture is underpinned by a high 
level of ownership by management and employees, 
which is unique amongst the major resource companies. 15 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Key highlights in 2015
•  Progress continued towards zero fatalities (10 in 2015; 
16 in 2014, 26 in 2013)
• A 50% reduction in our lost time injury frequency rate 
(against a 2010 baseline) achieved one year ahead 
of schedule
• All our assets are implementing SafeWork, a risk-based 
approach to safety
• A health strategy was developed that will be rolled out 
Group-wide in 2016
• The strategic water management framework was 
completed and high risk sites identified
• Catastrophic risks have been identified Group-wide and a 
hazard register created
• Relationships have been formalised with public security 
forces in locations with the highest risk of human rights 
abuses by signing Memoranda of Understanding and 
reviewing and strengthening training on human rights 
• $94 million spent on community investments
 
Priorities going forward
• Continue to implement SafeWork, build a strong culture 
of safety and target zero fatalities across the Group
• Progress our targeted 50% reduction of LTIFR and 
TRIFR by 2020 based on a 2015 baseline and 2014 
baseline respectively
• Roll-out the revised health strategy and supporting 
materials to all assets during 2016
• Implement the water management framework 
Group-wide and assess operations that have been 
identified as being  high-risk sites related to water
• Undertake a feasibility study to develop a meaningful 
target for carbon, continue to strengthen our position in 
the debate on climate change and the role of fossil fuels 
in the future global energy mix
• Continue to strengthen our relationships with our 
communities and other stakeholders to maintain our 
social licence to operate
• Developing a strategic framework to enhance our 
contribution to socio-economic development and roll-out 
relevant metrics to all operations
Strategic priority
Strategic objectives:
• We take an approach of continuous 
improvement with regards to our 
sustainability actions and performance. 
We believe that by being a better operator 
with a reputation for doing things the 
right way, we will be regarded as a 
partner of choice by the governments 
of our host nations and the communities 
living near our operations
• A key part of our commitment to 
operating responsibly is to develop, 
maintain and strengthen our relationships 
with all of our stakeholders. We engage 
in a transparent and open manner and 
recognise that constructive relationships 
are essential for our social licence 
to operate 
Key performance indicators: 
see page 27
• Safety
• W ater
• Greenhouse gas emissions
• Community investment spend 
Principal risks and uncertainties:
• Sustainable development risks  
(pages 34 to 35)
Integration of sustainability  
throughout the business 16 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Key highlights in 2015
•  Issued bonds totaling some $4.9 billion
•  Renewed the multi-tranche committed revolving 
credit bank facilities totaling $15.3 billion in May 2015 
and in February 2016 signed commitments of $7.7 billion 
to refinance and replace the existing $8.45 billion one-year 
committed facility
•  Credit rating affirmed at Baa3 (stable) by Moody’s 
(December 2015) and BBB- (stable) by Standard & Poor’s 
(February 2016)
• Significant progress made on the delivery of our debt 
reduction plans. Net debt was $25.9 billion at year end
•  Equity issuance of $2.5 billion 
•  Committed available liquidity of $15.2 billion as at 
year end
•  Disposed various non-core projects during the year, 
including Tampakan, an early-stage copper-gold project, 
and the Falcondo, Sipilou and Cosmos nickel projects
•  Raised $1.4 billion from sales of silver and gold streams 
($900 million in 2015 and $500 million in February 2016)
Priorities going forward
•  Continue to deliver on the capital preservation and debt 
reduction measures initially outlined in September 2015
•  Ensure strong liquidity position is maintained through 
continued access to funding markets and manageable 
debt maturity profile
•  Extend and renew Group bank facilities on competitive 
terms, as appropriate
•  Reposition our balance sheet to strong BBB/Baa 
investment grade credit rating
•  Ongoing review of project portfolio
Our strategy
Strategic priority
Strategic objectives:
•  We are committed to maintaining and 
strengthening our balance sheet to ensure 
it is capable of supporting growth and 
shareholder returns regardless of the 
commodity price environment
•  Preserving a robust capital structure and 
business mix in line with our 
commitment to strong BBB/Baa 
investment grade rating status
•  Continuously evaluating opportunities for 
acquisition, development and disposal, 
particularly when assets no longer 
support core business 
Key performance indicators: 
see page 26
•  Adjusted EBIT /EBITD A
•  Funds from operations
•  FFO to net debt 
Principal risks and uncertainties:
• External risks (pages 30 to 31)
• Business risks (pages 32 to 33)
Maintain robust and  
flexible balance sheet 17 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Key highlights in 2015
•  $2.5 billion marketing Adjusted EBIT achieved; despite 
a challenging market environment
•  Competitive cost positions maintained/improved through 
cost efficiencies and favourable currency movements
•  Reflecting the low commodity price environment and our 
disciplined approach to supply, our Katanga and Mopani 
operations have been suspended and/or curtailed, 
pending delivery of the capital improvement projects 
underway, which are expected to secure their future 
restart and long-term competitiveness
•  Mined zinc production reduced by 500kt in response 
to low zinc prices
•  Australian coal production reduced by 15 million tonnes, 
compared to plan, in response to market oversupply
Priorities going forward
•  Continue to leverage our capability to realise value 
at each stage of the commodity supply chain
•  Focus on sourcing competitively priced physical 
commodities from reliable third party suppliers
•  Constant evaluation of commodities’ flows and market 
changes to maximise product and geographical arbitrages
•  Ongoing focus on improving the quality of assets through 
year on year cost reductions, mine life extensions and 
productivity and safety improvements
•  Continued evaluation of existing operations, processes 
and new opportunities in an effort to achieve industry-
leading returns on capital
•  Minimal capital expenditure in response to the current 
environment for commodities
Strategic priority
Strategic objectives:
•  Continuously seek to increase the 
net present value of our business by 
improving the competitiveness of our 
assets through an ongoing focus on cost 
management and logistical capabilities, 
including operating safely and efficiently
• Relentlessly leverage the scale and 
capabilities of our marketing activities 
to extract additional margin throughout 
our entire business model and provide 
a superior service to customers and 
a reliable supply of quality product
•  Disciplined approach to supply 
in response to market conditions 
Key performance indicators: 
see page 26
•  Adjusted EBIT /EBITD A
•  Funds from operations
•  FFO to net debt
•  Net income 
Principal risks and uncertainties:
• External risks (pages 30 to 31)
• Business risks (pages 32 to 33)
Focus on cost control  
and operating efficiencies 18 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Our Values and Code of Conduct set out our commitment 
to operating in a transparent and responsible manner. 
We expect all our employees, contractors and suppliers 
to integrate this commitment into their working practices. 
We strive to adopt safe and sustainable business practices, 
and to contribute to the socio-economic growth of the 
communities in which we operate. Our policies and 
procedures help our people to uphold good business 
practices; we expect our operations to meet or exceed any 
applicable laws and to apply other relevant 
external requirements.
Our corporate responsibility management system, Glencore 
Corporate Practice (GCP), provides a framework for the 
integration of our sustainability principles, guidance 
and policies throughout our business. GCP provides clear 
guidance on the standards we expect of our operations. 
Through the reporting function within GCP , our Board 
receives regular updates and has detailed oversight of how 
our business is performing across all our internally defined 
sustainability-related areas.
Our robust risk management framework allows us 
to identify and manage risks. The framework identifies 
material matters and supports our ongoing assessment of 
what matters most to our business and to our stakeholders.
We are in the process of further developing our systematic 
management system for catastrophic hazards in line with 
the International Council on Mining and Metals guidelines. 
Each of our commodity departments has identified the 
catastrophic hazards relevant to its operations and created a 
hazard register, as well as reviewing the relevant critical 
controls. The Board HSEC Committee has set requirements 
and will continue to review progress on critical control 
management and performance.
Our public sustainability reporting provides an annual 
update on our progress against our sustainability ambitions, 
in accordance with the requirements of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI). Each report gives considerable 
detail of our approach and performance across our 
material sustainability topics. Our sustainability reports 
are available at: www.glencore.com/sustainability.
HSEC strategic framework
During 2015, we formalised a HSEC strategic framework, 
which:
•  addresses the topics identified as material by internal 
and external stakeholders;
• defines strategic objectives, priorities, targets and 
responsibilities; and
•  supports the continued integration of GCP into our 
business strategy.
The framework has four pillars (Health, Safety, Environment 
and Community & Human Rights), which are underpinned 
by governance systems that include communication, 
reporting, catastrophic hazards and assurance.
Assurance
Our assurance programme focuses on HSEC-related 
catastrophic hazards that have been identified via our 
catastrophic hazard management process. Our annual 
assurance plan is reviewed and approved by the Board. 
Assurance involves assessments against pre-defined criteria 
that have been aligned to international best practice. 
These assessments are carried out by subject matter experts, 
who are mainly internal but independent from the asset and 
department under review. Progress is regularly reported to 
the Board. When appropriate, corrective actions are tracked 
and followed up.
Sustainable development
Our activities and presence deliver lasting benefits to our stakeholders 
and to society , creating value both locally and globally. The commodities 
that we produce and market have an essential role in everyday life 
and support the development of emerging economies. Working with 
our host communities, we support their socio-economic development 
through our investment in infrastructure, procurement and health and 
education projects. 19 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Performance during 2015
Key performance indicators 2015 2014 2013
Fatalities at managed operations 10 16 26
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 
(per million hours worked)* 1.32 1.58 1.88
Total recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR) (per million hours worked) 5.06 5.82 n/a**
CO2e Scope 1 (million tonnes) 23.4 22.3 23.2
CO2 Scope 2 (million tonnes) 13.7 13.6 13.9
Total energy use (petajoules) 242 242 
†
238
Water withdrawn (million m
3
) 952 996
 †
965
Community investment spend ($ million) 94 114 168
Number of employees and contractors 156,468 181,349 203,637
Proportion of female employees (%) 16 16 17
*  Prior to 2014, the combined figure for Glencore and Xstrata LTIs is not based on a 
consistent definition. From 2014, LTIs are recorded for lost days beginning on the first 
rostered day that the worker is absent after the day of the injury. The day of the injury 
is not included.
**TRIFR baseline set in 2014, definitions aligned post-merger with Xstrata.
†  Restated primarily due to improved estimation methods for water withdrawn at 
3 sites and change in unit of measurement for energy at one site.
Progress against our key priorities 
2015 priorities Progress
Eliminate fatalities, paying particular attention to our ‘focus assets’ 
(as detailed on following page) and underground operations where 
the majority of fatalities have historically occurred.
A continued reduction in fatalities: ten fatalities (from seven fatal 
incidents) in 2015 (2014: 16 fatalities from 15 fatal incidents).
Continued focus on reducing our lost time injury frequency rate 
(LTIFR) to our 2016 target, and reducing our total recordable injury 
frequency rate (TRIFR) by 50% by 2020.
We have achieved our LTIFR target (to reduce the rate by 50% 
against our 2010 baseline) one year early and established a new 
target to reduce LTIFR by 50% compared to 2015 figures by 2020. 
Our 2015 LTIFR is 1.32, exceeding the 2015 target of a 15% 
improvement over our 2014 LTIFR (1.58). In total, we have reduced 
our LTIFR by 52% since 2010.
Our TRIFR for 2015 is 5.06, which is a 13% reduction on 5.82 achieved 
in 2014. Our current TRIFR is ahead of the progressive 
improvement required to meet the 2020 target of a 50% TRIFR 
reduction against our 2014 baseline.
Complete our occupational disease prevention framework in the 
first half of the year and roll it out across all our assets by the end 
of 2015.
We have developed a health strategy, which has been agreed by 
all departments. A working group of internal specialists is defining 
leading practices, developing tools and establishing indicators to be 
shared across the business as part of the ongoing roll-out strategy. 
The working group will establish broad milestones for 
implementation during 2016.
Continue to improve engagement activities with all stakeholders 
and identify further opportunities for interaction.
Significant progress achieved in our engagement with all our 
stakeholders, including NGOs and civil society groups.
Continued development and strengthening of our 
employees’ skills.
Our ongoing approach continues to provide individual 
development and training; we also continue to work on 
a standardised approach.
Review the societal strategies at our operations and, where 
necessary, revise to optimise our contribution to local socio-
economic development.
We have drawn on internal and external expertise to develop 
performance metrics for measuring our socio-economic 
contribution. These metrics have been piloted in several locations, 
for roll-out across all operations in 2016.
Complete our water management framework by the end of 2015. 
This framework includes consistent definitions and metrics, the 
introduction of a water accounting tool and a consistent water 
balance, water management requirements and reporting systems.
We have completed the strategic water management framework, 
defining Glencore’s strategic objectives, priority areas and the 
associated timelines. We have harmonised and aligned our 
water metrics to the Water Accounting Framework of the Minerals 
Council of Australia. We have identified our high-risk sites, which 
will be assessed to identify and implement improvements.
Review training on the Voluntary Principles on Security & Human 
Rights to ensure a consistent approach across all our assets.
We have formalised our relationships with public security forces in 
regions with the highest risk of human rights abuses. This includes 
signing memoranda of understanding and reviewing 
and strengthening human rights training at operations.
Our priorities going forward
• Continue to implement SafeWork, build a strong culture 
of safety and eliminate fatalities across the Group
• Progress our targeted 50% reduction of LTIFR and TRIFR 
by 2020, based on our 2015 and 2014 baselines respectively
•  Roll out the revised health strategy and supporting 
materials to assets during 2016
•  Implement the water management framework across the 
Group and assess operations that have been identified as 
being high-risk sites related to water
• Undertake a feasibility study to develop a meaningful 
target for carbon, continue to develop our position in the 
debate on climate change and the role of fossil fuels in the 
future global energy mix
• Continue to strengthen relationships with our 
communities and other stakeholders to maintain our 
licence to operate
• Develop a strategic framework to enhance our 
contribution to socio-economic development and roll out 
associated metrics to all operations 20 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Sustainable development
Materiality
As part of the preparation for compiling our annual 
sustainability report, we undertake a Group-wide review of 
the material topics that have affected and continue to affect 
our business, globally and locally , and our actions to address 
them. This process focuses our reporting on the sustainability 
topics of most interest to our key stakeholders, which 
include national and regional governments, community 
members, our workforce, business partners, union 
representatives and civil society.
Our process reflects the GRI’s guidance on materiality 
and completeness. This guidance requires reporting 
to cover topics and indicators that “reflect the organisation’s 
significant economic, environmental and social impacts” 
and/or that “substantively influence the assessments and 
decisions of stakeholders.” 
The process involves: identifying the topics raised during 
engagement activities with a broad range of stakeholders, 
both internal and external; considering the issues that affect 
our peers and the extractive sector as a whole; assessing 
media coverage of Glencore; and considering feedback from 
local communities and civil society groups. 
A matter is considered to be material if, in the view of 
senior management, the Board and key stakeholder groups, 
it is of such importance that it will, or potentially could, in 
the short, medium or long term:
• have a significant influence on, or is of particular interest 
to, our stakeholders; or 
• substantively impact our ability to meet our strategic objectives.
Once identified, each material issue is given a priority level 
based on the level of concern shown by stakeholders, as well 
as its actual and/or potential impact on the business. Issues 
that are of interest globally, that will have an impact on more 
than one region, and that are assessed to be of medium to 
high importance, are reported in detail in our sustainability 
report and summarised in this report. Topics that have a 
more local focus are covered in regional and local reports. 
The issues identified as being material are, in no order 
of priority:
• The safety of our people
• Promotion of health and wellbeing in our workforce 
and local communities
• Developing and supporting our workforce
• Respecting fundamental human rights
• Working in partnership with local communities
• Addressing the impact of climate change
• Management of our water footprint
• Responsible waste management
• Minimising air emissions
• Managing the closure of operations 
• Engaging with all of our stakeholders
The Board HSEC Committee has reviewed and approved 
the results of the materiality assessment.
The safety of our people
Our number one priority is the health and safety of our 
people. We are committed to achieving strong health and 
safety performances at all of our assets through resolving 
local challenges and transforming behaviour at all levels 
of our organisation.
Strategy and approach
We take a proactive, preventative approach towards health 
and safety. Our aim is to establish a safety culture in which 
our employees and contractors feel empowered to stop work 
if they consider a workplace or situation unsafe. We believe 
that all occupational fatalities, diseases and injuries are 
preventable. We are working towards achieving this 
ambition through SafeWork, a Group-wide initiative. 
SafeWork focuses on eliminating fatalities and serious 
injuries through encouraging life-saving behaviours and 
developing a better understanding of the consequences of 
unsafe actions.
An important tool in improving safety at our operations has 
been the recording of high potential risk incidents (HPRIs). 
Reporting on HPRIs trends and making corrective actions 
immediately is helping us to systematically eliminate the 
cause of fatalities. 
Fatalities
It is with deep regret that we report we have not met 
our goal of zero fatalities. During 2015, ten people lost 
their lives at our operations, compared to 16 during 2014. 
All ten fatalities occurred in underground working 
situations. All loss of life is unacceptable and we are 
determined to eliminate fatalities across our Group. 
Fatalities at managed operations
number
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2013 2014 2015
26
16
10
Target: 0 fatalities 21 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Africa Australia Asia North
America
South
America
Europe
2014 2015 2013
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
88
77
5
0
2
1
0
11
000
1
8
1
2
Fatalities per region (2013 – 2015)
The 2016 HSEC assurance schedule includes an internal 
audit programme that will continue over the next 
three to four years, covering all underground operations. 
The audit will assess major catastrophic and fatal hazards: 
strata failure, shafts and winders, fire, explosion, 
and inrush.
All our assets are implementing our SafeWork programme. 
In 2014, we identified a small number of our operations 
as ‘focus assets’. These assets are located in challenging 
geographies and have legacy issues that have historically 
resulted in them having a lower safety performance than 
the rest of the business. 
Each focus asset has completed a gap analysis against our 
fatal hazard protocols requirements. This included 
identifying and implementing critical controls, and 
producing detailed action plans to close out any identified 
gaps. SafeWork also requires training in hazard awareness, 
risk assessment, life-saving behaviours and 
safety leadership.
We are beginning to realise positive results at these assets. 
At the end of 2015, our Kazzinc complex in Kazakhstan 
achieved 15 months without a fatality, our agricultural 
products assets in the former Soviet Union region achieved 
13 months, and the Katanga and Mutanda copper mines 
in the Democratic Republic of Congo achieved 14 months 
and 39 months respectively without a fatality. In 2015, 
Mopani Copper Mines in Zambia experienced three fatal 
incidents resulting in six fatalities, while the Sinchi Wayra 
zinc mine in Bolivia had one fatality. Although, we have 
seen a reduction in fatalities at our focus assets, we 
recognise that more work needs to be done to strengthen 
each asset’s capabilities around sustaining the prevention 
of fatalities.
Reducing injury frequency rates
Our long-term goal of reducing employee and contractor 
injuries continues to deliver year-on-year reductions in our 
lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR). Our LTIFR reflects 
the total number of LTIs per million hours worked and does 
not include restricted work injuries or fatalities. 
In 2015, our LTIFR was 1.32 per million hours worked, 
a 16% improvement against 2014. Our LTIFR has improved 
by 52% since 2010, exceeding our long-term goal of a 
50% reduction against our 2010 baseline of 2.74 by 2016.
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
per million hours worked
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2013 2014 2015
1.88
1.58
1.32
Target: LTIFR reduction by 50% by 2020
 using 2015 as the baseline
Lost time incidents are recorded when an employee or contractor is unable to work 
following an incident; days recorded begin on the first rostered shift that the worker is 
absent after the day of the injury. 
The total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) is the 
sum of fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries 
and medical treatment injuries per million hours worked. 
The metric represents all injuries that require medical 
treatment beyond first aid.
During 2015, we set a long-term goal of achieving a 
50% reduction in TRIFR by the end of 2020, using our 
2014 TRIFR of 5.82 as the baseline. Following the merger 
with Xstrata in 2013, 2014 was the first year all our assets 
had harmonised their TRIFR reporting definitions. Our 2015 
TRIFR of 5.06 is a 13% improvement against the 2014 TRIFR 
of 5.82. Our current TRIFR is ahead of the progressive 
improvement required to meet our long-term goal.
Total recordable injury frequency rate
per million hours worked*
10.0
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
0
2013 2015
8.05
5.06
*No harmonised data available for time before 2014.
5.82
2014
A high potential risk incident (HPRI) is an incident 
that could have caused a catastrophic or major incident. 
During 2015, 338 HPRIs were reported, compared to 278 
for 2014. HPRI reporting represents a positive part of our 
strategy to reduce fatalities and, as such, we do not target 
a reduction in this metric. We are encouraging our 
workforce to recognise the need to record HPRIs through 
the promotion of a risk-based safety culture. 22 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Sustainable development
Promotion of health and wellbeing in our workforce 
and local communities
We believe that all occupational diseases can be prevented. 
We are working to address risks to the health of our people, 
both from exposure to hazards in the workplace, and from 
broader lifestyle challenges. The most common health 
hazards in our workplaces continue to be heavy loads, 
noise, silica, lead, diesel exhaust particles, acid mist and 
particulate matter (dust) containing heavy metals.
The challenges of eliminating occupational diseases vary 
with each site’s operational processes and procedures. 
We have developed three key objectives to meet our 
strategic intent in occupational disease management:
• Healthy workplaces: controlling exposures to hazards 
at the source 
• Fit for work: ensuring the capabilities of employees are 
appropriate for the tasks being undertaken
• Fit for life: delivering wellbeing initiatives that reflect the 
health needs of individuals in the workplace and those 
of the local community 
We have finalised the framework and key objectives for our 
health strategy. A working group of internal specialists is 
now consolidating our leading practices, developing tools 
to support implementation of the strategy and establishing 
indicators to measure performance. These resources will be 
shared throughout Glencore during 2016.
The regions in which we operate have a diverse range of 
community health problems, including HIV / AIDS and 
malaria in Africa, malnutrition in South America, and 
diabetes and obesity in Canada and Australia. We work 
to tackle these problems, both to help our people and to 
encourage community development.
Reducing occupational disease
In 2015, 94% of our sites reported no new cases of 
occupational disease, compared to 91% of sites in 2014. 
Developing and supporting our workforce
Our people are fundamental to our success, underpinning 
our ability to succeed and grow. We aim to provide clear, 
attractive career paths and safe, healthy workplaces, free 
from discrimination and harassment.
Our success relies strongly on our ability to attract, 
develop and retain the best talent at every level. We choose 
the best people for each position and reward them 
competitively, in line with market conditions and their 
contribution to our overall business success. We provide 
our people with the opportunity to develop and increase 
their skills, expertise and experience and the confidence 
to improve their careers.
Over the last year, the impact of slowing economic growth 
was enhanced in commodity producing and consuming 
countries, such as China, Brazil and Russia, has resulted in a 
dramatic fall in commodity prices. In turn, this has led to a 
number of assets no longer operating profitably. In response 
to such operating conditions, we placed a number of our 
assets on care and maintenance or significantly reduced 
production levels in 2015. At these sites, we have engaged 
extensively with our employees, unions, government 
representatives and local community members to ensure all 
our stakeholders are fully aware of the actions being taken. 
Employees being made redundant receive packages 
significantly in excess of local requirements and we will 
continue to support ongoing community initiatives. 
Regardless of the economic backdrop, we remain committed 
to operating in a manner that fully incorporates our 
sustainability standards, programmes and initiatives and to 
delivering benefits to our stakeholders. Integrating 
sustainability across all our business processes remains 
a core strategic priority.
Diversity
We believe that a diverse workforce is essential to a 
successful business and seek to ensure that our workforce 
reflects the diversity of the communities in which we 
operate. We value diversity and treat employees and 
contractors fairly, providing equal opportunities 
throughout the organisation. During 2015, our workforce 
was made up of 16,382 (16%) female employees compared 
to 17 ,093 (16%) in 2014. 
Protecting labour rights
We are committed to upholding the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) Declaration of Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work and their Core Labour Standards. 
We prohibit any form of child, forced or bonded labour 
at any of our operations and do not tolerate discrimination 
or harassment. We endeavour to have a positive and 
constructive relationship with the unions in the locations 
where we operate.
Industrial relations
Around 70% of our employees are represented by 
an independent trade union or covered by a collective 
bargaining agreement. We uphold the rights of our 
employees to freedom of association, to unionise and 
to collective representation, regardless of their location 
or function. We are committed to working honestly 
and transparently with labour unions and we undertake 
negotiations in good faith. 23 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Respecting fundamental human rights
Our operations have many contacts with the communities 
in which we work. It is vital that we respect the human 
rights of our people and our local communities, including 
vulnerable people such as women, indigenous people and 
victims of conflict. This is particularly relevant in regions 
where our assets require additional security.
Our approach to respecting fundamental human rights is 
aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
the Human Rights Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, 
as well as the ILO Core Conventions. Each of our operations 
is required to identify human rights risks as part of the risk 
assessment processes undertaken at key lifecycle phases. 
All our operations are required to have grievance 
mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, 
and that enable our stakeholders to raise concerns without 
fear of recrimination.
In March 2015, we were successful in our application 
to join the Voluntary Principles Initiative. We are now 
working with the Initiative’s member governments, 
companies and NGOs to further develop our approach 
towards security and human rights.
Working in partnership with local communities
The communities surrounding our operations are our 
neighbours, employees, business partners and future 
workforce. Through our commitment to fully engage with 
our local communities we aim to secure a broad base of 
support for our activities.
We foster sustainable growth where we operate. 
We contribute to society throughout our value chain, 
via employment, procurement, enterprise development, 
infrastructure and social investment programmes. 
During the year, we continued to target contributions 
to initiatives that benefit our host communities. In 2015, this  
contribution totalled $94 million, meeting our target of at 
least 1% of PBT. Our community development projects 
address three focus areas: capacity building (including 
education, enterprise development and economic 
diversification); health; and environment.
Local employment
Our most significant impact on our host regions is 
through employment, both directly and via contractors. 
Local employment is particularly significant in developing 
countries, where our local employees can support as many 
as nine people each. Improving the prosperity of our 
workforce also funds a general uplift in local economies, 
resulting in further job creation.
Local procurement
We use local suppliers wherever possible, as this is cost-
effective and helps communities to reduce their reliance 
on our operations for direct employment. It is also an 
important building block for the development of local 
economies; in some countries, national development 
objectives determine procurement requirements for 
each region.
Local infrastructure
Our operations are often in remote areas in need 
of development, where it is helpful to share infrastructure 
such as roads, water and electricity with our host 
communities. This infrastructure will last long after our 
activities in those regions end, not only boosting current 
economic growth but contributing to a sustainable future.
Environment
Our operations have direct and indirect impact on the 
environment in regions where we operate. We work to 
minimise and mitigate any negative impact from our 
activities and are always looking for ways to improve 
our performance. We are committed to reducing our 
environmental impact, including our use of resources, 
such as energy and water, wherever possible.
We are committed to eliminating material environmental 
incidents and incurring zero fines, penalties or prosecutions. 
Any material environmental incidents are reported to the 
Board HSEC committee and, in particularly severe cases, 
presentations are made by operational management teams. 
During 2015, our operations did not record any 
environmental incidents that were classed as major 
or catastrophic.
Addressing the impact of climate change
The need for secure, affordable energy is universal; it is a 
pivotal factor for nations to achieve their socio-economic 
goals. In the developing world, access to energy is essential 
for improving living conditions, education, healthcare 
provisions and economic development.
We are aware of the increasing regulatory pressure and 
societal demand for a low-emission economy to address 
the global climate change situation. We play an active 
role in engaging with governments and other interested 
stakeholders to develop strategies for reducing the impact 
of climate change. We actively support the development 
of low emission technologies and renewable energy sources.
We are working to mitigate the physical impacts of climate 
change where we can and take resource efficiency into 
account when making operational decisions. Wherever we 
operate, we seek to optimise our energy and carbon footprint. 
We divide CO 2 emissions reporting into three different 
scopes, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate 
Standard (2004). We monitor and report on both the direct  24 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Sustainable development
(scope 1 in tCO 2e) and indirect (scope 2 in tCO 2) emissions 
generated by the operational activities, entities and facilities 
in which we have a controlling stake. Scope 3 emissions are 
all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in 
the value chain of the reporting company, including both 
upstream and downstream emissions.
During 2015, we emitted 23.4 million tonnes of Scope 1 CO 2e 
emissions, mainly from the fuel we used. This figure includes 
emissions from reductants used in our metallurgical 
smelters and from the incineration of biomass. It also 
includes methane emissions from our operations, which 
make up more than 30% of our Scope 1 emissions.
CO 2 emissions arising from our use of purchased electricity, 
steam or heat, Scope 2 emissions, totalled 13.7 million 
tonnes. Our Scope 3 emissions include emissions from 
sources, including shipping, land transportation by third 
parties and the use of our energy products.
For our business, reporting a normalised CO 2 emissions 
figure or reporting ratios of CO 2 to production, financial 
results or employee headcount does not meaningfully 
contribute to any understanding of our performance. 
This is due to the diversity of our business. The scope 
and range of our products make it impossible to calculate 
a single production figure and our financial results are 
affected by commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, 
which are outside our control. As a result of the nature 
of the exploration, development and production cycle, 
our CO 2 emissions do not necessarily correlate to our 
employee headcount.
We publicly report to CDP’s Carbon Disclosure Programme. 
Our 2015 score was 99C and our submission is available on 
the CDP website: www.cdp.net
 
Greenhouse gas emissions
million tonnes CO
2
*
40
30
20
10
0
Scope 1 Scope 2
2013 2014 2015
*Scope 1 emissions are measured in CO
2
e
Management of our water footprint 
Water is an essential input for our business activities, while 
more than half of our operations are located in water-stressed 
areas. We are committed to managing our impact on water 
resources responsibly. We are implementing new technologies 
to help minimise or eliminate water discharge.
Wherever we can, we prioritise efficient water use, water 
reuse/recycling, responsible waste water disposal and 
maintenance of any equipment that might pose a hazard to 
water quality. We engage with local water users to avoid 
material adverse impacts on the quality and quantity of 
local water sources or compromising their access to water.
During 2015, we completed a strategic water management 
framework, which defines Glencore’s strategic objectives, 
priority areas and associated timelines for the realisation of 
our defined goals 
The metrics we use to measure our water performance have 
been harmonised and aligned with the Water Accounting 
Framework (WAF) of the Minerals Council of Australia. 
Going forward, operations that have been identified as 
high-risk sites will be assessed to identify areas 
for improvement. 
In 2015, we withdrew 952 million m
3
 of water, compared 
with 996 million m
3
 in 2014. 
Water withdrawn
million
3
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
2013 2014* 2015
965
996
952
*Restated primarily due to improved estimation methods at three sites.
We publicly report to the CDP’s water 
disclosure programme. 25 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Responsible waste management
Most of the waste that we generate from our extraction 
and processing operations is mineral; this includes tailings, 
slag and rock. Our operations have rigorous waste 
management systems to dispose of waste while preventing 
environmental contamination. We reuse as much waste as 
possible, including using waste rock to backfill our mines.
Our metal and coal assets generate tailings, which 
are stored in purpose-built tailings storage facilities. 
The tailings are placed in specially designed ponds 
filled with tailings and water; over time, the water 
evaporates while the tailings settle, eventually filling 
the dam. At this point, the dam is capped, sealed and 
rehabilitated. Our tailings facilities are monitored 
continuously to ensure integrity and structural stability. 
Flooding and seismic activity are the main natural 
phenomena that may affect them. 
We operate a number of tailings dams and waste-containing 
compounds across the world. These facilities are at different 
lifecycle stages: under construction, operational and 
post-rehabilitation. 
In 2014, we conducted a survey of all Group tailings dams, 
supervised by the Board’s HSEC Committee. The key 
findings were presented to the HSEC Committee. As a result 
of the survey, the HSEC Committee required all surface 
tailings facilities to have an independent inspection report 
that is no more than three years old. 
Following the devastating tailings dam failure in Brazil 
during 2015, we re-examined our most recent review of 
our tailings dams. During 2016, a special review will be 
undertaken for the dams identified as being the most at risk.
During 2015, our hazardous and non-hazardous mineral 
waste totalled 2,084 million tonnes, a slight decrease 
on 2014.
Minimising air emissions
Wherever we operate, we comply with relevant regulatory 
limits and international standards for air emissions. 
Our open cut operations emit dust from excavation and 
movement of material. We monitor dust levels at affected 
communities and minimise dust in a number of ways. 
Our SO 2 emissions in 2015 totalled 366,000 tonnes, 
compared to 431,000 in 2014. The decrease is primarily due 
to operational changes at Mopani and Mount Isa Mines.
Managing the closure of operations
We require each operation to continuously maintain a 
closure plan throughout its lifecycle, including appropriate 
financial provisions. As some of our operations enter 
suspension or closure, we are aware of the importance 
of managing our environmental impacts throughout. 
We work closely with our host communities to manage the 
transition and identify opportunities for delivering positive, 
lasting change.
Further information on our approach towards sustainability 
is available in our annual sustainability report and on our 
website: www.glencore.com/sustainability 26 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Key performance indicators
Our financial and non-financial key performance indicators (KPIs) provide a measure of our performance against the key 
drivers of our strategy. All 2013 financial KPIs are presented on a pro forma basis.
Net income
US$ million
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2013 2014 2015
Definition
Net income is income that is attributable to 
equity shareholders pre-significant items.
2015 performance
2015 net income was $1.3 billion, down 69% 
compared to 2014, reflecting the 68% 
reduction in EBIT, as a result of weaker 
commodity prices. 
Financial key performance indicators
Definition
Adjusted EBIT /EBITDA, as defined in note 2 
to the financial statements, provide insight 
into our overall business performance 
(a combination of cost management, seizing 
market opportunities and growth), and are 
the corresponding flow drivers towards 
achieving an industry-leading return on 
equity. Adjusted EBIT is revenue less cost of 
goods sold and selling and administrative 
expenses, plus share of income from 
associates and dividend income as disclosed 
on the face of the consolidated statement of 
income, excluding significant items. 
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT 
plus depreciation and amortisation.
2015 performance
2015 Adjusted EBITDA was $8.7 billion, down 
32% compared to 2014, while Adjusted EBIT 
was $2.2 billion, down 68% compared to 2014, 
predominantly due to significantly lower 
average commodity prices, net of producer 
country currency depreciation; in addition, 
for Adjusted EBIT, due to the relatively fixed 
non-cash depreciation charge. Against such 
backdrop, significant operating cost savings 
were achieved through a relentless focus on 
all areas of the business.
2013 2014
Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
US$ million
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
2015
EBIT EBITDA
Definition
Funds from operations (FFO) is a measure 
that reflects our ability to generate cash for 
investment, debt servicing and distributions 
to shareholders. FFO comprises cash 
provided by operating activities before 
working capital changes, less tax and net 
interest payments plus dividends received.
2015 performance
2015 FFO was $6.6 billion, down 35% 
compared to 2014, reflective of the year over 
year decrease in Adjusted EBITDA owing to 
the impact of the weaker commodity 
price environment.
Funds from operations (FFO)
US$ million
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
2013 2014 2015
Definition
Net debt demonstrates how our debt is being 
managed and is an important factor in 
ensuring we maintain an investment grade 
rating status and an attractive cost of capital. 
In addition, the relationship of FFO to net debt 
is an indication of our financial flexibility 
and strength. 
Net debt is defined as total current and 
non-current borrowings less cash and 
cash equivalents, marketable securities 
and readily marketable inventories.
2015 performance
As at 31 December 2015, net funding and net 
debt were $41.2 billion and $25.9 billion,  
respectively, down significantly, reflecting the 
relentless focus on capital efficiency (reduced 
capital expenditure and working capital 
levels), the $2.5 billion equity placing and our 
asset disposal programme, including the sale 
of a silver stream.
Net funding/Net debt and FFO 
to net debt
US$ million
52,000
39,000
26,000
13,000
0
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
%
Net debt
Net funding
FFO to net debt
2013 2014 2015 27 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Non-financial key performance indicators
T otal recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR) 
number
9
6
3
0
2013 2014 2015
Definition
We believe that every work-related incident, 
illness and injury is preventable and we are 
committed to providing a safe workplace. 
The total recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR) is the sum of fatalities, lost time 
injuries, restricted work injuries and medical 
treatment injuries per million hours worked. 
The metric represents all injuries that require 
medical treatment beyond first aid.
2015 performance 
It is with regret that during 2015, ten people 
lost their lives at our operations 
(2014: 16 fatalities).
Our 2015 TRIFR of 5.06 is a 13% improvement 
over the 2014 TRIFR of 5.82. Our long-term 
goal for TRIFR is to achieve a 50% reduction 
by 2020, using our 2014 TRIFR of 5.82 as the 
baseline. Our 2015 TRIFR is ahead of the 
progressive improvement required to meet 
this long-term goal.
Definition
Community investments are our contributions 
to, and financial support of, the broader 
communities in the regions where we operate.
Funds are set aside to support initiatives that 
benefit communities and local sustainable 
development. We also make in-kind 
contributions, such as equipment and 
management. We support programmes 
for community development, enterprise 
and job creation, health, education and 
the environment.
2015 performance
In 2015, the funds we made available for 
community investments were $94 million, 
a decrease on the amount invested in 2014 
($114 million).
Community investment spend
US$ million
200
150
100
50
0
2013 2014 2015
Definition
Our CO 2 emissions reporting is separated 
into Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 
includes emissions from combustion in 
owned or controlled boilers, furnaces and 
vehicles/vessels, coal seam emissions and 
rice cultivation. Scope 2 consists of emissions 
arising from our use of purchased electricity, 
steam or heat.
We monitor and report both the direct and 
indirect emissions generated by the 
operational activities, entities and facilities 
in which we have a controlling stake.
2015 performance
We divide CO 2 emissions reporting into three 
different scopes, in line with the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol. 
During 2015, we emitted 23.4 million tonnes of 
Scope 1 (direct) CO 2e emissions mainly from 
fuel usage. Our Scope 2 (indirect) CO 2 
emissions, totalled 13.7 million tonnes. 
Our Scope 3 emissions include emissions from 
a broad range of sources, including shipping, 
land transportation by third parties and the 
use of our energy products.
Greenhouse gas emissions
million tonnes CO
2*
40
30
20
10
0
Scope 1 Scope 2
2013 2014 2015
*Scope 1 emissions are measured in CO
2
e
Definition
Water withdrawal is a measure of our 
operational resource efficiency.
Our operations have an ongoing responsibility 
to increase the reuse of processed and use of 
recycled wastewater in order to reduce our 
impact on local water supplies. Recycled water 
is predominantly used in place of fresh water 
for processes such as dust suppression.
2015 performance
In 2015, we used 952 million m
3
 of water, 
a decrease on 2014 (996 million m
3
), primarily 
due to production cuts.
During 2015, we completed a strategic water 
management framework, which defines 
Glencore’s strategic objectives, priority areas 
and associated timelines for achieving its 
defined goals.
Water withdrawn
Million m
3
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
2013 2014* 2015
*Restated primarily due to improved estimation methods at three sites.
Safety 28 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Our risk management framework identifies and manages 
risk in a way that is supportive of our strategic priorities 
of opportunistically deploying capital, while protecting 
our future financial security and flexibility. Our approach 
towards risk management is framed by the ongoing challenge 
of our understanding of the risks that we are exposed to, 
our risk appetite and how these risks change over time. 
The Board assesses and approves our overall risk appetite, 
monitors our risk exposure and sets the Group-wide limits, 
which are reviewed on an ongoing basis. This process is 
supported by the Audit and HSEC Committees, whose roles 
include evaluating and monitoring the risks inherent in 
their respective areas as described on pages 85 to 88. 
Our current assessment of our risks, according to exposure 
and impact, is detailed on the following pages. In compiling 
this assessment we have indicated the impact of these risks 
in comparison with a year ago in the table below.
The commentary on the risks in this section should be read 
in conjunction with a commentary under Understanding the 
information on risks which is set out on the next page.
To the extent that any of these risks are realised, they may 
affect, among other matters: our current and future business 
and prospects, financial position, liquidity, asset values, 
growth potential, sustainable development (whether as to 
adverse health, safety, environmental, community effects 
or otherwise) and reputation.
The natural diversification of our portfolio of commodities, 
geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities is a source 
of mitigation for many of the risks we face. In addition, 
through our governance processes as noted previously and 
our proactive management approach we seek to mitigate, 
where possible, the impacts of certain risks should they 
materialise. In particular:
•  our liquidity risk management policy requires us to 
maintain (via a $3 billion minimum prescribed level) 
sufficient cash and cash equivalents and other sources of 
committed funding available to meet anticipated and 
unanticipated funding needs;
• making use of credit enhancement products, such as 
letters of credit, insurance policies and bank guarantees 
and imposing limits on open accounts extended;
• our management of marketing risk, including daily 
analysis of Group value at risk (VaR); and
• adhering to the principles encapsulated in the 
Glencore Corporate Practice (GCP) programme.
Risk management is one of the key responsibilities of the Board and  
its Audit and HSEC Committees. Our principal risks and uncertainties 
– whether under our control or not – are highly dynamic and our 
assessment and our responses to them are critical to our future  
business and prospects. 
2015 developments and overview of principal risks and uncertainties
• Reductions in commodity prices
•  Fluctuations in supply of or demand for commodities
• Fluctuations in currency exchange rates
•  Health, safety, environment, including 
potential catastrophes 
• Liquidity risk
• Emissions and climate change
• Counterparty credit and performance
• Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate
• Geopolitical risk
• Community relations
•  Sourcing, freight, storage infrastructure and logistics
•  Development and operating risks and hazards
•  Cost control
• Employees
Key
  Risk impact       Low       Medium       High Risk exposure       Increase       Decrease       Static 29 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
2015 developments 
The significant falls in commodity prices experienced 
during 2015 and the pessimistic medium-term outlook 
of many commodity market commentators make this 
the Group’s foremost risk. The price declines in our 
commodities generally, and especially copper and coal, have 
been a severe drag on our financial performance and have 
led to concerns by external stakeholders as to the strength 
of the Group’s balance sheet. 
• The reductions in commodity prices reflect the actual, 
perceived or prospective increases in supply of commodities 
and/or reductions in demand.
• The general appreciation of the US dollar during 2015, 
particularly against the currencies of emerging and 
commodity producing countries, has contributed to 
commodity price fluctuations. Although the strength 
of the US dollar is generally beneficial to our operating 
costs, this gain is more than outweighed by disruption in 
the world economy and substantial falls in 
commodity prices.
In response to the above financial challenges, capital 
expenditure programmes were cut significantly, working 
capital is being managed down, certain loss-making 
operations were shut, some profitable production was 
suspended, non-core precious metal reserves were 
monetised, and a $2.5 billion equity placement was 
implemented. The Company is  also seeking to take further 
initiatives than were announced in its September debt 
reduction programme in order to achieve higher credit 
ratings than it has currently.
The tailings dam collapses in Canada and Brazil and the 
Turkish coal mine disaster experienced in the last two years 
by other mining companies are reminders of major 
catastrophes that represent significant unquantifiable 
risks for resources companies and as a result this remains 
a leading topic subject to challenge and monitoring. 
During 2015, the HSEC Committee sponsored the launch of a 
new sustainability risks assurance process. Its initial focus 
has been on the Group’s catastrophic hazards.
Understanding the information on risks
There are many risks and uncertainties which have the 
potential to significantly impact our business, including 
competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, social, 
business and financial risk. The order in which these risks 
and uncertainties appear does not necessarily reflect the 
likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude 
of their potential material adverse effect on our business.
We have sought to provide examples of specific risks. 
However, in every case these do not attempt to be an 
exhaustive list. These principal risks and uncertainties should 
be considered in connection with any forward looking 
statements in this document as explained on page 202.
Identifying, quantifying and managing risk is complex 
and challenging. Although it is our policy and practice 
to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively 
manage such risks to support objectives in managing 
capital and future financial security and flexibility, our 
policies and procedures may not adequately identify, 
monitor and quantify all risks.
The comments below describe our attempts to manage, 
balance or offset risk. Risk is, however, by its very nature 
uncertain and inevitably events may lead to our policies 
and procedures not having a material mitigating effect 
on the negative impacts of the occurrence of a particular 
event. Since many risks are connected, our analysis should 
be read against all risks to which it may be relevant. 
In this section, we have sought to update our explanations, 
reflecting our current outlook.
Mostly this entails emphasising certain risks more 
strongly than other risks rather than the elimination of, 
or creation of, risks. To understand the changes in outlook 
and for more detail on certain risks, our previous annual 
reports are on our website at: www.glencore.com/
investors/reports-and-results/reports/
To provide for concise text:
• where we hold minority interests in certain businesses, 
although these entities are not generally subsidiaries, 
the interests are mostly taken as being referred to in 
analysing these risks, and “business” refers to these 
and any business of the Group;
• where we refer to natural hazards, events of nature 
or similar phraseology we are referring to matters 
such as earthquake, flood, severe weather and other 
natural phenomena;
• in each case our mitigation of risks will include the 
taking out of insurance where it is customary and 
economic to do so;
• “risks” include uncertainties;
• “laws” include regulations of any type;
• a reference to a note is a note to the 2015 financial 
statements; and
• we have referred to our 2015 Sustainability Report 
which will be published in April 2016. 30 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Comments
External
Reductions in commodity prices
The revenue and earnings of substantial parts of our industrial 
activities and, to a lesser extent, our marketing activities, are 
dependent upon prevailing commodity prices. Commodity  
prices are influenced by a number of external factors, including 
the supply of and demand for commodities, speculative 
activities by market participants, global political and economic 
conditions, related industry cycles and production costs in 
major producing countries. 
A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally 
results in a decline in our profitability and could potentially 
result in impairment and balance sheet constraints. It is 
especially harmful to profitability in the industrial activities, 
which are more directly exposed to price risk due to the higher 
level of fixed costs, while our marketing activities are ordinarily 
substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally 
operate a service-like margin-based model.
The significant falls in prices experienced during 2015 and 
the pessimistic medium-term outlook of many commodity 
market commentators make this the Group’s foremost risk. 
The continued price declines in our commodities generally, 
and especially copper and coal, have been a severe drag on 
our financial performance and have led to material concerns 
as to the Group’s indebtedness levels. 
The Group is implementing a significant programme  
of activities in response, as summarised on the previous page.  
See the Chief Executive Officer’s review on page 4 and the 
financial review on pages 36 - 41.
Details of  the significant impairments recorded during the year 
are contained in note 5. The valuations used for this analysis 
remain sensitive to price and further deterioration in the price 
outlook may result in additional impairments.
Against the backdrop of these fluctuations, as we would expect, 
there were no breaches during 2015 of our $100 million Group 
VaR limit pertaining to our marketing activities – see page 83.
Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand for, 
the commodities in which we operate
We are dependent on the expected volumes of supply or 
demand for commodities in which we are active, which can 
vary for many reasons, such as competitor supply policies, 
changes in resource availability, government policies and 
regulation, costs of production, global and regional economic 
conditions and events of nature.
This risk is currently prevalent, with demand growth 
uncertainty in various commodities we produce and market, 
notably within steel, coal and oil markets. 
See the Chief Executive Officer’s review on page 4.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates
The vast majority of our transactions are denominated in 
US dollars, while operating costs are spread across many 
different countries, the currencies of which fluctuate against 
the US dollar. A depreciation in the value of the US dollar 
against one or more of these currencies will result in an increase 
in the cost base of the relevant operations in US dollar terms. 
The main currency exchange rate exposure is through our 
industrial assets, as a large proportion of the costs incurred by 
these operations is denominated in the currency of the country 
in which each asset is located. The largest of these exposures 
is to the currencies listed on page 44.
This risk is currently prevalent in our industry. However, 
these fluctuations tend to move in symmetry with those in 
commodity prices and supply and demand fundamentals 
as noted above, such that decreases in commodity prices are 
generally associated with increases in the US dollar relative 
to local producer currencies and vice versa. Consequently, the 
current relative strength of the US dollar has been beneficial to 
us through lower equivalent US dollar operating costs at many 
of our operations. This positive, however, has been more than 
offset by the disruption to the world economy and 
the substantial falls in commodity prices described above.
Geopolitical risk
We operate and own assets in a large number of geographic 
regions and countries, some of which are categorised as 
developing, complex or having unstable political or social 
climates. As a result, we are exposed to a wide range of 
political, economic, regulatory and tax environments. Policies  
or laws in these countries may change in a manner that may 
be adverse for us. Also, some countries with more stable 
political environments may nevertheless change policies 
and laws in a manner adverse to us. We have no control over 
changes to policies, laws and taxes.
The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large 
number of regions and countries, if realised, could affect our 
ability to manage or retain interests in our industrial activities.
During 2015, we were subject to significant changes in fiscal 
policy from countries in South America, Africa and Asia Pacific 
and we expect this trend to continue in 2016 as the global 
geopolitical climate continues to evolve, partly affected by falls 
in commodity prices.
Risks can also arise from the announcement and/or 
implementation of reductions in workforces and temporary or 
permanent production stoppages.
See map on pages 8 and 9 that sets out our global 
operational footprint. 31 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Risk Comments
Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate
We are exposed to and subject to extensive laws including 
those relating to bribery and corruption, taxation, anti-trust, 
financial markets regulation, management of natural resources, 
licences over resources owned by various governments, 
exploration, production and post-closure reclamation. 
The terms attaching to any permit or licence to operate may 
also be onerous. Furthermore, in certain countries title to land 
and rights and permits in respect of resources are not always 
clear or may be challenged. 
The legal system and dispute resolution mechanisms in  
some countries may be uncertain so that we may be unable 
to enforce our understanding of our title, permits or other 
rights. Lawsuits may be brought, based upon damage resulting 
from past and current operations, and could lead to the 
imposition of substantial sanctions, the cessation of operations, 
compensation and remedial and/or preventative orders. 
Moreover, the costs associated with legal compliance, including 
regulatory permits, are substantial. Any changes to these laws 
or their more stringent enforcement or restrictive interpretation 
could cause additional material expenditure to be incurred 
(including in our marketing business) or impose suspensions of 
operations and delays in the development of industrial assets. 
Failure to obtain or renew a necessary permit could mean that 
we would be unable to proceed with the development or 
continued operation of an asset.
A dispute relating to an industrial asset could disrupt or delay 
relevant extraction, processing or other projects and/or impede 
our ability to develop new industrial properties. 
We are committed to complying with or exceeding the laws  
and external requirements applicable to our operations and 
products. Through this and monitoring of legislative 
requirements, engagement with government and regulators, 
and compliance with applicable permits and licences, we strive 
to ensure full compliance. We also seek to manage these risks 
through the Glencore Corporate Practice (GCP) programme. 
Its practical application across our business is detailed in our 
code of conduct (www.glencore.com/who-we-are/corporate-
governance/policies/code-of-conduct/) and this framework 
is reflected in our Sustainability Reports. The Group’s anti-
corruption policy may also be found at: www.glencore.com/
who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies/global-anti-
corruption-policy/ . 
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of proposed 
regulations to govern commodity market participants 
(principally MiFID 2) in Europe.
New and proposed further changes to the rules of the London 
Metal Exchange (“LME”) have contributed to significant 
reductions in premiums in LME aluminium prices and 
indirectly to a $119 million goodwill impairment of our 
Pacorini metals warehousing business -  see page 134 and notes 
5 and 9.
Liquidity risk
Our failure to access funds (liquidity) would severely limit our 
ability to engage in desired activities. 
Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to meet our payment 
obligations when due, or are unable, on an ongoing basis, to 
borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis 
at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments. 
While we adjust our minimum internal liquidity threshold 
from time to time in response to changes in market conditions, 
this minimum internal liquidity target may be breached due to 
circumstances we are unable to control, such as general market 
disruptions, sharp movements in commodity prices or an 
operational problem that affects our suppliers, customers 
or ourselves.
A lack of liquidity may mean that we will not have funds 
available to maintain or increase marketing and industrial 
activities, both of which employ substantial amounts of capital. 
If we do not have funds available to sustain or develop our 
marketing and industrial activities then these activities 
will decrease. 
Note 25 details our financial and capital risk 
management approach.
During 2015, the Group had been subject to considerable 
market speculation as to its medium-term funding position. 
Glencore Funding Factsheet, a summary of the Group’s financing 
arrangements is available at: www.glencore.com/assets/
investors/doc/debt-investor/GLEN-2015-Glencore-plc-update-
and-details-of-funding-structure-6Oct2015.pdf.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had available undrawn 
committed credit facilities and cash amounting to $15.2 billion 
(31 December 2014: $9.4 billion), comfortably ahead of our 
$3 billion minimum prescribed level. 
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have both reduced the 
Company’s investment grade credit rating by one notch to 
BBB- (stable) and Baa3 (stable) respectively. 32 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Comments
Business activities
Counterparty credit and performance
Financial assets consisting principally of marketable securities, 
receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long-term 
advances and loans can expose us to concentrations of credit risk.
Furthermore, we are subject to non-performance risk by our 
suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties, in particular 
via our marketing activities.
Non-performance by suppliers, customers and hedging 
counterparties may occur and cause losses in a range of 
situations, such as:
•  a significant increase in commodity prices resulting in 
suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual 
commitments to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices;
•  a significant reduction in commodity prices resulting 
in customers being unwilling or unable to honour their 
contractual commitments to purchase commodities at  
pre-agreed prices; and
•  suppliers subject to prepayment or hedging counterparties 
may find themselves unable to honour their contractual 
obligations due to financial distress or other reasons.
We monitor the credit quality of our counterparties and seek 
to reduce the risk of customer non-performance by requiring 
credit support from creditworthy financial institutions 
including making extensive use of credit enhancement 
products, such as letters of credit, insurance policies and 
bank guarantees. Specific credit risk policy rules apply to open 
account risk with an established threshold for referral of credit 
positions by departments to central management. In addition, 
note 25 details our financial and capital risk 
management approach.
Sourcing, freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics
Our marketing activities require access to significant amounts 
of third party supplies of commodities, freight, storage, 
infrastructure and logistics support and we are exposed to 
reduced accessibility and/or increased pressure in the costs 
of these. In addition, we often compete with other producers, 
purchasers or marketers of commodities or other products 
for limited storage and berthing facilities at ports and freight 
terminals, which can result in delays in loading or unloading of 
products and expose us to significant delivery interruptions. 
Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure 
and logistics support, or limitations or interruptions in the 
supply chain (including any disruptions, refusals or inabilities 
to supply), could adversely affect our business. 
Our global network of infrastructure and logistics operations 
such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, metals and other 
warehouses and grain silos assists in mitigating risks related 
to disruptions to or limitations of sourcing, freight, storage, 
infrastructure and logistics.
See map on pages 8 and 9 that sets out our global 
operational footprint. 33 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Risk Comments
Development and operating risks and hazards
Our industrial activities are subject to numerous risks and 
hazards normally associated with the initiation, development, 
operation and/or expansion of natural resource projects, many 
of which are beyond our control. These include unanticipated 
variations in grade and other geological problems (so that 
anticipated or stated reserves, resources or mineralised 
potential may not conform to expectations and in particular 
may not reflect the reserves and resources which the Group 
reports and as a result the anticipated volumes or grades may 
not be achieved). Other examples include seismic activity, 
natural hazards, processing problems, technical and IT 
malfunctions, unavailability of materials and equipment, 
unreliability and/or constraints of infrastructure, industrial 
accidents, labour force insufficiencies, disruptions and disputes, 
disasters, protests, force majeure factors, cost overruns, delays in 
permitting or other regulatory matters, vandalism and crime. 
Cyber crime can also have materially adverse consequences 
for our marketing and industrial businesses - see also page 34.
The development and operating of assets may lead to future 
upward revisions in estimated costs, completion delays, cost 
overruns, suspension of current projects or other operational 
difficulties. Risks and hazards could result in damage to, 
or destruction of, properties or production facilities, may cause 
production to be reduced or to cease at those properties or 
production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality 
of the products, personal injury or death, third party damage  
or loss, and may result in actual production differing from 
estimates of production. 
Natural hazards, sabotage or other interference in operations, 
could increase costs or delay supplies. In some locations poor 
quality infrastructure is endemic. The realisation of these 
development and operating risks and hazards could require 
significant and additional capital and operating expenditures  
to fund abatement, restoration or compensation to third parties 
for any loss and/or payment of fines or damages.
Development and operating risks and hazards are managed 
through our continuous development status evaluation and 
reporting processes and ongoing assessment, reporting 
and communication of the risks that affect our operations 
through the annual risk review processes and updates to the 
risk register. 
We publish quarterly our production results and annually 
our assessment of reserves and resources based on available 
drilling and other data sources. 
Production at Koniambo (Nickel) was partially suspended 
during 2015 following detection of a metal leak at the 
metallurgical plant. 
In 2015, the ongoing technical challenges of processing oxide 
concentrates at our Katanga operation led us to commission a 
whole ore leaching process, similar to that already operating 
successfully at Mutanda.
Availability of continuous high-voltage power continues 
to be of critical importance to our copper operations in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo. We are continuing to invest 
in long-term power solutions via the Inga dam refurbishment. 
At both Katanga and Mopani, we have taken advantage of a 
lower-price copper environment to focus on the whole ore 
leaching project (Katanga) and the Synclinorium and Mopani 
Deeps projects (Mopani) via suspension or reduction of certain 
processing operations. 
During 2015, the Board received and discussed a presentation 
on cyber security from the Group Head of IT. 
See also page 34 for our assessment of and programmes to 
mitigate our health, safety and environmental risks and in 
particular catastrophic risks. 
Cost control
As commodity prices are outside of our control, the 
competitiveness and sustainable long-term profitability of our 
industrial asset portfolio depends significantly on our ability 
to closely manage costs and maintain a broad spectrum 
of low-cost, efficient operations. Costs associated with the 
operation of our industrial assets can be broadly categorised 
into labour costs and other operating and infrastructure costs. 
Overall production and operating costs are heavily influenced 
by the extent of ongoing development required, ore grades, 
mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy and 
supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.  
All of our industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by 
changes in costs for labour and fuel. Unit production costs are 
also significantly affected by production volumes and therefore 
production levels are frequently a key factor in determining 
the overall cost competitiveness of an industrial asset.
In the current challenging lower-margin environment, there is 
notably a greater emphasis on the need to reduce costs and/or 
curtail activities.
Maintaining costs and, where possible, lowering them is 
supported by our reporting on these measures, coupled 
with the inclusion of certain cost control evaluation measures 
in assessing management performance. 34 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Comments
Sustainable development
Health, safety, environment, including 
potential catastrophes
Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental 
laws along with compliance with our corporate sustainability 
framework. The processes and chemicals used in extraction  
and production methods, as well as transport and storage,  
may impose environmental hazards. A serious failure in 
these areas could lead to an emergency or catastrophe at a site. 
Environmental hazards may affect not only our properties 
but also third parties. The storage of tailings at our industrial 
assets and the storage and transport of oil are material 
examples of these risks.
Environmental (including those associated with particular 
environmental hazards) and health and safety laws may 
result in increased costs or, in the event of non-compliance or 
incidents causing injury or death or other damage at or to our 
facilities or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, 
including arising from (1) interruptions in production, litigation 
and imposition of penalties and sanctions and (2) having 
licences and permits withdrawn or suspended or being forced 
to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for 
government-ordered remedial clean-up actions. In each case 
liability may arise where the hazards have been caused by any 
previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, 
by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, or by 
third parties. 
Catastrophes can also arise due to cyber attacks, e.g. 
where there is malicious interference with operational software 
at industrial assets.
Our approach to sustainability and our expectations of our 
employees, our contractors and our business partners are 
outlined in our sustainability programme. This underpins 
our approach towards social, environmental, safety and 
compliance indicators, providing clear guidance on the 
standards we expect all our operations to achieve. 
Through the reporting function within the programme, our 
Board and senior management receive regular updates and 
have a detailed oversight on how our business is performing 
across all of the sustainability indicators. We monitor 
catastrophic risks, in particular across our portfolio, 
and operate emergency response programmes.
Compliance with international and local regulations and 
standards are our top priorities. Our operating procedures 
and those of our partners in relation to owned tankers 
conform to industry best practice working under the guidelines 
of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), relevant 
Flag States and top tier classification societies.
We remain focused on the significant risks facing our industry 
arising from operational catastrophes such as the examples of 
tailings dam collapses in Canada and Brazil and the Turkish 
coal mine disaster experienced in the last two years. 
During 2015, the HSEC Committee sponsored the launch of 
a new sustainability risks assurance process. Its initial focus 
has been on the Group’s catastrophic hazards and in 2015, it 
received 12 reports on these hazards across a wide range of the 
Group’s industrial assets.
In addition, ongoing investment continues in the Group’s 
SafeWork health and safety programme.
See also pages 18 to 25. Further details will also be published 
in our 2015 Sustainability Report.
Emissions and climate change
Our global presence exposes us to a number of jurisdictions 
in which regulations or laws have been or are being considered 
to limit or reduce emissions. The likely effect of these changes  
will be to increase the cost for fossil fuels, impose levies for 
emissions in excess of certain permitted levels and increase 
administrative costs for monitoring and reporting. Third  
parties, including potential or actual investors, may also 
introduce policies adverse to the Company due to its activities 
in  fossil fuels. 
Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including 
the progressive introduction of carbon emissions trading 
mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets is likely 
to raise costs and reduce demand growth.
Through our sustainability programme (operated under our 
GCP framework), we strive to ensure emissions and climate 
change issues are identified, understood and effectively 
managed and monitored in order to meet international best 
practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance. We seek 
to ensure that there is a balanced debate with regard to the 
ongoing use of fossil fuels.
Our 2015 Sustainability Report will provide further details 
of the operation of our community engagement programme, 
including the international standards to which we 
voluntarily submit.
In recent months, there have been announcements by some 
investment groups regarding the introduction of, or tightening 
of, policies concerning reduced investment in fossil fuel 
intensive companies. 
It should be noted that in 2015 around 5% and 26% of 
our revenue and EBITDA respectively were derived from coal 
and oil industrial activities.  35 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Risk Comments
Community relations
The continued success of our existing operations and our 
future projects are in part dependent upon broad support and 
a healthy relationship with the respective local communities. 
A perception that we are not respecting or advancing the 
interests of the communities in which we operate, could have a 
negative impact on our ‘‘social licence to operate’’ , our ability to 
secure access to new resources and our financial performance. 
The consequences of negative community reaction could also 
have a material adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability 
to finance or even the viability of an operation and the safety 
and security of our workforce and assets. Such events could 
lead to disputes with governments, with local communities or 
any other stakeholders, and give rise to reputational damage. 
Even in cases where no adverse action is actually taken, the 
uncertainty associated with such instability could negatively 
impact the perceived value of our assets.
We believe that the best way to manage these vital relationships 
is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue and cooperation. 
In doing so, we engage with local communities to demonstrate 
our operations’ contribution to socio-economic development 
and seek to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to 
prevent or mitigate possible adverse impacts on the 
communities, along with the regular reporting as outlined on 
our website at: www.glencore.com/sustainability/our-
approach-to-sustainability/communities/engagement/ .
Employees
The maintenance of positive employee and union relations and 
the ability to attract and retain skilled workers, including senior 
management are key to our success. This can be challenging, 
especially in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or 
in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions. 
Many employees are represented by labour unions under 
various collective labour agreements. Their employing 
company may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its 
collective labour agreements when they expire and may face 
tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would be 
the case for non-unionised labour. In addition, existing labour 
agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
We understand that one of the key factors in our success  
is a good and trustworthy relationship with our people. 
This priority is reflected in the principles of our sustainability 
programme and related guidance, which require regular, 
open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for 
human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, 
a safe working environment, as outlined on our website at: 
www.glencore.com/careers/our-people/ . 36 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Financial review
Highlights
US$ million 2015 2014 Change %
Key statement of income and cash flows highlights
1
:
Adjusted EBITDA
2
8,694 12,764 (32)
Adjusted EBIT
2
2,172 6,706 (68)
Net income attributable to equity holders pre-significant items
3
1,342 4,285 (69)
Earnings per share (pre-significant items) (Basic) (US$) 0.10 0.33 (70)
Net (loss)/income attributable to equity holders (4,964) 2,308 n.m.
Funds from operations (FFO)
4,5
6,615 10,169 (35)
Capital expenditure (excluding Las Bambas of $961 million in 2014) 5,957 8,566 (30)
US$ million 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Change %
Key financial position highlights:
Total assets 128,485 152,205 (16)
Current capital employed (CCE)
5
 12,443 21,277 (42)
Net funding
4
41,245 49,758 (17)
Net debt
4
25,889 30,532 (15)
Ratios: 
FFO to Net debt
4
25.6% 33.3% (23)
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA 2.98x 2.39x 25
Adjusted EBITDA to net interest 6.24x 8.68x (28)
1 Refer to basis of preparation on page 37.
2  Refer to note 2 of the financial statements for definition and reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA.
3 Refer to significant items table on page 38.
4 Refer to page 40.
5 Refer to glossary for definition.
  37 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Basis of presentation 
The reported financial information has been prepared on the basis as outlined in note 1 of the financial statements with 
the exception of the accounting treatment applied to certain associates and joint ventures for which Glencore’s attributable 
share of revenues and expenses are presented (see note 2) and is presented in the Financial Review section before significant 
items unless otherwise stated to provide an enhanced understanding and comparative basis of the underlying financial 
performance. Significant items (refer to page 38) are items of income and expense which, due to their financial impact and 
nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are separated for internal reporting and analysis of 
Glencore’s results.
Financial results
Adjusted EBITDA was $8,694 million and Adjusted EBIT was $2,172 million, decreases of 32% and 68% respectively 
compared to 2014, mainly due to sharply lower average commodity prices in 2015, net of producer country currency 
depreciation. Against such backdrop, significant operating cost savings were achieved through a relentless focus on all 
areas of the business, including supply chain, contractor management and employee productivity, while decisive action 
was also taken to reduce supply and associated capex/opex, notably within our coal, zinc, copper and oil portfolio. 
Adjusted EBITDA/EBIT
Adjusted EBITDA by business segment is as follows:
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities
2015 
Adjusted 
EBITDA
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities
2014 
Adjusted 
EBITDA %
Metals and minerals 1,280 4,030 5,310 1,545 7 ,077 8,622 (38)
Energy products 826 2,269 3,095 565 2,841 3,406 (9)
Agricultural products 584 150 734 996 213 1,209 (39)
Corporate and other (30) (415) (445) (105) (368) (473) n.m.
Total 2,660 6,034 8,694 3,001 9,763 12,764 (32)
Adjusted EBIT by business segment is as follows:
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities
2015 
Adjusted 
EBIT
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities
2014 
Adjusted 
EBIT %
Metals and minerals 1,255 148 1,403 1,515 3,674 5,189 (73)
Energy products 778 (88) 690 524 486 1,010 (32)
Agricultural products 461 63 524 856 136 992 (47)
Corporate and other (30) (415) (445) (105) (380) (485) n.m.
Total 2,464 (292) 2,172 2,790 3,916 6,706 (68)
Marketing Adjusted EBITDA and EBIT decreased by 11% and 12% to $2,660 million and $2,464 million respectively: 
• Metals and minerals Adjusted marketing EBIT, was down 17% over 2014, reflecting tough trading conditions in 
H1 (as noted in the 2015 Half-Year Report), particularly in aluminium and nickel, with headwinds respectively, from a 
collapse in physical premiums and subdued levels of global stainless steel production. The stronger H2 performance, on 
an annualised basis, came in 7% above 2014’s result. 
• Energy products Adjusted marketing EBIT was up 48% compared to 2014, as oil in particular was presented with and 
executed well within an attractive, opportunity rich market environment. 
• The Agricultural products Adjusted marketing EBIT was down 46% compared to 2014, in large part due to the high 
comparable base (exceptionally strong Canadian harvest) and the immediate imposition of a punitive wheat export 
tax in Russia in Q1.  38 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Financial review
Industrial Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 38% to $6,034 million (Adjusted EBIT was negative $292 million, due to the 
relatively fixed non-cash depreciation charge), owing primarily to weaker average year over year commodity prices 
including oil, nickel, coal, copper and zinc down 46%, 30%, ~20%, 20% and 11% respectively, partially mitigated by weaker 
producer currencies (notably the Kazakhstan Tenge, South African Rand and Australian and Canadian dollars, down 
relative to the US dollar, by 24%, 18%, 20% and 16% respectively). The delivery of significant operating cost reductions and 
productivity efficiencies were also positive drivers in 2015, offsetting the near-term volume impact of curtailing output 
across a number of operations to preserve resource value for the long term. 
Earnings 
A summary of the differences between reported Adjusted EBIT and income attributable to equity holders, including 
significant items, is set out in the following table:
US$ million 2015 2014
Adjusted EBIT
1
2,172 6,706
Net finance and income tax expense in certain associates and joint ventures
1
(159) (329)
Net finance costs (1,394) (1,439)
Income tax benefit/(expense)
7
362 (499)
Non-controlling interests 361 (154)
Income attributable to equity holders pre-significant items 1,342 4,285
Earnings per share (Basic) pre-significant items (US$) 0.10 0.33
Significant items impacting Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBIT
Share of Associates’ exceptional items
2
(88) (74)
Unrealised intergroup loss/(profit) elimination and other
3
445 (221)
357 (295)
Other expense – net
4
(7 ,998) (1,073)
Write off of capitalised borrowing costs
5
– (32)
(Losses)/gains on disposals and investments
6
(994) 715
Income tax expense
7
(460) (1,310)
Non-controlling interests’ share of other income
8
2,789 18
Total significant items (6,306) (1,977)
(Loss)/income attributable to equity holders (4,964) 2,308
Earnings per share (Basic) (US$) (0.37) 0.18
1 Refer to note 2 of the financial statements.
2 Recognised within share of income from associates and joint ventures, see note 2 of the financial statements.
3 Recognised within cost of goods sold, see note 2 of the financial statements. 
4 Recognised within other expense – net, see notes 2 and 4 of the financial statements.
5 Recognised within interest expense.
6 See note 3 of the financial statements.
7 Refer to glossary for the allocation of the total income tax benefit/(expense) between pre-significant and significant items.
8 Recognised within non-controlling interests. 39 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Significant items
Significant items are items of income and expense which, 
due to their financial impact and nature or the expected 
infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are separated 
for internal reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results to 
provide a better understanding and comparative basis of 
the underlying financial performance. 
In 2015, Glencore recognised a net $6,306 million of 
significant items, including $460 million of largely foreign 
exchange related income tax expense adjustments. The net 
expense comprises primarily impairments of $1,424 million 
($3,989 million less $2,565 million attributable to non-
controlling interests) related to Koniambo nickel and 
$1,031 million related to Chad oil and a $1,034 million loss 
(including $311 million of foreign currency translation losses 
previously recognised in equity) on cessation of control of 
Optimum Coal, placed into business rescue proceedings 
in August 2015, with subsequent sale agreed. See notes 
3, 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further explanations.
In 2014, Glencore recognised $1,977 million of net other 
significant expenses, including $1,310 million of income 
tax expense. Due to the challenging platinum market and 
following the decisions to slow down iron ore development 
in Mauritania and Congo and limit further oil exploration 
activities at the Matanda block in Cameroon, impairment 
charges of $146 million, $489 million and $212 million were 
recognised respectively. These impairments were offset by 
a gain of $715 million (before related tax of $531 million) on 
the disposal of Las Bambas. Apart from the Las Bambas tax 
on disposal, a net $779 million of significant tax expense was 
recorded, primarily due to the currency translation effect 
of deferred tax balances, owing to the stronger US dollar, 
particularly against the Australian dollar. 
Net finance costs
Net finance costs were $1,394 million in 2015 compared 
to $1,471 million ($1,439 million on a pre-exceptional 
basis) incurred during the comparable reporting period. 
Interest income in 2015 was $191 million, consistent with the 
prior year. On a pre-exceptional basis, interest expense in 
2015 was $1,585 million, a 6% reduction from $1,692 million 
in 2014, reflecting the lower average debt levels. 
Income taxes
An income tax expense of $98 million was recognised during 
2015 compared to an income tax expense of $1,809 million 
in 2014. Based on our capital and business structure, income 
tax expense pre-significant items should approximate 
Adjusted EBIT for marketing and industrial assets less an 
allocated interest expense multiplied by an estimated tax 
rate of 10% and 25% respectively. This has been reflected in 
the table above. Refer to the glossary for a reconciliation of 
this calculation. 
The 2015 reported income tax expense includes $307 million 
(2014: $779 million) of income tax expense due to foreign 
exchange fluctuations, primarily the currency translation 
effect on deferred tax balances, owing to the stronger US 
dollar, particularly against the Tenge and Australian dollar 
and adjustments to previously recognised deferred tax 
assets. The 2014 statutory income tax expense includes 
$531 million of taxes in respect of the sale of Las Bambas. 
Assets, leverage and working capital 
Total assets were $128,485 million as at 31 December 
2015 compared to $152,205 million as at 31 December 
2014, a period over which, current assets decreased from 
$53,219 million to $42,198 million, due to sizeable reductions 
in receivables and inventories, contributing to the overall 
reduction in current capital employed/net working capital. 
Non-current assets decreased from $98,986 million to 
$86,287 million, primarily due to the various impairments 
and disposals referred to above.  40 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Financial review
Cash flow and net funding/debt
Net funding
US$ million 31.12.2015 31.12.2014
Gross debt 44,049 52,693
Associates and joint ventures net funding
1
(58) (80)
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (2,746) (2,855)
Net funding 41,245 49,758
Cash and non-cash movements in net funding
US$ million 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 7,454 10,978
Legal settlement and incremental metal leak costs (via statement of income) 264 –
Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA
2
995 1,552
Net interest paid (1,085) (1,211)
Tax paid
1
(1,072) (1,257)
Dividends received from associates
1
59 107
Funds from operations 6,615 10,169
Net working capital changes (excluding silver streaming proceeds)
1
 6,585 (540)
Silver streaming proceeds 900 –
Payments of non-current advances and loans
1
101 (518)
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries (106) 4,690
Purchase and sale of investments (195) (310)
Purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment (excl. Las Bambas)
1
(5,688) (8,360)
Purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment – Las Bambas – (961)
Net margin (call)/receipts in respect of financing related hedging activities (618) 10
Acquisition and disposal of additional interests in subsidiaries – (101)
Share issuance 2,444 –
Distributions paid and purchase of own shares (2,695) (3,256)
Legal settlement and incremental metal leak costs (refer above) (264) –
Cash movement in net funding 7,079 823
Foreign currency revaluation of borrowings and other non-cash items 1,434 1,635
Total movement in net funding 8,513 2,458
Net funding, beginning of period (49,758) (52,215)
Net funding, end of period (41,245) (49,758)
Less: Readily marketable inventories
3
15,356 19,226
Net debt, end of period (25,889) (30,532)
1 Adjusted to include the impacts of proportionate consolidation of certain associates and joint ventures as outlined in the glossary.
2 See note 2 of the financial statements.
3 Refer to glossary for definition.
The reconciliation in the table above is the method by which management reviews movements in net funding and net debt 
and comprises key movements in cash and any significant non-cash movements on net funding items.  41 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Net funding as at 31 December 2015 decreased by 
$8,513 million to $41,245 million from $49,758 million as at 
31 December 2014, aided by $6,585 million of working capital 
release (including $5,410 million of inventories), a 32% 
reduction in net capital expenditure (excluding Las Bambas) 
and the receipt of $900 million under a silver streaming 
arrangement. The net working capital reduction was 
primarily the result of lower commodity prices compared 
to 31 December 2014, however proactive management was 
overlaid to ensure effective and efficient deployment thereof. 
Business and investment acquisitions and disposals
Net expenditure on business acquisitions and investments 
in 2015 was $301 million, due primarily to three agriculture 
initiatives namely in Germany (rapeseed crushing facility), 
in Brazil (a 50% interest in grain handling/port facilities) 
and in Canada (oil seed crushing plant), as this segment 
further enhances its global capabilities. The net inflow 
on acquisitions/disposals in 2014 was $4,690 million, due 
primarily to the sale of Las Bambas ($6.5 billion, net of 
tax), offset by the purchase of Caracal ($1.5 billion) and 
Zhairemsky zinc/lead ($291 million).
Liquidity and funding activities
In 2015, the following significant financing activities 
took place:
• In March, issued in two tranches EUR 2.0 billion 
of interest bearing notes as follows:
 – 6 year EUR 1,250 million, 1.250% fixed coupon bonds; 
and 
 – 10 year EUR 750 million, 1.750% fixed coupon bonds.
• In April, issued in four tranches $2.25 billion of interest 
bearing notes as follows:
 – 3 year $500 million, 2.125% fixed coupon bonds;
 – 3 year $250 million, LIBOR plus 1.06% floating rate bond; 
 – 5 year $1,000 million, 2.875% fixed coupon bonds; and
 – 10 year $500 million, 4.0% fixed coupon bonds. 
• In May, signed new revolving credit facilities for a total 
amount of $15.25 billion, which extended and refinanced 
previous revolving credit facilities. The facilities comprise:
 – a $8.45 billion 12 month revolving credit facility with 
a 12 month term-out option and 12 month extension 
option; and 
 – a $6.8 billion 5 year revolving credit facility with two 
12 month extension options.
• In June 2015, Glencore issued 7 year JPY 40 billion 
of 1.075% fixed coupon bonds. In December 2015, 
Glencore converted JPY 30 billion of such bonds 
into new 7 year $250 million LIBOR plus 1.650% 
coupon bonds; the balance of JPY 10 billion of these 
bonds remains outstanding.
• In September, placed 1.3 billion new ordinary shares, 
raising gross proceeds of approximately $2.5 billion. 
• In October, redeemed (1st call date) perpetual bonds 
with a nominal value of $350 million.
• In Q4 2015, repurchased bonds with a nominal value 
of $564 million, comprising primarily 2016 and 
2017 maturities.
In February 2016, Glencore announced that it has signed 
a new revolving credit facility, which will ultimately 
refinance and replace the existing $8.45 billion facility. 
In pre-syndication, $7.7 billion of commitments from 
37 banks were signed into and in Q2 2016 the refinancing 
will be broadened via launch of general syndication to some 
30 additional banks. Consistent with the current facility, 
this new facility remains unsecured, containing a 12 month 
extension option and 12 month borrower’s term-out option, 
thereby extending the final maturity to May 2018.
As at 31 December 2015, Glencore had available committed 
undrawn credit facilities and cash amounting to 
$15.2 billion. 
Credit ratings
In light of the Group’s extensive funding activities, 
maintaining an investment grade credit rating status is 
a financial priority/target. The Group’s credit ratings are 
currently Baa3 (stable) from Moody’s and BBB- (stable) 
from Standard & Poor’s. 
Value at risk
One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit 
its primary market risk exposure, namely commodity 
price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the 
use of a value at risk (“VaR”) computation. VaR is a risk 
measurement technique which estimates the potential loss 
that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements 
in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific 
level of confidence. The VaR methodology is a statistically 
defined, probability-based approach that takes into 
account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification 
by recognising offsetting positions and correlations 
between commodities and markets. In this way, risks can be 
measured consistently across all markets and commodities 
and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk 
value. Glencore has set a consolidated VaR limit (1 day 95%) 
of $100 million representing some 0.2% of equity, which was 
not exceeded during the year. Glencore uses a VaR approach 
based on Monte Carlo simulations and is either a one-day or 
one-week time horizon computed at a 95% confidence level 
with a weighted data history.
Average market risk VaR (1 day 95%) during 2015 was 
$35 million, representing less than 0.1% of equity. 
Average equivalent VaR during 2014 was $36 million. 42 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report 
Highlights
Metals and minerals total Adjusted EBITDA 
was $5,310 million, down 38% compared to 2014. 
The key driver was clearly commodity prices which reduced 
significantly in most key markets, reflecting widespread 
fears as to China’s decelerating rate of growth, the strong  
US dollar, lower oil prices and other general deflationary 
cost drivers. The weaker economic conditions and bearish 
sentiment surrounding China pressurised commodity 
prices throughout the year. In addition, from H2 2014, 
prompted by the dramatic fall in oil prices, investors 
accelerated their liquidation of existing commodity long 
positions accumulated through indices and commodity 
basket ETFs. On the supply side, there remains too much 
“sticky” higher cost supply, which delays the eventual 
rebalancing of markets to more sustainable levels. 
In response, however, Glencore has acted decisively in 
curtailing a sizeable amount of its copper and zinc 
production, with the aim of supporting prices near term and 
preserving scarce resources and value for the future. 
In contrast with these severe challenges, Marketing 
performed solidly, delivering EBITDA of $1,280 million. 
While this was down 17% on 2014, the reduction occurred in 
the first half, on account of the collapse in aluminium 
physical premiums and weakness in the global stainless 
steel industry, impacting our nickel and ferroalloys 
businesses. The stronger H2 performance, on an annualised 
basis, came in 7% above 2014, reflecting the underlying 
strength and consistency of this business. Industrial EBITDA 
declined from $7 ,077 million to $4,030 million reflecting 
lower metals’ prices (net of foreign currency benefits, 
proactive efficiency and cost reduction drives and the 
passive lowering of other input costs e.g. oil) and the 
associated incremental costs associated with the decisions to 
curtail copper production at Katanga and Mopani and zinc 
production at Mount Isa and McArthur River. 
5,310
Adjusted EBITDA
US$ million
1,403
Adjusted EBIT
US$ million
1,280 2015
1,515 2014
Marketing activities
4,030 2015 Industrial activities
Marketing activities
1,545 2014
1,622 2013
7,077 2014
1,643 2013
7,203 2013
4,036 2013 3,674 2014
1,255 2015
148 2015 Industrial activities
2015 2014 2013
2015 2014 2013
Metals and 
minerals 43 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 44 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Metals and minerals
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2015
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2014
Revenue 41,151 24,782 65,933 35,025 31,025 66,050
Adjusted EBITDA 1,280 4,030 5,310 1,545 7 ,077 8,622
Adjusted EBIT 1,255 148 1,403 1,515 3,674 5,189
Adjusted EBITDA margin 3.1% 16.3% 8.1% 4.4% 22.8% 13.1%
Market conditions
Selected average commodity prices
2015 2014 Change %
S&P GSCI Industrial Metals Index 291 349 (17)
LME (cash) copper price ($/t) 5,503 6,866 (20)
LME (cash) zinc price ($/t) 1,928 2,164 (11)
LME (cash) lead price ($/t) 1,785 2,096 (15)
LME (cash) nickel price ($/t) 11,835 16,892 (30)
Gold price ($/oz) 1,160 1,266 (8)
Silver price ($/oz) 16 19 (16)
Metal Bulletin cobalt price 99.3% ($/lb) 13 14 (7)
LME (cash) aluminium price ($/t) 1,662 1,869 (11)
Metal Bulletin alumina price ($/t) 300 331 (9)
Metal Bulletin ferrochrome 6-8% C basis 60% Cr, max 1.5% Si (¢/lb) 94 105 (10)
Platinum price ($/oz) 1,054 1,385 (24)
Iron ore (Platts 62% CFR North China) price ($/DMT) 56 97 (42)
Currency table
Average  
2015
Spot  
31 Dec 2015
Average  
2014
Spot  
31 Dec 2014
Change in 
average %
AUD : USD 0.75 0.73  0.90  0.82 (17)
USD : CAD 1.28 1.38 1.10 1.16 16
USD : COP 2,749 3,175 2,002 2,377 37
EUR : USD 1.11 1.09  1.33  1.21 (17)
GBP : USD 1.54 1.47  1.65  1.56 (7)
USD : CHF 0.96 1.00  0.92  0.99 4
USD : KZT 223 341  179  182 25
USD : ZAR 12.78 15.47  10.85  11.57 18 45 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Marketing
Highlights
Adjusted EBIT was $1,255 million, down 17% from $1,515 million, reflecting tough trading conditions in H1, particularly in 
aluminium and nickel, with headwinds respectively, from a collapse in physical premiums and subdued levels of global 
stainless steel production. The stronger H2 performance, on an annualised basis, came in 7% above 2014’s result.
Financial information
US$ million 2015 2014 Change % 
Revenue 41,151 35,025 17
Adjusted EBITDA 1,280 1,545 (17)
Adjusted EBIT 1,255 1,515 (17)
Selected marketing volumes sold
Units 2015 2014 Change %
Copper metal and concentrates
1
mt 3.1 2.8 11
Zinc metal and concentrates
1
mt 3.1 3.4 (9)
Lead metal and concentrates
1
mt 1.1 0.8 38
Gold moz 1.9 1.5 27
Silver moz 89.3 66.2 35
Nickel kt 231 203 14
Ferroalloys (incl. agency) mt 5.0 4.2 19
Alumina/aluminium mt 13.6 11.7 16
Iron ore mt 41.2 66.0 (38)
1 Estimated metal unit contained. 46 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Metals and minerals
Copper
As detailed in the Highlights section, ongoing bearish 
sentiment and liquidation by investors of commodity long 
positions contributed to the copper market recording its 
fifth consecutive year of declining prices, with average 
prices falling 20% to $5,503/t compared to $6,866/t in 2014.
2015 saw demand growth in the major consuming regions, 
including China at ~5%. However, Chinese demand growth 
was lower than earlier market consensus, under pressure 
from weakness in the construction sector and some residual 
impact from the anti-corruption investigations on 
infrastructure spending. Copper supply growth also 
contracted due to slower than expected mine ramp-ups and, 
in this price environment, mine cutbacks and scrap 
shortages. 
Zinc
A reasonable supply of concentrates during the first three 
quarters of the year resulted in strong zinc metal production 
from both Chinese and rest of the world smelters, including 
India. This combined with lower than expected demand 
growth, from emerging markets in particular, put pressure 
on metal prices and premiums worldwide.
Q4 mine closures and cutbacks then impacted metal 
production. China’s lower domestic output (accounting for 
40-45% of global zinc consumption) left it requiring zinc 
metal imports and/or exchange inventory drawdowns. 
Net metal imports into China were up 4.7% in 2015 at 433kt, 
with 225kt in Q4 alone.
We expect this trend to continue in 2016. Mine production 
has seen curtailments of some 1.2 million tonnes (~9% of 
2015 global production) and the concentrate tightness 
should continue to be felt in the zinc metal market. 47 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Nickel
The nickel market in 2015 was disappointing as global 
output failed to adjust sufficiently to weaker demand 
growth and high inventory levels, despite most of the 
industry operating at a loss. 
In 2015, nickel consumption increased only moderately  
as demand for nickel in stainless steel was largely flat and 
growth in non-stainless applications was limited, despite 
notable strength in the aerospace and battery sectors. 
While global nickel supply did contract (mainly due to 
lower Chinese nickel pig iron output), the level of cuts was 
not reflective of the degree of industry hardship and 
insufficient to balance the market.
Consequently, the market was again oversupplied,  
driving further increases in global inventory levels. 
These fundamental developments occurred amid a collapse 
in general commodity market sentiment, resulting in a 41% 
fall in the LME nickel price from $14,880/t at the start of 2015 
to $8,780/t at year end.
While the fundamental outlook for nickel now appears 
brighter, with the market ending the year in balance, 
following improved Q4 demand and continued supply-side 
adjustments, further supply cuts are required to support 
materially higher prices, absent a significant pickup in 
demand.
Ferroalloys
Global oversupply of chrome ore and ferrochrome, coupled 
with the weakness in stainless steel demand noted above, 
led prices to fall significantly towards the end of the year. 
Currency devaluation in key supply regions offered support 
to ferrochrome producers, but did not prevent some smelter 
shutdowns in H2.
Manganese ore prices continued to decline due to 
oversupply, while manganese alloy prices also came under 
pressure during the year due to the weakness in the global 
steel market.
Reduced Chinese demand, coupled with lower Western 
demand, specifically from Oil and Gas applications, resulted 
in lower vanadium prices as the year progressed. 48 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Metals and minerals
Alumina/Aluminium
Average LME aluminium prices decreased by 11% during 
2015 to $1,662/t compared to $1,869/t in 2014. Premium levels 
decreased significantly from an average of $340-$365/t to 
$160-$185/t, largely due to LME rule changes, combined 
with record Chinese aluminium production and exports. 
The decrease in the net all-in price received by producers 
meant that a large portion of the market was unable to meet 
its costs of production in 2015. 
Indications for aluminium premiums for duty unpaid, 
in-warehouse material at the beginning of 2015 were within 
the $400-$430/t range and the 2015 year-end level was 
around $100-$125/t. 
The FOB Australia alumina price opened 2015 at $355/t and 
closed at $199, representing the price range for the year.
Iron Ore
The iron ore market weakened during the year, due to 
increased supply of iron ore and lower steel production 
in China. The Q1 price movement was particularly severe, 
followed by some stability during the middle part of the 
year and another decrease in the Q4, as steel production 
cuts intensified. Premiums were relatively stable during 
the year.  49 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Industrial activities
Highlights
The Industrial business was heavily characterised by Glencore’s decisions in H2 to suspend production at Katanga, 
Lady Loretta (Mount Isa zinc) and Iscaycruz (Los Quenuales) and dramatically reduce production at Mopani, George Fisher 
(Mount Isa zinc) and McArthur River. The suspensions/reductions at Katanga and Mopani are intended to support the 
market in the nearer term, while also enabling uninterrupted focus on their respective transformation and upgrade projects 
in the interim. EBITDA declined from $7 ,077 million to $4,030 million reflecting the lower metals’ prices (net of foreign 
currency benefits, proactive efficiency and cost reduction drives and the passive lowering of other input costs e.g. oil) and 
the associated incremental costs associated with the decisions to curtail copper and zinc production. 
Financial information 
US$ million 2015 2014 Change % 
Revenue
Copper assets
African copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani) 3,038 3,954 (23)
Collahuasi
1
876 1,311 (33)
Antamina
1
702 845 (17)
Other South America (Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui) 1,943 2,732 (29)
Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar) 2,049 2,388 (14)
Custom metallurgical (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR) 5,988 6,756 (11)
Intergroup revenue elimination (172) (220) n.m.
Copper 14,424 17,766 (19)
Zinc assets
Kazzinc 2,244 2,517 (11)
Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River) 1,211 1,293 (6)
European custom metallurgical (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva,  
Nordenham, Northfleet) 1,172 2,201 (47)
North America (Matagami, Kidd, Brunswick, CEZ Refinery) 1,084 1,148 (6)
Other Zinc (AR Zinc, Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, Rosh Pinah, Perkoa) 632 744 (15)
Intergroup revenue elimination – (192) n.m.
Zinc 6,343 7,711 (18)
Nickel assets
Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk) 1,340 2,450 (45)
Australia (Murrin Murrin) 600 834 (28)
Nickel 1,940 3,284 (41)
Ferroalloys 1,717 1,789 (4)
Aluminium/Alumina 358 475 (25)
Metals and minerals revenue – segmental measure 24,782 31,025 (20)
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (1,578) (2,156) n.m.
Metals and minerals revenue – reported measure 23,204 28,869 (20)
1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs. 50 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Metals and minerals
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBIT
US$ million 2015 2014 Change % 2015 2014 Change %
Copper assets
African copper 51 1,001 (95) (533) 475 (212)
Collahuasi
1
343 692 (50) 85 452 (81)
Antamina
1
463 600 (23) 220 410 (46)
Other South America 718 1,222 (41) 202 821 (75)
Australia 414 563 (26) 48 294 (84)
Custom metallurgical 301 228 32 210 177 19
Copper 2,290 4,306 (47) 232 2,629 (91)
Adjusted EBITDA mining margin
2
23% 36%
Zinc assets
Kazzinc 490 591 (17) 44 241 (82)
Australia 284 305 (7) (81) (7) n.m.
European custom metallurgical 168 179 (6) 81 89 (9)
North America 121 225 (46) 21 91 (77)
Other Zinc 10 97 (90) (141) (51) n.m.
Zinc 1,073 1,397 (23) (76) 363 (121)
Adjusted EBITDA mining margin
2
18% 21%
Nickel assets
Integrated Nickel Operations 421 908 (54) (64) 424 (115)
Australia 32 130 (75) (7) 83 (108)
Falcondo – (7) (100) – (7) n.m.
Nickel 453 1,031 (56) (71) 500 (114)
Adjusted EBITDA margin 23% 31%
Ferroalloys 271 307 (12) 138 162 (15)
Aluminium/Alumina (43) 35 (223) (60) 20 n.m.
Iron ore (14) 1n.m. (15) –n.m.
Metals and minerals  
Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – segmental measure 4,030 7,077 (43) 148 3,674 (96)
Adjusted EBITDA mining margin
2
21% 30%
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (595) (678) n.m. (94) (248) n.m.
Metals and minerals  
Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – reported measure 3,435 6,399 (46) 54 3,426 (98)
1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs.
2  Adjusted EBITDA mining margin is Adjusted EBITDA (excluding custom metallurgical assets) divided by Revenue (excluding custom metallurgical assets and intergroup revenue 
elimination), i.e. the weighted average EBITDA margin of the mining assets. Custom metallurgical assets include the Copper custom metallurgical assets and Zinc European custom 
metallurgical assets and the Aluminium/Alumina group, as noted in the table above. 51 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
2015 2014
US$ million Sustaining Expansion Total Sustaining Expansion Total
Capex
Copper assets
African copper 390 756 1,146 602 788 1,390
Collahuasi
1
100 5 105 175 6 181
Antamina
1
182 5 187 169 18 187
Las Bambas ––– –961 961
Other South America 464 67 531 475 64 539
Australia 198 23 221 283 71 354
Custom metallurgical 178 124 302 144 166 310
Copper 1,512 980 2,492 1,848 2,074 3,922
Zinc assets
Kazzinc 189 37 226 195 57 252
Australia 357 29 386 455 199 654
European custom metallurgical 79 – 79 53 15 68
North America 62 9 71 76 19 95
Other Zinc 102 – 102 166 – 166
Zinc 789 75 864 945 290 1,235
Nickel assets
Integrated Nickel Operations 140 88 228 172 158 330
Australia 20 – 20 14 – 14
Koniambo –360 360 –823 823
Other nickel projects (including Falcondo) –44 –1010
Nickel 160 452 612 186 991 1,177
Ferroalloys 118 25 143 144 95 239
Aluminium/Alumina 19 18 37 23 7 30
Iron ore 1 – 1 –7272
Capex – segmental measure 2,599 1,550 4,149 3,146 3,529 6,675
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (282) (10) (292) (344) (24) (368)
Capex – reported measure 2,317 1,540 3,857 2,802 3,505 6,307
1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs. 52 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Metals and minerals
Production data
Production from own sources – Total
1
2015 2014 Change %
Copper kt 1,502.2 1,546.0 (3)
Zinc kt 1,444.8 1,386.5 4
Lead kt 297.7 307.5 (3)
Nickel kt 96.2 100.9 (5)
Gold
2
koz 964 992 (3)
Silver
2
koz 36,592 35,530 3
Cobalt kt 23.0 20.7 11
Ferrochrome kt 1,462 1,295 13
Platinum
2
koz 158 173 (9)
Palladium
2
koz 202 199 2
Rhodium
2
koz 18 19 (5)
Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 20.9 20.8 –
Production from own sources – Copper assets
1
2015 2014 Change %
African Copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani)
Copper metal
2
kt 421.9 465.0 (9)
Cobalt
3
kt 19.4 17.2 13
Collahuasi
4
Copper metal kt 9.8 11.0 (11)
Copper in concentrates kt 190.6 196.0 (3)
Silver in concentrates koz 2,828 2,476 14
Antamina
5
Copper in concentrates kt 131.8 116.4 13
Zinc in concentrates kt 79.3 71.2 11
Silver in concentrates koz 5,987 4,049 48
Other South America  
(Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui)
Copper metal kt 71.1 66.6 7
Copper in concentrates kt 272.0 281.1 (3)
Gold in concentrates and in doré koz 318 386 (18)
Silver in concentrates and in doré koz 1,918 1,901 1
Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar)
Copper metal kt 205.6 209.5 (2)
Copper in concentrates kt 50.8 49.6 2
Gold koz 90 62 45
Silver koz 1,723 1,386 24
Total Copper department
Copper kt 1,353.6 1,395.2 (3)
Cobalt kt 19.4 17.2 13
Zinc kt 79.3 71.2 11
Gold koz 408 448 (9)
Silver koz 12,456 9,812 27
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, 
except as stated.
2 Copper metal includes copper contained in copper concentrates and blister.
3 Cobalt contained in concentrates and hydroxides.
4 The Group’s pro-rata share of Collahuasi production (44%).
5 The Group’s pro-rata share of Antamina production (33.75%).
Production from own sources – Zinc assets
1
2015 2014 Change %
Kazzinc
Zinc metal kt 193.4 199.3 (3)
Lead metal kt 26.3 25.7 2
Copper metal kt 51.9 46.8 11
Gold koz 520 506 3
Silver koz 3,653 4,273 (15)
Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River)
Zinc in concentrates kt 750.9 661.6 13
Lead in concentrates kt 216.0 216.4 –
Silver in concentrates koz 8,248 8,319 (1)
North America (Matagami, Kidd)
Zinc in concentrates kt 115.2 135.8 (15)
Copper in concentrates kt 48.3 47.3 2
Silver in concentrates koz 2,368 2,066 15
Other Zinc  
(AR Zinc, Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, Rosh Pinah, Perkoa)  
Zinc metal kt 26.1 23.2 13
Zinc in concentrates kt 279.9 295.4 (5)
Lead metal kt 12.7 11.7 9
Lead in concentrates kt 42.7 53.7 (20)
Copper in concentrates kt 2.4 2.7 (11)
Silver metal koz 691 613 13
Silver in concentrates koz 8,566 9,825 (13)
Total Zinc department 
Zinc kt 1,365.5 1,315.3 4
Lead kt 297.7 307.5 (3)
Copper kt 102.6 96.8 6
Gold koz 520 506 3
Silver koz 23,526 25,096 (6) 53 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Production from own sources – Nickel assets
1
2015 2014 Change %
Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk)
Nickel metal kt 49.1 51.3 (4)
Nickel in concentrates kt 0.5 0.6 (17)
Copper metal kt 14.9 15.7 (5)
Copper in concentrates kt 31.1 38.3 (19)
Cobalt metal kt 0.8 0.8 –
Gold
2
koz 35 37 (5)
Silver
2
koz 610 622 (2)
Platinum
2
koz 76 82 (7)
Palladium
2
koz 157 149 5
Rhodium
2
koz 5 425
Australia (Murrin Murrin)
Nickel metal kt 37.5 36.4 3
Cobalt metal kt 2.8 2.7 4
Koniambo
Nickel in ferronickel kt 9.1 12.6 (28)
Total Nickel department 
Nickel kt 96.2 100.9 (5)
Copper kt 46.0 54.0 (15)
Cobalt kt 3.6 3.5 3
Gold koz 35 37 (5)
Silver koz 610 622 (2)
Platinum koz 76 82 (7)
Palladium koz 157 149 5
Rhodium koz 5 425
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, 
except as stated.
2 INO produces gold, silver and PGM, incidental to its main products of nickel and 
copper, which were previously excluded from Glencore production reports. Details have 
now been included to provide a better understanding of the business and historical 
periods have been updated accordingly.
3 The Group’s attributable 79.5% share of the Glencore-Merafe Chrome Venture.
4 Consolidated 100% of Eland and 50% of Mototolo.
Production from own sources – Ferroalloys assets
1
2015 2014 Change %
Ferrochrome
3
kt 1,462 1,295 13
PGM
4
Platinum koz 82 91 (10)
Palladium koz 45 50 (10)
Rhodium koz 13 15 (13)
Gold koz 1 1–
4E koz 141 157 (10)
Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 20.9 20.8 –
Total production – Custom metallurgical assets
1
2015 2014 Change %
Copper (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR)
Copper metal kt 433.7 433.8 –
Copper anode kt 502.8 493.7 2
Zinc (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva, Nordenham, Northfleet)
Zinc metal kt 788.8 781.8 1
Lead metal kt 199.2 177 .4 12
Silver koz 11,220 9,482 18
Ferroalloys
Ferromanganese kt 146 116 26
Silicon Manganese kt 98 108 (9)
Aluminium (Sherwin Alumina)
Alumina kt 1,175 1,382 (15) 54 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Metals and minerals
Operating highlights
Copper assets
Own sourced copper production of 1,502,200 tonnes was 
43,800 tonnes (3%) lower than 2014, reflecting the impact of 
the announced production cuts in Africa. Positive variances 
were achieved mainly at Antapaccay, following restart of the 
Tintaya mill in May 2015 and at Antamina, on account of 
higher throughput rates.
African copper
Katanga’s processing operations were suspended in 
September, with no production in Q4 2015. Full-year copper 
production from own sources was 113,700 tonnes.
Mopani commenced a partial suspension in September with 
the smelter now operating at reduced capacity during the 
construction period of the new shaft projects. Total copper 
production (own source plus third party) in Q4 2015 was 
30,900 tonnes (12,800 tonnes own sourced), reflecting the 
step-down in operations.
Mutanda continues to operate strongly, with full-year 
production of 216,100 tonnes, 19,000 tonnes (10%) over 2014, 
reflecting the high plant availability and efficiencies over 
a sustained period.
African copper produced 19,400 tonnes of cobalt, 
a 2,200 tonne (13%) increase over 2014.
Collahuasi
Glencore’s share of Collahuasi’s copper production was 
200,400 tonnes, 6,600 tonnes (3%) lower than in 2014, due to 
expected changes in grades. Copper cathode production 
ceased in Q4 2015, following a review of the leaching 
operations.
Antamina
Glencore’s share of Antamina’s copper production was 
131,800 tonnes, 15,400 tonnes (13%) over 2014, due to 
consistently higher throughput rates. Zinc production of 
79,300 tonnes was 8,100 tonnes (11%) above 2014, as a higher 
proportion of zinc containing ore was processed.
Other South America
Copper production of 343,100 tonnes was in line with the 
prior year period, reflecting expected lower production at 
Alumbrera (lower and more variable grades as it nears end 
of mine-life), offset by the successful ramp-up of 
Antapaccay. The Antapaccay plant and Tintaya plant, which 
restarted in May to process concentrates from Antapaccay 
mine, have both performed strongly.
Australia
Copper production from own sources of 256,400 tonnes 
was in line with prior year.
Custom metallurgical assets 
Custom copper cathode production was 433,700 tonnes, 
in line with 2014.
Custom copper anode production was 502,800 tonnes, 
9,100 tonnes higher than 2014, reflecting higher plant 
availability at Altonorte.
Zinc assets 
Total own sourced zinc production for full year 2015 was 
1,444,800 tonnes, 4% higher than 2014, reflecting the 
successful ramp-up of the Australian zinc assets during the 
first nine months of the year. Following the October 2015 
decision to reduce production at a number of assets, Q4 2015 
zinc production was 20% below Q3 2015.
Similarly Q4 2015 lead production was lower, as expected, 
compared to previous quarters, which resulted in total 
full-year own sourced lead production of 297 ,700 tonnes, 
3% lower than in 2014.
Kazzinc
Zinc production from own sources was 193,400 tonnes, 
5,900 tonnes (3%) lower than the comparable period, 
primarily relating to lower zinc head grades from the 
Maleevsky mine. Total zinc production including third 
party material was 304,500 tonnes, in line with 2014. 
Own sourced copper production was 51,900 tonnes, a 
5,100 tonne (11%) increase compared with 2014, due to 
improved plant availability. Total copper production was 
62,200 tonnes, a 7% increase over the comparable period.
Own sourced gold production was 520,000 ounces and total 
gold production was 674,000 ounces, in line with 2014.
Lead production from own sources was 26,300 tonnes, 
600 tonnes (2%) higher than 2014. Total lead production was 
6,700 tonnes (5%) lower than 2014, due to unscheduled 
maintenance at the furnace.
Australia
The expansion projects at Lady Loretta, George Fisher (both 
Mount Isa) and McArthur River have been successfully 
completed. However, as announced in October, production 
cuts have been enacted at all these properties, in light of 
current low commodity prices, with a view to preserving 
the value of these reserves for the future.
Zinc production of 750,900 tonnes was 89,300 tonnes (13%) 
higher than 2014, due to the timing of the ramp-ups from 
2014 and 2015, prior to the production suspensions/
reductions noted above. 55 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Lead production was 216,000 tonnes, slightly lower than the 
comparable period, reflecting the impact of the production 
cuts implemented in Q4 2015.
North America 
North America produced 115,200 tonnes of zinc and 48,300 
tonnes of copper, respectively 20,600 tonnes (15%) lower and 
1,000 tonnes (2%) higher than 2014. The decrease in zinc was 
due primarily to lower grades at Matagami.
Other Zinc
This group of assets produced 306,000 tonnes of zinc, 12,600 
(4%) tonnes lower than 2014, mainly due to the announced 
suspension of the Iscaycruz mine.
Lead production was 55,400 tonnes, a 15% reduction on the 
comparable period, mainly relating to lower head grades at 
Rosh Pinah and AR Zinc.
European custom metallurgical assets 
Zinc European custom metallurgical assets produced 
788,800 tonnes, 1% higher than in 2014.
Lead production was 199,200 tonnes, up 12%, reflecting 
a full year contribution from Northfleet, compared to the 
temporary supply disruption which existed in 2014.
Nickel assets 
Nickel production from own sources was 96,200 tonnes, 
4,700 tonnes (5%) lower than 2014, reflecting the impact 
of the metal leak at Koniambo in December 2014 and the 
planned extended shutdown at the Sudbury smelter.
Integrated Nickel Operations (“INO”)
INO produced 49,600 tonnes of nickel from own sources, 
a 2,300 tonne (4%) reduction on 2014, mainly due to the 
planned six-week Sudbury smelter shutdown. Total refinery 
production, including third party feed, was 91,200 tonnes, 
in line with the comparable period. 
Copper production from own sources was 46,000 tonnes, 
an 8,000 tonne (15%) reduction compared to the prior year 
period, mainly due to anticipated lower copper grades 
at Sudbury.
Murrin Murrin
Murrin produced 37 ,500 tonnes of packaged nickel metal 
from own sources, a 1,100 tonne (3%) increase over 2014. 
Total production, including third party material, was 
46,700 tonnes, a 6% increase over 2014, reflecting strong 
plant availability.
Koniambo 
Koniambo produced 9,100 tonnes of nickel in ferronickel, 
a 3,500 tonne (28%) decrease on 2014, due to the impact of 
the metal leak. The Line 1 DC furnace has now been rebuilt 
and furnace pre-heating started on 28 November 2015, with 
first metal tapped as planned in January 2016. The testing 
of Line 1 is expected to continue over H1 2016 and subject 
to successful evaluation, Line 2 will be taken out of service 
and rebuilt. It is currently expected that any Line 2 rebuild 
would commence no earlier than 2018.
Ferroalloys assets 
Ferrochrome
Attributable own sourced ferrochrome production was 
1,462,000 tonnes, a 167 ,000 tonne (13%) increase on 2014. 
The increase mainly relates to Lion 2, which started 
production in H1 2014 and is now fully ramped up.
Platinum Group Metals
4E production was 141,000 ounces, of which 104,000 ounces 
was from Glencore’s 50% share of Mototolo and 37 ,000 
from Eland.
Due to continued low platinum prices and operational 
challenges, the Eland mine was placed on care and 
maintenance in October 2015.
Vanadium
Vanadium pentoxide production of 20.9 million lbs was in 
line with 2014.
Manganese
Manganese production of 244,000 tonnes was 20,000 tonnes 
(9%) in excess of 2014, reflecting higher utilisation at 
both plants.
Aluminium assets 
Sherwin Alumina
Sherwin produced 1,175,000 tonnes of alumina, a 207 ,000 
tonne (15%) reduction on the prior year. This was principally 
due to running at reduced capacity since July 2014 in 
response to a weak alumina market.
Sherwin entered Chapter 11 proceedings in January 2016. 
The business continues to operate in the ordinary course 
during the restructuring process. 56 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
3,095
Adjusted EBITDA
US$ million
690
Adjusted EBIT
US$ million
 826  2015
 524  2014
Marketing activities
 2,269  2015 Industrial activities
Marketing activities
 565  2014
 629  2013
 2,841  2014
 666  2013
 3,378  2013
 1,244  2013 486  2014
 778  2015
(88)  2015 Industrial activities
2015 2014 2013
2015 2014 2013
Highlights
Energy products’ Adjusted EBITDA of 
$3,095 million was 9% lower than in 2014, 
reflecting the impact of lower prices across  
the coal and oil Industrial businesses. 
Marketing EBITDA increased from $565 million to 
$826 million, as oil in particular was presented with and 
executed well within an attractive, opportunity-rich market 
environment. Industrial EBITDA declined from 
$2,841 million to $2,269 million, due to substantially lower 
coal and oil prices, partly offset by significant operating cost 
reductions and efficiencies and the weaker producer country 
foreign currencies. In response to lower prices, coal 
production was curtailed, while the oil exploration 
programme in Chad was significantly scaled back.
Energy
products 57 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 58 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Energy products
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2015
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2014
Revenue 75,206 8,406 83,612 120,863 11,117 131,980
Adjusted EBITDA 826 2,269 3,095 565 2,841 3,406
Adjusted EBIT 778 (88) 690 524 486 1,010
Adjusted EBITDA margin 1.1% 27.0% 3.7% 0.5% 25.6% 2.6%
Market conditions
Selected average commodity prices
2015 2014 Change %
S&P GSCI Energy Index 175 311 (44)
Coal API4 ($/t) 57 72 (21)
Coal Newcastle (6,000) ($/t) 58 70 (17)
Australian coking coal average realised export price ($/t) 97 117 (17)
Australian semi-soft coal average realised export price ($/t) 77 93 (17)
Australian thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 59 72 (18)
Australian thermal coal average realised domestic price ($/t) 33 32 3
South African thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 52 68 (24)
South African thermal coal average realised domestic price ($/t) 24 23 4
Prodeco (Colombia) thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 62 75 (17)
Cerrejón (Colombia) thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 55 67 (18)
Oil price – Brent ($/bbl) 54 99 (45)
Marketing
Highlights
Marketing Adjusted EBITDA increased from $565 million to $826 million, reflecting an improved performance, particularly 
in Oil, where curve structures, market volatility, new business origination opportunities, refining margin environment and 
improved freight rates were all supportive.
Financial information
US$ million 2015 2014 Change %
Revenue 75,206 120,863 (38)
Adjusted EBITDA 826 565 46
Adjusted EBIT 778 524 48
Selected marketing volumes sold
2015 2014 Change %
Thermal coal
1
mt 93.9 95.9 (2)
Metallurgical coal
1
mt 2.5 3.3 (24)
Coke
1
mt 0.7 0.7 –
Crude oil mbbl 566 448 26
Oil products mbbl 634 645 (2)
1 Includes agency volumes. 59 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Coal
The decline in Chinese import demand was the key  
feature of the seaborne thermal coal market in 2015. 
Lower economic growth, some shift away from 
manufacturing, rising hydro and nuclear power supply and 
increased domestic coal supply for coastal ultra-high voltage 
transmission were all important factors that led to such 
decline. Lower gas prices and increased renewable 
generation contributed to a reduction in European coal 
demand, however this was more than offset by demand 
growth in the Mediterranean, Africa, the sub-continent and 
South East Asia, where the need for low-cost, stable power 
supply continues to grow.
On the supply side, low energy coals, principally from 
Indonesia, were most impacted by the declining Chinese 
demand, leading to a significant reduction in Indonesian 
coal exports during 2015. US coal exports also declined as 
falling prices forced mine closures. Supply from Australia, 
Colombia and South Africa remained relatively stable, 
having benefited from weaker domestic currencies and 
reduced quality-based pricing differentials, which is 
supportive of demand for these generally higher-quality 
coals. Changes to demand based on quality are supportive 
of trading and arbitrage opportunities, which are expected 
to continue as the current low market prices contribute to 
further supply reductions during 2016.
Oil
Following a collapse in oil prices in 2014, the first half of 2015 
saw some recovery, with Brent trading in a range of $50 to 
$65 per barrel, the crude oil contango narrowing and 
volatility declining. Sharp increases in demand for motor 
fuels and a very cold winter in the United States provided 
significant fundamental support. However, by the middle 
of the year, a combination of fears over slowing economic 
growth in China and weaker general emerging market 
sentiment, with the realisation that excess crude production 
was not being curtailed, returned the focus to relentless 
stock builds and triggered renewed selling pressure. 
Prices ended the year under sustained pressure as Middle 
East tensions were overshadowed by US dollar strength and 
the prospect of a significant El Niño event for the winter. 
The high market volatility, entrenched contango, a decent 
refinery margin environment and promising returns on 
tanker freight were all factors underpinning strong margins 
in oil marketing activities in 2015.
  60 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Energy products
Industrial activities
Highlights
Industrial Adjusted EBITDA was $2,269 million, a 20% reduction on 2014, due to substantially lower coal and oil prices. 
Significant operating cost savings were achieved through a relentless focus on all areas of the business, including supply 
chain, contractor management and employee productivity, which combined with lower producer country foreign currencies, 
somewhat mitigated the pricing effect. In this regard, the Adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 28% to 29%. 
Optimum Coal (part of Thermal South Africa) was deconsolidated in H2 2015, with sale of the business now concluded and 
expected to close in 2016, following its business rescue proceedings. The remaining coal business is well positioned for price 
recovery. The Oil E&P business showed strong production growth in Chad; however the lowest prices in a decade 
dampened returns and led to a steep scale back in exploration and development activities.
Financial information
US$ million 2015 2014 Change %
Net revenue
Coal operating revenue
Coking Australia 540 749 (28)
Thermal Australia 3,584 4,408 (19)
Thermal South Africa 1,458 2,065 (29)
Prodeco 1,089 1,395 (22)
Cerrejón
1
620 754 (18)
Coal operating revenue 7,291 9,371 (22)
Coal other revenue
Coking Australia 204 369 (45)
Thermal Australia 425 674 (37)
Thermal South Africa 3 19 (84)
Prodeco 2 4(50)
Coal other revenue (buy-in coal) 634 1,066 (40)
Coal total revenue
Coking Australia 744 1,118 (33)
Thermal Australia 4,009 5,082 (21)
Thermal South Africa 1,461 2,084 (30)
Prodeco 1,091 1,399 (22)
Cerrejón
1
620 754 (18)
Coal total revenue 7,925 10,437 (24)
Oil 481 680 (29)
Energy products revenue – segmental measure 8,406 11,117 (24)
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (620) (754) n.m.
Energy products revenue – reported measure 7,786 10,363 (25)
1  Represents the Group’s share of this JV. 61 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBIT
US$ million 2015 2014 Change % 2015 2014 Change % 
Coking Australia 117 171 (32) (33) 38 (187)
Thermal Australia 1,159 1,224 (5) 44 88 (50)
Thermal South Africa 386 450 (14) 56 52 8
Prodeco 228 311 (27) 62 137 (55)
Cerrejón
1
189 260 (27) 3 80 (96)
Total Coal 2,079 2,416 (14) 132 395 (67)
Adjusted EBITDA margin
2
29% 26%
Oil 190 425 (55) (220) 91 n.m.
Adjusted EBITDA margin 40% 63%
Energy products Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – segmental measure 2,269 2,841 (20) (88) 486 (118)
Adjusted EBITDA margin
2
29% 28%
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (251) (261) n.m. (65) (81) n.m.
Energy products Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – reported measure 2,018 2,580 (22) (153) 405 (138)
1 Represents the Group’s share of this JV.
2 Coal EBITDA margin is calculated on the basis of Coal operating revenue, as set out in the preceding table.
2015 2014
US$ million Sustaining Expansion Total Sustaining Expansion Total
Capex
Australia (thermal and coking) 277 177 454 432 368 800
Thermal South Africa 89 120 209 199 312 511
Prodeco 36 5 41 19 17 36
Cerrejón
1
31 5 36 35 64 99
Total Coal 433 307 740 685 761 1,446
Oil 431 132 563 –788 788
Capex – segmental measure 864 439 1,303 685 1,549 2,234
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (31) (5) (36) (35) (64) (99)
Capex – reported measure 833 434 1,267 650 1,485 2,135
1 Represents the Group’s share of this JV. 62 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Energy products
Production data
Coal assets
1
2015 2014 Change %
Australian coking coal mt 5.9 6.0 (2)
Australian semi-soft coal mt 3.6 3.5 3
Australian thermal coal (export) mt 52.4 54.6 (4)
Australian thermal coal (domestic) mt 3.9 5.4 (28)
South African thermal coal (export) mt 19.7 23.4 (16)
South African thermal coal (domestic) mt 17 .3 22.7 (24)
Prodeco mt 17 .6 19.5 (10)
Cerrejón
2
mt 11.1 11.2 (1)
Total Coal department mt 131.5 146.3 (10)
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis except for joint ventures, where the Group’s attributable share of production is included.
2 The Group’s pro-rata share of Cerrejón production (33.3%).
Oil assets
2015 2014 Change %
Glencore entitlement interest basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 4,937 5,072 (3)
Chad kbbl 5,632 2,279 147
Total Oil department kbbl 10,569 7,351 44
Gross basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 22,939 24,232 (5)
Chad kbbl 7,699 4,284 80
Total Oil department kbbl 30,638 28,516 7 63 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Operating highlights
Coal
Coal production was down 10% to 131.5 million tonnes 
primarily due to curtailed production in response to market 
conditions and deconsolidation of Optimum Coal since its 
August 2015 placement into business rescue proceedings.
Australian coking
Production of 5.9 million tonnes was in line with 2014.
Australian thermal and semi-soft
Production of 59.9 million tonnes was 3.6 million tonnes  
(6%) below 2014, reflecting that, in the face of weaker 
markets, production was curtailed.
South African thermal
Production of 37.0 million tonnes was 9.1 million tonnes 
(20%) below the prior year, mainly due to Optimum being 
placed into business rescue proceedings, with associated 
production deconsolidated from August 2015.
Prodeco
Production of 17.6 million tonnes was 1.9 million tonnes 
(10%) lower than 2014, which reflected a scaling back as 
railing capacity was constrained by night time rail 
restrictions which have now been lifted.
Cerrejón
Glencore’s share of production was 11.1 million tonnes,  
in line with the prior year.
Oil
Glencore’s share of production was 10.6 million barrels, 44% 
higher than 2014, following the increase in ownership of the 
Chad assets and first oil from Mangara (Chad) in December 
2014. In light of lower oil prices, the drilling campaign has 
been significantly reduced in order to preserve the resource 
for a more favourable pricing environment. Agricultural 
products
64 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
734
Adjusted EBITDA
US$ million
524
Adjusted EBIT
US$ million
 150  2015
 136  2014
 584  2015 Marketing activities
Industrial activities
 213  2014
 (6)  2013
 996  2014
 61  2013
 383  2013
 198  2013 856  2014
 63  2015
461  2015 Marketing activities
2015 2014 2013
2015 2014 2013
Industrial activities
Highlights
Agricultural products Adjusted EBITDA 
of $734 million was down on 2014, the latter 
benefiting from an exceptionally strong 
Canadian harvest. Furthermore, 2015 was 
adversely impacted by the immediate 
imposition of a punitive wheat export tax 
in Russia in Q1.  
Notwithstanding these external factors, the overall 
business performance was solid, given the reduced 
trading opportunities, constrained by low market prices 
and volatility. We selectively added to our crushing capacity 
in 2015, with two acquisitions in Canada and Germany.  65 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 66 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Agricultural products
US$ million
Marketing  
activities
Industrial 
activities 2015
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2014
Revenue 20,617 2,529 23,146 22,523 3,298 25,821
Adjusted EBITDA 584 150 734 996 213 1,209
Adjusted EBIT 461 63 524 856 136 992
Adjusted EBITDA margin 2.8% 5.9% 3.2% 4.4% 6.5% 4.7%
Market conditions
Selected average commodity prices
US$ million  2015 2014 Change %
S&P GSCI Agriculture Index 295 350 (16)
CBOT wheat price (US¢/bu) 507 588 (14)
CBOT corn no.2 price (US¢/bu) 377 415 (9)
CBOT soya beans (US¢/bu) 945 1,244 (24)
ICE cotton price (US¢/lb) 63 76 (17)
ICE sugar # 11 price (US¢/lb) 13 16 (19)
Marketing
Highlights
The grain origination and marketing environment was challenging due to lower prices, lack of volatility and limited 
arbitrage opportunities. In addition, earnings were negatively impacted by the imposition of a Russian wheat export tax 
in February 2015. Oilseeds, cotton, sugar and freight marketing all performed well, despite their relatively quiet markets. 
Viterra’s Canadian operations contributed solidly in 2015, but were unable to match the strong 2014 results, mainly due to 
a smaller crop. Viterra Australia’s results were in line with expectations, although in both Canada and Australia the weaker 
local currencies reduced US dollar returns.
Financial information
US$ million  2015 2014 Change %
Revenue 20,617 22,523 (8)
Adjusted EBITDA 584 996 (41)
Adjusted EBIT 461 856 (46)
Selected marketing volumes sold
Million tonnes 2015 2014 Change %
Grain 43.7       38.3 14
Oil/Oilseeds 23.3       22.0 6
Cotton 0.4         0.4 –
Sugar 1.1         0.9 22 67 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Operating highlights
In total, Agricultural products produced/processed 11.5 million tonnes, compared with 10.9 million tonnes in 2014. 
Oilseed crush volumes of 6.1 million tonnes increased by 405,000 tonnes, reflecting the opportunistic acquisitions of the 
Magdeburg plant in Germany and the Becancour (TRT) plant in Canada. Currency devaluation and relaxation of export 
taxes later in the year were supportive of the Argentinian oilseed processing and export business. The Timbues soyabean 
crushing joint venture in Argentina continues to perform well. 
Biodiesel production was 556,000 tonnes, down 27% compared to 2014, reflecting reduced demand due to regulatory 
changes and lower competing diesel prices, although it recovered somewhat in the second half of the year. The biodiesel 
environment combined with a lower EU rapeseed crop and lack of farmer selling reduced EU softseed crushing margins. 
Sugar cane processing increased by 520,000 tonnes (23%) compared to 2014, due to significantly improved agricultural yields 
following the severe drought of 2014, assisted by Brazilian Real devaluation and higher ethanol prices. Conversely, currency 
devaluation and the economic slowdown adversely impacted wheat milling in Brazil as we were unable to pass on the 
increased cost of imported wheat in Brazilian Real terms.
Financial information
US$ million  2015 2014 Change %
Revenue 2,529 3,298 (23)
Adjusted EBITDA 150 213 (30)
Adjusted EBIT 63 136 (54)
Adjusted EBITDA margin 6% 6% n.m.
Sustaining capex 58 29
Expansionary capex 40 58
Total capex 98 87
Processing/production data
  2015 2014 Change %
Farming kt 704 762 (8)
Crushing kt 6,069 5,664 7
Long-term toll agreement kt 284 206 38
Biodiesel kt 556 757 (27)
Rice milling kt 206 230 (10)
Wheat milling kt 976 1,013 (4)
Sugarcane processing kt 2,751 2,231 23
Total agricultural products kt 11,546 10,863 6 68 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Corporate
governance
Directors’  
remuneration report
Chairman’s introduction
89.
70.
“ As a business 
committed to delivering 
shareholder value, 
we recognise that we 
will only be able to 
successfully deliver this 
commitment through 
creating sustainable, 
long-term benefits for 
all of our stakeholders.”
“We have sought to ensure that 
our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy and its implementation 
are attractive to shareholders 
in reflecting good governance, 
complete simplicity and 
reasonable terms.” 69 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
In this section
70 Chairman’s introduction, Directors and Officers
75 Corporate governance report
89 Directors’ remuneration report
95 Directors’ report 70 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Dear Shareholders,
2015 was a challenging year for companies operating in the 
resources sector, during which commodity prices fell sharply 
as macro-economic uncertainties emerged and amplified.
The second half of the year was particularly tough. As the 
scale of these challenges became clear, your Board acted 
decisively, announcing a range of measures in September to 
reduce the Group’s debt significantly by the end of 2016. 
The sustained price reductions that we have seen for many of 
our commodities have been the key drivers for the measures 
taken by Glencore’s management team to strengthen the 
Group’s balance sheet through the preservation of capital the 
reduction of debt and disposal of assets. 
Glencore takes a disciplined approach towards market 
fundamentals. Where there is reduced or lower than expected 
demand for our commodities, we consider the curtailment or 
cessation of our supply of volumes to the market. We are 
committed to seeking to operate as profitably as possible, 
even during periods of demand weakness.
This year your Board has been involved in the making of a 
number of difficult decisions. These decisions have not been 
made lightly, especially as some have resulted in negative 
impacts on our employees, host communities and 
governments through the loss of jobs and revenues as 
production volumes have been reduced and unprofitable 
operations closed. Our local teams have been instrumental  
in limiting the impact of these decisions, through regular 
engagement with impacted stakeholders and ensuring those 
employees leaving the Group were properly compensated.
Glencore’s unique business model, as both a producer and 
marketer of commodities, enables it to extract value at every 
stage of the commodity chain. As a result, your Company is 
better positioned than many to withstand the current 
commodity downturn.
Tragically, ten people lost their lives at our operations during 
2015. Although this is a significant reduction on prior years, the 
Board and I recognise that this is an unacceptable outcome; we 
are continuing our efforts to strengthen our safety culture at all 
our operations regardless of their location or previous safety 
performance. The number of people losing their lives while 
working at Glencore sites continues to reduce year-on-year and 
I am confident that our ambition of zero fatalities is realistic 
and achievable. 
I am very pleased to report that SafeWork has now been 
implemented at all of our assets and is delivering significant 
safety improvements. Both our total recordable and lost time 
injury frequency rates have exceeded our collective target of a 
15% reduction and the number of new occupational disease 
cases has reduced by 41% year-on-year.
As a business committed to delivering shareholder value, we 
recognise that we will only be able to successfully deliver this 
commitment through creating sustainable, long-term benefits 
for all of our stakeholders. 
To this end, pilot studies were carried out at several  
locations against a set of performance metrics which  
we have developed to better understand our socio-economic 
contribution. These indicators allow us to monitor our 
contribution to communities and governments through the 
wages, taxes and royalties we pay, as well as the contributions 
we make to health, education and infrastructure. We will be 
rolling out these metrics across all operations in 2016.
During the year, Glencore became a member of the Plenary  
of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
(Voluntary Principles). The Voluntary Principles bring 
together governments, companies in the extractive sector and 
non-government organisations to engage in dialogue on how 
best to achieve the safety and security of operations through 
encouraging respect for human rights. We have been 
implementing the Voluntary Principles at our operations 
located in regions with a high risk of human rights abuse 
since 2013 and reporting on our progress in our annual 
sustainability report. Our membership will support our 
efforts to further progress our approach towards human 
rights and to share knowledge and best practice. 
We have set out on pages 78 and 80 to 89 the main activities of 
the Board and its Committees during the year. I would 
highlight in particular:
• the considerable work with executive management 
undertaken during the last four months of the year 
concerning the Group’s balance sheet and ongoing strategy;
• the operation of the HSEC Committee which as well as 
continuing its primary objectives of better management  
of catastrophic risks and of safety practices and procedures, 
has undertaken considerable work in a range of other areas 
including the oversight of a major new assurance process 
for sustainability risks and the launch of a social value 
creation score card; and
• the work of the Audit Committee, particularly on 
impairment analysis and consideration of the new longer-
term viability statement we are providing.
Our response to the considerable challenges which the Group 
has faced over the last year reflects the strong leadership  
of the Group’s management team and the continuous efforts 
of all of those at Glencore, who are working together to ensure 
the ongoing success of your Company. We remain focused  
on operating efficient, low cost and safe operations which  
in combination with our excellent marketing businesses give 
us confidence that the medium- and long-term fundamentals 
of our business continue to be strong.
I and my fellow Directors thank you for your continued 
support of Glencore.
Tony Hayward 
Chairman
Chairman’s introduction, Directors and Officers 1
23
4
5 67
8
1 Leonhard Fischer
2 Peter Grauer
3 Patrice Merrin
4 Ivan Glasenberg 
5 Anthony Hayward
6 William Macaulay
7 John Mack
8 Peter Coates
71 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 72 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors
Anthony Hayward
Chairman (Age 58)
Appointed: Anthony Hayward has been 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman from 
May 2013. Prior to being appointed Chairman he  
was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Dr Hayward is non-executive chairman 
of Genel Energy plc (LON:GENL), a partner and 
member of the European advisory Board of AEA 
Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc 
from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a 
rig geologist in the North Sea.
Following a series of technical and commercial 
roles in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned 
to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream 
executive committee. He became group treasurer 
in 2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities 
and member of the main Board of BP in 2003. 
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University 
in Birmingham and completed a Ph.D. at Edinburgh 
University. He is also a fellow of the Royal Society 
of Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from 
the University of Edinburgh, Aston University and 
the University of Birmingham. 
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer (Age 59)
Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in 
April 1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer 
since January 2002.
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent three 
years working in the coal commodity department 
in South Africa as a marketer, before spending 
two years in Australia as head of the Asian coal 
commodity division. Between 1988 and 1989, he was 
based in Hong Kong as head of Glencore’s Hong 
Kong and Beijing offices, as well as head of coal 
marketing in Asia, where his responsibilities included 
overseeing the Asian coal marketing business 
of Glencore and managing the administrative 
functions of the Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
In January 1990, he was made responsible for 
the worldwide coal business of Glencore for both 
marketing and industrial assets, and remained in 
this role until he became Chief Executive Officer 
in January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of 
South Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy 
from the University of Witwatersrand. Mr Glasenberg 
also holds an MBA from the University of Southern 
California. He is currently a non-executive director 
of UC Rusal plc (HKG:0486). Before joining Glencore, 
Mr Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson 
Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
Peter Coates AO
Non-Executive Director (Age 70)
Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive 
Director since January 2014. Prior to this he served 
as an Executive Director from June to December 2013 
and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to 
May 2013. 
Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee.
Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 
as a senior executive in the coal department, 
Mr Coates had occupied many senior positions in a 
diverse range of resource companies, including those 
mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal. 
When Glencore sold its Australian and South African 
coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Xstrata as 
chief executive of its coal business, stepping down 
in December 2007.
He was non-executive director and chairman of 
Xstrata Australia from January 2008 until August 
2009. From April 2008 until April 2011, he was 
non-executive chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. 
Mr Coates is non-executive chairman of Santos 
Limited (ASX:STO) and Sphere Minerals Limited 
(ASX:SPH) and a non-executive director of Event 
Hospitality and Entertainment Limited (ASX:EVT), 
and a past chairman of the Minerals Council of 
Australia, the NSW Minerals Council and the 
Australian Coal Association.
Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree 
in Mining Engineering from the University 
of New South Wales. He was appointed to the Office 
of the Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded 
the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy 
Medal for 2010. 73 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Leonhard Fischer
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 53)
Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit Committee; 
member of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. 
Experience: Mr Fischer was appointed chief executive 
officer of BHF Kleinwort Benson Group S.A. 
(formerly RHJ International S.A.) (EBR:BHFKB) 
in January 2009, having been co-chief executive 
officer from May 2007. He is a director of Kleinwort 
Benson Bank Ltd and chairman of the supervisory 
board of BHF-Bank AG. 
Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur 
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the 
executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 
to March 2007. He joined Credit Suisse Group from 
Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the 
management board and head of the Corporates 
and Markets Division. Prior to this, he had been a 
member of the executive board of Dresdner Bank AG 
in Frankfurt.
Mr Fischer holds an M.A. in Finance from the 
University of Georgia.
William Macaulay
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 70)
Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Member of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. 
Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and 
chief executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, 
a private equity investment firm focused on the 
energy industry, and has been with the company 
since its founding in 1983.
Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a 
co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private 
equity buyout firm. From 1972 to 1982, he served 
as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer 
& Co. with direct responsibility for the firm’s 
buyout business. He also served as president 
of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Mr Macaulay is a director of Weatherford 
International (NYSE:WFT). He also serves on 
numerous private energy company boards. 
Mr Macaulay holds a B.B.A. degree (with honours) 
in Economics from City College of New York, 
and an MBA from the Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania. He has also received 
an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree 
from Baruch College.
Peter Grauer
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director (Age 70)
Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 
and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2014.
Committees: Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee; member of the Audit Committee. 
Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg 
Inc., the global financial media company that was 
founded in 1981. Mr Grauer was chairman and chief 
executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a 
member of Bloomberg’s board of directors since 1996. 
Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director 
of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 
2000 when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse 
First Boston and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking. 
He served as managing director and senior partner 
of CSFB Private Equity until 2002. Mr Grauer is 
a director of Blackstone (NYSE:BX) and Davita 
Healthcare Partners (NYSE:DVA). Mr Grauer is also a 
member of the International Business Council of the 
World Economic Forum, and a trustee of Rockefeller 
University.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of 
North Carolina and the Harvard University 
Graduate School of Business Program for 
Management Development in 1975. 74 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Patrice Merrin
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 67)
Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Following initial roles with Molson and 
Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the 
Canadian diversified miner, for ten years until 2004, 
latterly as COO. She then became CEO of Luscar, 
Canada’s largest thermal coal producer. She is 
currently a non-executive director of Stillwater 
Mining (NYSE:SWC) and Novadaq Technologies Inc. 
(Nasdaq:NVDQ). She has been a director and 
then chairman of CML Healthcare (then TSX) 
from 2008 - 2013, of Enssolutions, a mine tailing 
solutions company, and of NB Power.
Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate 
Change and Emissions Management Corporation 
from 2009 to 2014. She was also a member of the 
Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy 
Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006 and from 
2003 to 2006 was a member of Canada’s Round Table 
on the Environment and the Economy. 
Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queen’s University, 
Ontario and completed the Advanced Management 
Programme at INSEAD. 
John Mack
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 71)
Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the Nomination 
Committee. 
Experience: Mr Mack previously served as chief 
executive officer of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 
until December 2009. He retired as chairman in 2011. 
Mr Mack first joined Morgan Stanley in May 1972, 
becoming a board director in 1987 and was named 
President in 1993. Before rejoining Morgan Stanley 
as chairman and chief executive officer in June 2005, 
Mr Mack served as co-chief executive officer of 
Credit Suisse Group and chief executive officer 
of Credit Suisse First Boston.
Mr Mack is a non-executive director of Enduring 
Hydro and Corinthian Ophthalmic. He is also 
non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc. 
Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of 
China Investment Corporation, is a member of 
the International Business Council of the World 
Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services 
Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International 
Financial Advisory Council. 
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
Officers
Steven Kalmin
Chief Financial Officer (Age 45)
Appointed: Steven Kalmin has been Chief Financial 
Officer since June 2005.
Experience: Mr Kalmin holds a Bachelor of Business 
(with distinction) from the University of Technology, 
Sydney and is a member of Chartered Accountants 
Australia and New Zealand and the Financial 
Services Institute of Australasia.
Before joining Glencore, Mr Kalmin worked for nine 
years at Horwath Chartered Accountants in Sydney, 
leaving the firm as a director.
John Burton
Company Secretary (Age 51)
Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company 
Secretary in September 2011.
Experience: He was formerly company secretary 
and general counsel of Informa plc and before that  
a partner of CMS Cameron McKenna in London 
specialising in corporate law. Mr Burton holds 
a B.A. degree in Law from Durham University. 
He was admitted as a Solicitor in England and 
Wales in 1990.
Directors and Officers 75 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Corporate governance report
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors’ 
Report and the remainder of the Governance section.
Board governance and structure
Overview
This governance report sets out how Glencore has applied 
the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“the Code”) in a manner which enables shareholders 
to evaluate how these principles have been applied. 
As a London premium listed entity we seek to ensure 
full compliance with the Code. The Board believes that 
the Company has throughout the year complied with all 
relevant provisions contained in the Code.
Glencore’s Board comprises seven Non-Executive Directors 
(including the Chairman) and one Executive Director. 
A list of the current Directors, with their brief biographical 
details and other significant commitments, is provided 
in the previous pages. The Chief Financial Officer 
attends all meetings of the Board and Audit Committee. 
The Company Secretary attends all meetings of the Board 
and its committees. 
Division of responsibilities
As a Jersey incorporated company, Glencore has a unitary 
board, meaning all Directors share equal responsibility for 
decisions taken. Glencore has established a clear division 
between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive 
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are 
set out in a schedule of responsibilities which has been 
approved by the Board. While the Non-Executive Chairman 
is responsible for leading the Board’s discussions and 
decision-making, the CEO is responsible for implementing 
and executing strategy and for leading Glencore’s operating 
performance and day-to-day management. The CEO and 
Chief Financial Officer have line of sight across the Group. 
The CEO is further supported by the Group’s senior 
management team principally comprising the heads of the 
businesses and the head of strategy. The Company Secretary 
is responsible for ensuring that there is clear and effective 
information flow to the Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of these responsibilities are set out opposite.
Peter Grauer, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 
is available to meet with shareholders and acts as an 
intermediary between the Chairman and other independent 
Directors when required. This division of responsibilities, 
coupled with the schedule of reserved matters for the 
Board, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers 
of decision.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
Chairman
• Leader of the Board
• Responsible for effective communication flow 
between Directors
• Facilitates effective contribution of all Directors
• Responsible for effective Board governance
• Ensures effective communication with shareholders
Chief Executive Officer
• Leads and motivates management team
• Implements strategy and objectives as directed 
by the Board
• Develops Group policies and proposals for approval 
by the Board and ensures effective implementation
Senior Independent Director
• Is a confidant of the Chairman and 
(when appropriate) also acts as an intermediary 
for other independent Directors
• Will stand in for the Chairman if he is unable 
to attend 
• Chairs the Nominations Committee
• Responsible for appraising the Chairman’s 
performance along with other independent Directors
• Available to shareholders to answer questions 
Other Non-Executive Directors
• Supply challenge and support to management
• Bring independent mindset and differing 
backgrounds and experience to Board debates
• Provide leadership and challenge as chair of, or a  
member of, the board committees which (except 
HSEC) comprise only Non-Executive Directors
• Scrutinise leadership of chairman
Company Secretary
• Secretary to Board Committees
• Informs the Board on all matters reserved to it 
and ensures papers are provided in sufficient 
detail and on time
• Available to Directors in respect of Board procedures 
and provides support and advice
• Ensures the Board is kept informed on 
governance matters
• Coordinates and assists with the Board evaluation 
process along with the Chairman 76 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Corporate governance report
Non-Executive Directors
The Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a broad 
range of skills and experience to the Board, which assists 
in their roles in formulating the Company’s strategy and in 
providing constructive challenge to executive management. 
Glencore regularly assesses its Non-Executive Directors’ 
independence. Except for Peter Coates, due to his 
chairmanship of Sphere Minerals Limited, a quoted 
subsidiary, they all are regarded by the Company as 
Independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning 
of ‘‘independent’’ as defined in the Code and free from any 
business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
This view has been taken having regard to all facts 
including that John Mack was until 2011 chairman of 
Morgan Stanley, which provides advisory and financial 
services to the Group. As Mr Mack ceased to be CEO of 
Morgan Stanley in 2009, Morgan Stanley’s relationship with 
the Company is led from its UK office and Mr Mack was not 
involved in the delivery of these services, we believe that 
applying in a common sense construction to the provisions 
of the Code, it is reasonable to conclude that Mr Mack is 
independent in accordance with its terms.
Management of conflicts of interest
All Directors endeavour to avoid any situation of conflict of 
interest with the Company. Potential conflicts can arise and 
therefore processes and procedures are in place requiring 
Directors to identify and declare any actual or potential 
conflict of interest. Any such notifications are required to be 
made by the Directors prior to, or at, a Board meeting and 
all Directors have a duty to update the whole Board of any 
changes in circumstances. Glencore’s Articles of Association 
and Jersey law allow for the Board to authorise potential 
conflicts and the potentially conflicted Director must abstain 
from any vote accordingly. During 2015, no abstention 
procedures for conflicts had to be activated.
 
Board Committees 
The following four Committees are in place to assist the 
Board in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, 
Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and 
Communities (“HSEC”), as set out in the diagram on the 
next page. Committee meetings are held prior to Board 
meetings and at each scheduled Board meeting the 
chairman of each Committee leads a discussion concerning 
the Committee’s activities since the previous Board meeting. 
The Committees carry out a considerable amount of work. 
In particular:
• the Audit Committee provides challenge and enquiry on 
the significant areas of financial and accounting oversight 
and risk management; and
• the HSEC Committee, whose membership includes 
both Chairman and CEO, continues to have the 
heaviest workload of all the committees due to its 
strong leadership of sustainability issues and the 
range of matters which it considers. Its work on 
driving improvements in the prevention of catastrophic 
events and safety performance continues to be of 
particular focus. 
A report for 2015 from each Committee chairman is set out 
later in this Corporate governance report.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference 
approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee 
meetings are circulated to the Board. Each Committee 
reviewed its terms of reference during the year and as 
a result revisions were made to the HSEC Committee’s 
terms of reference to ensure they continue to conform 
to best practice. 
All Committees’ terms of reference are available at: 
www.glencore.com/who-we-are/board-of-directors/
board-committees/ 77 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Board meetings 
The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out 
those matters which are reserved for its decision-making 
alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material 
acquisitions and disposals. Meetings are usually held 
at the Company’s headquarters in Baar, Switzerland. 
Details of the Board and Committee meetings held during 
the year are detailed below.
The Board and its Committees have standing agenda 
items to cover their proposed business at their scheduled 
meetings. The Chairman seeks to ensure that the very 
significant work of the Committees feeds into, and benefits 
as to feedback from, the full Board. The Board and 
Committee meetings also benefit from presentations 
by senior executives and some technical and investor 
relations updates. Presentations from the business 
and senior management allow Directors to enhance their 
understanding of the business and the implementation 
of strategy, in turn contributing to a more effective Board. 
A summary of the Board’s main activities during 2015 
is set out on the next page. 
Several times a year the Chairman holds meetings with 
the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Director 
present, and at least once a year the Non-Executive Directors 
meet without the Chairman present.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
HEAL TH, SAFETY , ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE
SHAREHOLDERS
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
AUDIT COMMITTEE
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ELECT THE DIRECTORS
ONGOING ENGAGEMENT 78 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Work at Board Meetings
The main considerations and actions carried out at the meetings of the Board during 2015 are summarised below. The scheduled short agenda and short notice 
meetings were held by telephone. The work of its committees are described later in this report.
At each main scheduled meeting the following standing matters are considered:
• consideration of any new conflicts of interest;
• review of minutes of previous meetings, including actions from previous meetings; and
• reports/updates from the CEO, CFO, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and Head of Communications. These reports include consideration  
of strategic matters including possible asset expansions/contractions, acquisitions/disposals, material debt refinancings and analysis of risks. 
In addition:
• regular updates are provided by the Company Secretary on governance, Board processes and other Company secretarial matters; and 
• usually the Non-Executive Directors have a separate meeting, with sometimes a second session without the Chairman present. 
Board activities completed during 2015
First scheduled short agenda meeting
• Results/business update
• Consideration and approval of proposal to 
distribute the Group’s 23.9% stake in Lonmin plc
• Review and approval of 2014 Production Report
First scheduled meeting
• Annual Results, including review and approval, 
where appropriate, of:
 – report from the Audit Committee Chairman;
 – detailed consideration of principal risks/
uncertainties and mitigation to be disclosed;
 – report on going concern;
 – final distribution recommendation;
 – full-year results announcement for the 
prior year;
 – Annual Report draft; and
 – management representation letter
• Consideration of AGM resolutions
• Consideration of restructuring of the Group’s 
interests in Russneft
• Report from the Nomination Committee 
chairman and discussion on whether all 
current Directors should stand at AGM
• Report from the Remuneration 
Committee chairman
• Report from the HSEC Committee chairman, 
in particular discussion on safety improvements 
and revamped sustainability report
• Review of procedure for Board and 
committees evaluation
• Review and agreement on outcomes of 2014 
Board evaluation
• Reviewed updated Board governance documents 
and key policies
Second scheduled short agenda meeting 
• Business update
• Considered and approved the 
Q1 Production Report 
Second scheduled meeting
• Briefing on the business to be conducted at 
the AGM (and after, of the other issues raised)
• Briefing from Head of Nickel including review 
of Koniambo capital expenditure
• External Board evaluation discussion, including 
agreement of scope and process
• Review of Lonmin shares distribution proposal
• Engagement with NGOs
• Report from the HSEC Committee chairman
• Report from the Audit Committee chairman
Third scheduled meeting
• Half-year results, including review and 
approval, where appropriate, of:
 – report from the Audit Committee Chairman;
 – principal risks and mitigation to be disclosed;
 – report on going concern;
 – interim distribution;
 – half year results announcement; and
 – management representation letter
• Strategic review of the coal market and the 
performance of the Group’s coal assets including 
presentation from the Head of Coal 
• Strategic review of the copper markets including 
presentation from the Head of Copper
• Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman
• Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
• Report from the Nomination 
Committee Chairman
• Report from the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
• Considered outcomes from multiple 
shareholder meetings on governance and 
sustainability issues
First short notice meeting 
• Business update
• Discussion on interim results investor feedback, 
deteriorating market conditions and how the 
Company should respond
• Review of available options
Second short notice meeting 
• Continued the deliberations of the previous 
meeting. Concluded with decision to seek 
an equity capital raising in the near future 
and for the Company to enter into a standby 
underwriting agreement and to canvass investor 
opinion on timing and form of equity issue
• Make major operational changes to its African 
copper assets
Third short notice meeting
• Consideration of investor feedback on timing 
and form of equity issue
• Approved share placing to raise $2.5 billion
Fourth short notice meeting
• Business update
• Discussion on current challenging market 
conditions and what further decisions might 
be appropriate for the Company to take in 
relation to them
Fifth short notice meeting 
• Review of progress on debt reduction 
programme and investor relations
• Assessment of current steps taken and 
consideration of further initiatives as to greater 
balance sheet stability
Fourth scheduled meeting
• Considerable review of equity and credit 
markets and careful review of investor priorities
• Consideration of progress of debt reduction plan
• Market updates focusing in particular on 
Zinc, Copper, Coal and Nickel, including 
presentations from the respective 
commodity heads
• Consideration of budget planning on a 
conservative basis
• Detailed discussion on the Board evaluation 
process and its outcomes
• Review of Group’s IT function including 
cyber security
• Review of legal and compliance function 
including actual or potential litigation
• Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
• Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman
Third scheduled short agenda meeting
• Update on debt reduction programme
• Consideration and approval of $900 million 
Antamina streaming transaction
• Considered and approved the 
Q3 Production Report
• Considered and approved a programme to 
reduce zinc production
Fifth scheduled meeting
• Review of debt reduction programme
• Review of principal risks and uncertainties and 
preparation for longer-term viability statement
• Considered and approved the 2016 budget 
and 2017 - 2019 business plan including review 
of all main parts of the business
• Consideration of Board refreshment 
• Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman
• Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
• Report from the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
Corporate governance report 79 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Attendance during the year for all scheduled full agenda Board and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below: 
Board of 5 Audit of 4 Remuneration of 3 Nomination of 2 HSEC of 5
Ivan Glasenberg 5 5
Anthony Hayward 5 5
William Macaulay 5 4 3
Leonhard Fischer 5432
Peter Coates 5 5
John Mack 5 3 2
Peter Grauer 5 4 2
Patrice Merrin 5 5
In addition, there were another eight limited agenda 
meetings of the Board. Details of all these Board meetings 
are set out on the previous page.
Appointment and re-election of Directors
All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election 
at the 2016 AGM. 
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of 
appointment and the details of their terms are set out in 
the Directors’ remuneration report. No other contract 
with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the 
Company in which any Director was materially interested 
existed during or at the end of the financial year except that 
Peter Coates received fees of AUD75,000 during 2015 as 
Chairman of the Company’s subsidiary undertaking  
Sphere Minerals Limited which is quoted on the Australian 
Stock Exchange.
Information, management meetings, site visits and 
professional development 
It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive 
Directors (1) attain a good knowledge of the Company 
and its business and (2) allocate sufficient time to Glencore 
to discharge their responsibilities effectively. The Board 
calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed 
on a wide range of topics. Directors are also given the 
opportunity to visit Group operations and discuss aspects 
of the business with employees, and regularly meet the 
heads of the Group’s main departments and other senior 
executives. As well as internal briefings, Directors attend 
appropriate external seminars and briefings.
Normally meetings with heads of commodities and other 
senior Group functions take place alongside scheduled 
Board meetings. In addition, in order to better familiarise 
themselves with the industrial activities, regular site visits 
take place. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for
ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and 
have access to independent and professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, where they judge this to be necessary 
to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Director induction process
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction 
on joining the Board, including meetings with senior 
management. The induction programme aims to build:
• an in-depth understanding of Glencore, its business and 
the markets in which it operates;
• a link with Glencore employees, particularly the senior 
management; and
• a clear appreciation of the Company’s risks.
Board effectiveness 
The Board of Glencore engaged independent advisers 
Spencer Stuart to facilitate an evaluation of the Board’s 
effectiveness during 2015. Previous Board evaluations have 
been conducted internally. The scope of the evaluation 
covered the Board, its four Committees and the Directors 
individually.
Process
The process involved carrying out formal interviews 
with each Director, with members of the management team 
including the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Internal 
Audit, with the lead partner of independent auditors 
Deloitte LLP and with representatives from two institutional 
investors. Directors were asked for their views on a 
structured set of questions addressing Board processes, 
Board information and Board dynamics. They were also 
asked for their feedback on the contributions of fellow 
Directors and the Chairman.
The independent adviser attended a full Board meeting 
and all four Board Committee meetings in order to assess 
how the Board and Board Committees operate in practice.  80 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
The Board evaluation report was presented to the Board at 
the October Board meeting. The Chairman had individual 
follow-up conversations with each Director to discuss the 
feedback on their performance. The Senior Independent 
Director had a follow-up conversation with the Chairman 
to discuss the feedback on his performance.
Outcome
The Directors are satisfied that the Board and each of its 
Committees is operating effectively. Nonetheless, the Board 
has identified a number of actions that will help maintain 
and improve its effectiveness including:
• the Board has decided to add an additional full agenda 
Board meeting to the annual calendar from 2016 and 
increase the length of some Board meetings;
• the Board has reviewed the current agenda formulation 
for Board meetings and identified items for additional 
regular inclusion over the coming year; and
• long-term Board succession planning will be an area 
of greater focus for the Nominations Committee and 
the Board.
It is the Board’s intention to continue to review its 
performance annually including that of its Committees 
and individual Directors.
Remuneration
Remuneration is covered in the Directors’ remuneration 
report which follows this section. It includes a description 
of the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review 
cycle, which includes a detailed annual planning/budgeting 
process where business units prepare budgets for overall 
consolidation and approval by the Board. The Group uses 
a large number of performance indicators to measure both 
operational and financial activity in the business. Depending on 
the measure, these are reported and reviewed on a daily, 
weekly or monthly basis. In addition, management in the 
business receive weekly and monthly reports of indicators 
which are the basis of regular operational meetings, where 
corrective action is taken if necessary. At a Group level, 
a well-developed management accounts pack, including 
income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement as 
well as key ratios is prepared and reviewed monthly by 
management. As part of the monthly reporting process, 
a reforecast of the current year projections is performed. 
To ensure consistency of reporting, the Group has a global 
consolidation system as well as a common accounting 
policies and procedures manual. Management monitors the 
publication of new reporting standards and works closely 
with our external auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
Risk management and internal control 
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Code by 
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the risks that are considered significant by 
the Group in accordance with the revised Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial 
Reporting Council. This process has been in place for the 
period under review and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and financial statements. The process is 
designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate risk, 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The Directors confirm 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and have reviewed the 
effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems. This review excludes associates of the Group as 
Glencore does not have the ability to dictate or modify the 
internal controls of these entities. This report describes how 
the effectiveness of the Group’s structure of internal controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management systems is reviewed.
Risk – Board leadership
The Board provides leadership and oversight on 
risk management. Specifically it:
(1)  provides a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group 
The Board determines the nature and extent of the 
principal risks the Group should take in achieving 
its strategic objectives. The Board has carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
The Directors’ description of those risks and their 
explanation as to how they are being managed or 
mitigated are set out on pages 28 to 35.
(2)  determines a longer-term viability statement
Taking account of the Group’s position and principal 
risks, the Directors assess the prospects of the 
Group and conclude whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the period of their assessment. Their conclusions are 
set out on page 98.
(3)  monitors the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems
The Board oversees sound risk management and internal 
control systems. It carries out a regular review of their 
effectiveness including reviewing the Group’s internal 
financial controls and the Group’s internal control and 
risk management. This monitoring and review covers 
all material controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls. Their work and conclusions 
are described on pages 28 and 80 to 85.
Corporate governance report 81 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Approach to risk management
Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group 
achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial 
strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other 
stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as 
a going concern while generating sustainable long-term 
profitability. Spanning the organisational structure, 
Glencore’s disciplined approach to risk management and 
control originates with strategic responsibility in the hands 
of the Board, which also retains operational authority 
on matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
The Board retains final authority for assessing and 
approving the Group’s overall risk appetite and sets overall 
limits which are subject to review annually. It is assisted by 
the work of the Audit Committee for oversight and by senior 
management for day-to-day operational issues, an effective 
risk management governance apparatus has been 
established for the Group.
Risk Management Framework
Management engagement
The Company’s senior management reviews the major 
risks facing the Group and decides if the level of risk is 
acceptable or whether further steps need to be taken to 
mitigate these risks. Together, central and business 
management set the level of risk appetite by ensuring that 
there is an appropriate balance between the level of risk 
assumed and the expected return.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing 
the risk management system and internal controls.
Mandated by the Board, the Audit and HSEC Committees 
are responsible for ensuring that the significant risks 
identified are properly managed. 
Group functions
Group functions (Risk Management, Compliance, Legal 
and Sustainable Development), through their respective 
expertise, support the Business Risk Owners and senior 
management in regard to mitigating risk across the Group.
Internal Audit
Internal Audit, as an independent assurance provider, 
reviews the risk management process and internal controls 
established by the management team. 
A risk-based audit approach is applied in order to focus 
on high risk areas during the audit process. It involves 
discussions with management on the risks identified in the 
business risk registers, emerging risks, operational changes, 
new investments and capital projects.
The key results from this process are reported to the 
Audit Committee for their review.
External Business Sustainability
Prices
Supply & 
Demand
Operating Catastrophes Credit HSEC
Risk Management Framework
Risk culture
Risk strategy and appetite
Risk governance
Board of Directors
     Audit Committee
            HSEC Committee
Management team (executive)
     Group functions
          Internal Audit
                HSEC Assurance
Business segments 
 and functions
Risk organisation
External disclosure
Risk monitoring and reporting
Risk identification
Risk assessment
Risk management
Principal risks and 
uncertainties 
(see pages 28-35)
OVERSIGHT
Tone from the top
INFRASTRUCTURE
People Process Technology
RISK PROCESS
Marketing  
risk process
Industrial  
risk process
HSEC  
risk process
Identify Measure Mitigate Control Report 82 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Industrial risk management 
We believe that every employee should be accountable for 
the risks related to their role. As a result, we encourage our 
employees to escalate risks (not limited to hazards) to their 
immediate supervisors. This enables risks to be tackled 
and mitigated at an early stage by the team with the relevant 
level of expertise.
The management teams at each industrial operation are 
responsible for implementing a risk management process 
that identifies, assesses and manages risk.
The risks that may impact on business objectives and plans 
are maintained in a business risk register. They include 
strategic, compliance, operational and reporting risks.
Any significant risks are reported to Management and 
the Audit Committee. A Corporate Risk Management 
Framework is implemented on a Group-wide basis to 
ensure consistency in the assessment and reporting of risks.
HSEC risk management 
These risk management processes are operated at asset 
level subject to coordination and guidance from the central 
sustainability team and subject to the leadership and 
oversight of the HSEC Committee.
2015 saw the first full year of the operation of the new 
programme which has been established for the assessment 
of compliance with leading practices matters of health 
and safety, environment and communities. 
Further information is provided in the report from the 
HSEC Committee below and will be published in the 
Group’s Sustainability Report for 2015.
Marketing risk management 
Glencore’s marketing activities are exposed to commodity 
price, basis, volatility, foreign exchange, interest rate, 
credit and performance, liquidity and regulatory risks. 
Glencore devotes significant resources to developing and 
implementing policies and procedures to identify, monitor 
and manage these risks. 
Glencore has a disciplined and conservative approach to 
Marketing Risk (“MR”) management supported by its flat 
organisational structure. Glencore continues to adopt and 
implement policies which are intended to mitigate and 
manage commodity price, credit and other related risks. 
Glencore’s MR is managed at individual, business and 
central level. Initial responsibility for risk management 
is provided by the businesses in accordance with and 
complementing their commercial decision-making. 
A support, challenge and verification role is provided by 
the central MR function headed by the Chief Risk Officer 
(“CRO”) via its additional daily risk reporting and analysis 
which is split by market and credit risk.
The CEO, as the central figure of commercial leadership 
and control, drives functional risk management policy, 
supported by the CFO and CRO, with data and reporting 
from the central risk team and the other key functional 
units. In turn the CEO reports to, and seeks authority 
limits from the Board, with the main oversight role being 
performed by the Audit Committee which receives regular 
reports from the CRO at its meetings. It also approves 
(subject to Board confirmation) the Group-wide risk profile, 
and any exceptions to agreed positional thresholds.
At the heart of the risk management regime is the process 
of challenge that takes place between the CEO, the CRO and 
the business heads which sets risk appetite in accordance 
with Group requirements and market conditions for each 
commodity. The objective is to ensure that an appropriate 
balance is maintained between the levels of risk assumed 
and expected return, which relies on the commodity-
specific expert knowledge provided by business heads. 
This is then subject to challenge from the CEO based on 
his overall Group knowledge and experience. This process 
is designed to manage risk effectively while facilitating 
the fast, commercial decision-making which is required 
in a dynamic commodity marketing company.
Another important consideration of the MR team is the 
challenge of dealing with the impact of large transactional 
flows across many locations. The function seeks to ensure 
effective supervision by its timely and comprehensive 
transaction recording, ongoing monitoring of the 
transactions and resultant exposures, providing 
all-encompassing positional reporting, and continually 
assessing universal counterparty credit exposure. 
Key focus points
Market Risk limits and reporting
The MR team provides a wide array of daily/weekly 
reporting. A daily risk report showing Group Value at 
Risk (“VaR”) as shown on the next page and various other 
stress tests and analyses are distributed to the CEO, CFO 
and CRO. Business risk summaries showing positional 
exposure and other relevant metrics, together with 
potential margin call requirements, are also circulated daily. 
The MR function works to enhance its stress and scenario 
testing as well as enhancing measures to capture risk 
exposure within the specific areas of the business, 
e.g. within metals, concentrate treatment and refining 
charges are analysed.
A recent example of upgrading of reporting is the 
Agricultural business for which the MR team has 
considerably improved the granularity of reporting since 
the integration of Viterra, through the adoption of new 
systems solutions. The existing VaR sub-limits system 
has been extended to reflect the greater geographic spread 
of commercial responsibility within the organisation and 
now covers nine constituent units.
Corporate governance report 83 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Credit Risk Management 
The Group continues to make extensive use of credit 
enhancement tools, seeking letters of credit, insurance cover, 
discounting and other means of reducing credit risk from 
counterparts. In addition, mark-to-market exposures in 
relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially 
collateralised (primarily with cash) pursuant to margining 
agreements in place with such hedge counterparts. 
The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy governs higher levels 
of credit risk exposure, with an established threshold for 
referral of credit decisions by business heads to CFO/CEO 
(relating to unsecured amounts in excess of $75 million 
with BBB or lower rated counterparts). At lower levels of 
materiality, decisions may be taken by the business heads 
where key strategic transactions or established relationships 
suggest that an open account exposure may be warranted. 
Systems and reporting
Whilst no single trading system that the Group can identify 
appears able to manage the broad range of requirements 
that the different business profiles of the Group would 
place on it, interfacing with multiple source systems and 
transferring data from one to another create enhanced risk 
to data integrity, granularity, consistency and timeliness. 
Dealing with obligations arising from regulatory changes
In 2015 Glencore adapted, as applicable, to increased 
regulation including the Dodd-Frank Act and the European 
Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) which affected 
in particular risk mitigation (trade confirmation timeframes, 
portfolio reconciliation, portfolio compression and dispute 
resolution) and trade reporting. 
Upcoming new regulatory compliance proposals or 
obligations include:
• further obligations under EMIR including mandatory 
clearing and margining obligations;
• FMIA (Swiss regulatory framework for OTC derivatives) 
and MIFID II, (position management and reporting 
commodity swap transactions);
• the Market Abuse Regulation (“MAR”); and
• Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and Transparency 
(“REMIT”).
Value at Risk
The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure 
by using a VaR computation assessing ‘open’ commodity 
positions which are subject to price risks. VaR is one 
of the risk measurement techniques the Group uses 
to monitor and limit its primary market exposure 
related to its physical marketing exposures and related 
derivative positions. VaR estimates the potential loss in 
value of open positions that could occur as a result of 
adverse market movements over a defined time horizon, 
given a specific level of confidence. The methodology 
is a statistically defined, probability based approach 
that takes into account market volatilities, as well as 
risk diversification benefits by recognising offsetting 
positions and correlations between commodities and 
markets. In this way, risks can be compared across 
all markets and commodities and risk exposures can 
be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Last year, the Board approved the Audit Committee’s 
recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of 
$100 million for 2015, consistent with the previous year. 
This limit is subject to review and approval on an annual 
basis. The purpose of this Group limit is to assist senior 
management in controlling the Group’s overall risk 
profile, within this tolerance threshold. During 2015 
Glencore’s average daily VaR was approximately 
$35 million, with an observed high of $52 million and 
a low of $17 million.
As the chart opposite shows, in 2015 there were 
no breaches of the $100 million Group VaR limit.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Metals & minerals Energy products Agriculture
Jan 2015 Nov 2015 Jul 2015 Sep 2015 Mar 2015 May 2015
VaR development ($m)
The Group remains aware of the extent of coverage 
of risk exposures and their limitations. In addition, 
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or 
losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by the 
Group, nor are these VaR results considered indicative 
of future market movements or representative of any 
actual impact on its future results. VaR remains viewed 
in the context of its limitations; notably, the use of 
historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, 
market illiquidity risks and risks associated with longer 
time horizons as well as tail risks. Recognising these 
limitations the Group complements and refines this risk 
analysis through the use of stress and scenario analysis. 
The Group regularly back-tests its VaR to establish 
adequacy of accuracy and to facilitate analysis of 
significant differences, if any.
The Board has again approved the Audit Committee’s 
recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of 
$100 million for 2016. 84 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
The impacts of these and other new regulations to 
commodity market participants is potentially considerable. 
For Glencore, this will largely be an additional compliance 
burden with the associated costs, rather than an expectation 
of practical commercial hindrances. Glencore’s compliance, 
finance, IT and risk teams continue to work together in 
monitoring and advising management on 
these developments.
Internal Audit 
Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting 
directly to the Audit Committee. The role of Internal 
Audit is to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk 
management, control, and business governance processes. 
Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within 
the business and suggests control solutions to mitigate 
exposures identified. The Audit Committee considers and 
approves the risk-based audit plan, areas of audit focus and 
resources and is regularly updated on audits performed and 
relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing 
the actions arising. In particular, the Committee considered 
Internal Audit’s high priority issues (with a particular focus 
on procurement and systems), its KPIs and the effectiveness 
and timeliness of management’s responses to its findings.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Internal Audit function. As part of this work, it considered 
the function’s management framework and its improvement 
programme.
Relationships with shareholders
The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the 
Group in communications with shareholders and believes 
that being transparent in describing how we see the market 
and the prospects for the business as extremely important. 
We communicate with shareholders in a number of different 
ways. The formal reporting of our full- and half-year results 
and quarterly production reports is achieved through a 
combination of releases, presentations, group calls and one 
to one meetings. The full- and half-year reporting is 
followed by investor meetings in a variety of locations 
where we have institutional shareholders. We also regularly 
meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update or 
to introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange 
visits to parts of the business to give analysts and major 
shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our 
operations. These visits and meetings are principally 
undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor 
Relations and an array of business heads. In addition, many 
major shareholders have meetings with the Chairman and 
appropriate senior personnel of the Group including other 
Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Head 
of Sustainability. In addition, Peter Grauer, the Senior 
Independent Director, is available to meet shareholders if 
they wish to raise issues separately from these 
arrangements. In particular in 2015 the following were 
undertaken: 
•   a presentation and investor roadshow was held in 
May to provide a detailed account of the Company’s 
sustainability policies and plans. Led by the chairman 
of the HSEC committee, presentations were also given 
by the Chairman and the CEO; and
•   the Chairman and Company Secretary met with 
a large number of institutional shareholders in the 
summer, and separately in the autumn following the 
announcement of the debt reduction programme.
The Board receives regular updates from the Company’s 
Head of Strategy on the views of shareholders through a 
briefing, which is a standing agenda item for all Board 
meetings, which is supplemented by input from the 
Chairman, CEO, CFO and, if applicable, the Senior 
Independent Director. 
AGM
The Company’s next AGM is due to be held in Zug on 
19 May 2016. Full details of the meeting will be set out in 
the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders 
in April. Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged 
to vote by proxy as detailed in the Notice of Meeting. 
All documents relating to the AGM will be available 
on the Company’s website at: www.glencore.com
Corporate governance report 85 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Audit Committee report
Chairman
Leonhard Fischer 
Other members
Peter Grauer  
William Macaulay
All members served throughout the year. All are considered 
to be Independent Non-Executive Directors and deemed to 
be financially literate by virtue of their business experience. 
Additionally, all Committee members are considered by the 
Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and 
have competence in accounting. The Committee held four 
scheduled meetings during the year which all the 
Committee members attended. John Burton is Secretary 
to the Committee. 
Governance processes
The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group 
Financial Controller, CRO and Head of Internal Audit and 
the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each 
meeting. Other members of management and external 
auditors may attend as and when required. Other Directors, 
and sometimes all other Directors, also attend its meetings. 
The Committee also holds private sessions with the external 
auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without members of 
management being present. The Committee has adopted 
guidelines allowing non-audit services to be contracted 
with the external auditors on the basis as set out below.
Role, responsibilities and main activities
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to 
financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk 
management and controls. 
During the year, the Committee’s principal work included 
the following:
• reviewing Glencore’s internal financial and 
compliance controls and internal controls and risk 
management systems;
• reviewing and agreeing the preparation and scope of the 
year-end reporting process;
• determining the global audit plan, scope and fees of the 
audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors;
• evaluating the Group’s procedures for ensuring that the 
Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable;
• reviewing the full-year (audited), and half-year 
(unaudited), financial statements with management 
and the external auditors;
• reviewing the Group’s financial and accounting policies 
and practices including discussing material issues with 
management and the external auditors, especially matters 
that influence or could affect the presentation of accounts 
and key figures;
• considering applicable regulatory changes to 
reporting obligations;
• evaluating the effectiveness of the external auditors; 
• recommending to the Board a resolution to be put to 
the shareholders for their approval on the appointment 
of the external auditors and to authorise the Board to 
fix the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
external auditors;
• monitoring the independence of the external auditor and 
reviewing the operation of the Company’s policy for the 
provision of non-audit services by it;
• considering and approving two assignments above the 
approval threshold with the external auditors in respect of 
non-audit services;
• considering the output from the Group-wide processes 
used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, including 
credit and performance risks across the industrial and 
marketing activities;
• considering the scope and methodologies to determine 
the Company’s Going concern and Longer-term 
viability statements;
• reviewing the Internal Audit Department’s annual audit 
plan and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal 
Audit function;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencore’s 
internal controls for which there were no significant 
failings or weaknesses noted; and
• reviewing reports on the operation of the Group’s 
legal compliance programme, including material 
notifications under the Group’s Raising Concerns 
whistleblowing programme.
Risk analysis
The Committee receives reports and presentations at 
its meetings on our management of marketing and other 
risks (excluding sustainability risks which are reviewed by 
the HSEC Committee). 86 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Corporate governance report
Significant issues related to the financial statements
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting 
policies have been adopted and whether management 
have made appropriate estimates and judgements. 
They also review external auditors’ reports outlining 
audit work performed and conclusions reached in respect 
of key judgements, as well as identifying any issues in 
respect of these. 
During the year, the most significant issues for the 
Committee concerned impairment analysis.
The Committee considered whether the carrying value of 
goodwill, industrial assets, physical trade positions and 
material loans and advances may be impaired as a result of 
sustained falls in commodity prices and some asset specific 
factors. We reviewed management’s reports, outlining the 
basis for the key assumptions used in calculating the 
recoverable value for the Group’s assets. Future performance 
assumptions used are derived from the Board approved 
business plan. As part of the process for approval of this 
plan, the Committee considered the feasibility of strategic 
plans underpinning future performance expectations, and 
whether they remain achievable. Considerable focus was 
applied to management’s commodity price and exchange 
rate assumptions. The Committee discussed with the 
external auditors their work in respect of impairment 
review, which was the most significant area of audit focus 
for them.
These impairment analyses focused in particular on:
• Oil exploration assets in Chad;
• Copper assets in Africa, particularly following the 
temporary production curtailments;
• the Group’s main coal assets;
• Zinc assets in Australia;
• Nickel assets, particularly Koniambo;
• Aluminium assets, including Century; and
• goodwill relating to the Pacorini warehousing business.
The other main areas of analysis have been: 
• capital preservation and debt reduction programme, in 
particular the Antamina metal streaming transaction;
• whether the Group’s accounting for the fair value of 
base metal differentials is appropriate;
• judgement required to fair value the Group’s physical 
forward contracts;
• significant loan exposures;
• Group restructurings; 
• robust assessment of principal risks and impact on longer-
term viability; and
• taxation risks, especially concerning transfer pricing 
and recognition of deferred income tax assets.
Internal Audit
The Committee monitored the internal audit function as 
described under Internal Audit on page 84. 
External Audit
The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of the 
external auditor and as part of this assessment, has 
considered:
• the steps taken by the auditors to ensure their objectivity 
and independence;
• the deep knowledge of the Company which enhances 
Deloitte’s ability to perform as external auditor;
• competence when handling key accounting and audit 
judgements and ability to communicate these to the 
Committee and management;
• the extent of the auditor’s resources and technical 
capability to deliver a robust and timely audit including 
consideration of the qualifications and expertise of 
the team; 
• auditor’s performance and progress against the agreed 
audit plan, including communication of changes to the 
plan and identified risks; and
• the proven stability that is gained from the continued 
engagement of Deloitte as external auditor.
The Committee assesses the quality and effectiveness of 
the external audit process on an annual basis in conjunction 
with the senior management team. Key areas of focus 
include consideration of the quality and robustness of the 
audit, identification of and response to areas of risk and the 
experience and expertise of the audit team, including the 
lead audit partner. 
Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor
The Group’s policy on non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor is designed to ensure the external auditor 
independence and objectivity is safeguarded. A specified 
wide range of services may not be provided as they have 
the potential to impair the external auditor’s independence 
(Excluded Services). The Audit Committee’s approval 
is required for (1) any Excluded Service (2) any other 
engagement where either (i) the fee is contingent, (ii) the fee 
may exceed $500,000, or (iii) where the fees for all non-audit 
work may exceed $15 million. Subject to these restrictions 
and other safeguards in the policy, the external auditors 
may be permitted to provide certain non-audit services 
when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate 
supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading firm for 
those specific services. For 2015, fees paid to the external 
auditors were $31 million, the total non-audit fees of which  87 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
were $6 million; further details are contained in note 28 
to the financial statements.
Reappointment of the external auditor
Deloitte has been the auditor of the listed entity since its 
IPO in 2011. The most recent lead audit engagement partner 
rotation occurred prior to the financial year ended 
31 December 2013 when Mr Matthew Sheerin replaced 
Mr David Quinlin as the lead audit engagement partner. 
The Board and the Audit Committee acknowledge the 
importance of, and greater investor scrutiny in respect of, 
a tendering policy for the appointment of external auditors. 
The Board and the Audit Committee also note the current 
requirements of the Code, and legislative changes 
concerning mandatory audit rotation.
Taking into account the recent major changes to the Group 
over the past few years, the recent partner rotation and the 
transitional arrangements, the Audit Committee concluded 
that it was appropriate not to tender at the current time.
The Committee has determined that it is satisfied that the 
work of Deloitte LLP is effective, the scope is appropriate 
and significant judgements have been challenged robustly 
by the lead partner and team. Additionally, there are no 
contractual restrictions on the Company’s choice of external 
auditor. The Committee has therefore recommended 
to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at 
the 2016 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP 
as external auditor. 
Leonhard Fischer
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
7 March 2016
Nomination Committee
Chairman
Peter Grauer 
Other members
John Mack 
Leonhard Fischer
All members served on the Committee throughout the year. 
The Committee only comprises Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee met twice during the year and 
all members attended these meetings.
Roles and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are 
to assist the Board with succession planning and with the 
selection process for the appointment of new Directors, 
both Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman. 
This involves:
• evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board and identifying the capabilities 
required for a particular appointment;
• overseeing the search process; and
• evaluating the need for Board refreshment and succession 
planning generally.
Main activities
The Committee focused on two main tasks during this 
year. Firstly, prior to the notice of 2015 AGM being compiled, 
the Committee considered the performance of each Director. 
It concluded that each Director is effective in their role and 
continues to demonstrate the commitment required to 
remain on the Board. Accordingly, it recommended to the 
Board that re-election resolutions be put for each Director 
at the 2015 AGM. 
Secondly, the Committee considered the composition of 
the Board and refreshment. It was agreed that a further 
appointment would be beneficial and a search process has 
been commenced. 
It is part of the Committee’s policy when making new Board 
appointments to consider the importance of diversity on the 
Board, including gender. This is considered in conjunction 
with experience specific to the business of the Company, 
the necessary qualifications required, whilst ensuring no 
disqualifying conflict of interest is present. 
External consultancy Spencer Stuart has been retained 
for the above search mandate.
Peter Grauer
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
7 March 2016 88 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Corporate governance report
Health, Safety, Environment & Communities 
(HSEC) Committee 
Chairman
Peter Coates
Other members
Ivan Glasenberg  
Anthony Hayward  
Patrice Merrin
The Committee met five times during the year. Each 
Committee member served throughout the year and 
attended all of the meetings. Every meeting had a 
substantial agenda, reflecting the Committee’s objective 
of providing leadership for the Group in continuing to 
achieve improved HSEC performance. 
Role and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• ensure that appropriate Group policies are developed 
in line with our Values and Code of Conduct for the 
identification and management of current and emerging 
health, safety, environmental and community risks;
• ensure that the policies are effectively communicated 
throughout the Company and that appropriate processes 
and procedures are developed at operational level to 
comply with these policies;
• evaluate the effectiveness of policy implementation and 
HSEC risk management through:
 – assessment of operational performance;
 – review of recent internal and external reports; and
 – independent audits and reviews of performance in 
regard to HSEC matters, and action plans developed 
by management in response to issues raised;
• evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any 
reporting to external stakeholders concerning HSEC 
matters; and
• report to the full Board.
Main activities
During the year, the Committee:
• reviewed and approved the Group’s HSEC strategy;
• provided ongoing monitoring of catastrophic 
hazard management;
• oversaw the Crisis and Emergency Management Policy;
• commenced a re-evaluation of safety and effectiveness 
of tailings dams across the Group;
• considered the Group’s position on climate change; 
• continued its work on reducing fatalities, especially at 
the higher risk “focus assets”. For this purpose it received 
a report on, reviewed and made recommendations in 
respect of, each fatality;
• continued the implementation of the SafeWork 
programme focusing on identification of fatal hazards 
and an appropriate safety culture;
• oversaw an introduction of the Group’s revamped internal 
assurance programme for sustainability matters with 
an emphasis on catastrophic hazards and approved the 
assurance plan for 2016;
• oversaw the launch of a social value creation scorecard;
• undertook site visits;
• reviewed and oversaw the substantial upgrading of the 
Group’s sustainability report;
• reviewed the current corporate practice framework for 
the Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their 
implementation and practice;
• oversaw the introduction of new corporate HSEC policies;
• considered engagement with NGOs on 
sustainability matters;
• held an investor roadshow to inform and receive feedback 
on the Company’s sustainable development strategy and 
approach to HSEC management; and
• considered a variety of other material HSEC issues such 
as resettlement programmes, incident reporting and 
health strategy.
Peter Coates
Chairman of the HSEC Committee
7 March 2016 89 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Statement by the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman 
I am pleased to present a short report reflecting the Group’s 
straightforward compensation arrangements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. The report also describes how 
the Board has complied with the provisions set out in the 
revised UK Corporate Governance Code relating to 
remuneration matters.
There were no changes to the composition of the Board 
during 2015. 
Ivan Glasenberg remains the Group CEO and the only 
Executive Director. For the fifth year in succession, the 
CEO waived any right to participation in any form of 
variable pay and therefore was not eligible for any form 
of bonus or long-term incentive award. During this period 
his salary has not increased and his 2014 total remuneration 
(the latest against which a comparison can be made) of 
c.$1.5m was the fourth lowest for a CEO in the FTSE 100 
index. Mr Glasenberg owns approximately 8.4% of the 
shares in the Company with the value of his holding 
therefore falling along with other continuing holders’ 
during 2015 which, although not included within the 
statutory remuneration disclosures, demonstrates the close 
alignment of his overall position to that of other 
shareholders.
Although, as a Jersey registered company headquartered 
in Switzerland, Glencore is not subject to the UK’s 
remuneration reporting regime, we consider it to be broadly 
reflective of good practice and have prepared this report in 
compliance with it, unless stated otherwise. 
Over the following pages we have set out details of the 
implementation of our reward policy in 2015 including:
• the governance surrounding pay decisions, members 
of the Committee and advisers to the Committee in 2015; 
and
• details of what was paid to the Executive Director during 
the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
The Group’s forward-looking Directors’ Remuneration 
(“DR”) Policy has not changed since it was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM. A summary of the key of the 
DR Policy is set out below and the full DR Policy is available 
on our website at: www.glencore.com/who-we-are/
board-of-directors/governance-downloads/
Since (1) there has been no change to the DR Policy or 
practice and (2) the DR Policy and the 2014 DR Report 
were each approved at the 2014 AGM and 2015 AGM  
respectively with average votes in excess of 98%, no 
resolution will be put to shareholders by the Board on the 
DR Policy at the 2016 AGM, although a resolution will be 
proposed to approve this DR Report. 
Our external auditors have reported on certain parts 
of the DR Report and confirmed that, in their opinion, 
those parts of the report have been properly prepared. 
Those sections of the report which have been subject to 
audit are clearly indicated.
We have sought to ensure that our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy and its implementation are attractive to shareholders 
in reflecting good governance, complete simplicity and 
reasonable terms. 
John Mack
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
7 March 2016 90 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Part A – Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The DR Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the Company continues its obligation to only make 
payments within the limits it allows. The Policy will be put to a shareholder vote the earlier of once every three years 
or when an amendment to the Policy is proposed. As the Policy is not being put forward for shareholder approval at 
the 2016 AGM, it has not been included in this Report. However, a summary is set out below and it is reproduced in 
full on our website at: www.glencore.com/who-we-are/board-of-directors/governance-downloads/
Summary of Directors’ Remuneration Policy
General Policy for Executive Directors
• To facilitate the attraction, retention and motivation 
of Executive Directors and other senior executives of 
appropriately high calibre to implement the Group’s 
strategy in alignment with the interests of shareholders
• One exceptional aspect of our CEO’s remuneration 
is that, at his instigation and reflecting his status as 
a major shareholder, he waives participation in bonus 
or LTI arrangements, a policy which has continued 
into the current year
Long-Term Incentives
• The Glencore Performance Share Plan incentivises 
the creation of shareholder value over the longer term 
• No Executive Director has, to date, participated, 
although this will be kept under review to ensure 
it remains appropriate
Base salary
• Provides market competitive fixed remuneration 
• The Committee has not increased the salary level for 
any Executive Director since 2011
Significant Personal Shareholdings
• Aligns the interests of executives and shareholders
• The Committee has set a formal shareholding requirement 
for Executive Directors of 300% of salary
• The CEO has a beneficial ownership of over 8% of the 
Company’s issued share capital
Benefits
• To provide appropriate supporting non-monetary benefits
• Benefits received by Mr Glasenberg comprise salary 
loss (long-term sickness) and accident insurance/
travel insurance with a limit of $20,000 p.a.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
• Reflects time commitment, experience, global nature and 
size of the Company
• Non-Executive Directors and the Senior Independent 
Director receive a base fee
• Additional fees are paid for chairing or membership 
of a Board committee
• Chairman receives a single inclusive fee 
• Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for any other 
remuneration or benefits of any nature
• No fees have been increased since 2011
Pension
• Provides basic retirement benefits which reflects local 
market practice
• Mr Glasenberg participates in the standard pension 
scheme for all Baar (Switzerland)-based employees with 
an annual cap on the cost of provision of retirement 
benefits of $150,000 p.a.
Annual Bonus Plan
• Supports delivery of short-term operational, financial 
and strategic goals
• The Committee has set a maximum annual bonus level 
of 200% of base salary p.a.
• The CEO has not participated in the Annual Bonus Plan 
since 2011  91 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Directors’ contractual terms 
All Directors’ contracts and letters of appointment will be 
available for inspection on the terms to be specified in the 
Notice of 2016 AGM.
Executive Director’s contract
The table below summarises the key features of the service 
contract for Mr Glasenberg who served as an Executive 
Director throughout 2015.
Provision Service contract terms
Notice period 12 months’ notice by either party
Contract date 28 April 2011 (as amended on 
30 October 2013)
Expiry date Rolling service contract
Termination payment No special arrangements or 
entitlements on termination. 
Mr Glasenberg’s contract was 
amended on 30 October 2013 to 
clarify that any compensation 
would be limited to base salary 
only for any unexpired notice 
period (plus any accrued leave)
Change in control On a change of control of the 
Company, no provision for any 
enhanced payments, nor for any 
liquidated damages
Malus and clawback Provisions allow the Committee 
to reduce or clawback bonus 
payments in certain 
circumstances of wrongdoing
External appointments
Mr Glasenberg held external directorships of Rusal plc and 
Pirelli & C. SpA during 2015. He assigns to the Group any 
compensation which he receives from any external board 
directorships. The appropriateness of these appointments 
is considered as part of the annual review of Directors’ 
interests/potential conflicts.
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
and re-election
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment 
with the Company for an initial period of three years from 
their date of appointment, subject to reappointment at each 
AGM. The Company may terminate each appointment by 
immediate notice and there are no special arrangements 
or entitlements on termination except that the Chairman 
is entitled to three months’ notice. 
Annual fees for 2015 were paid in accordance with a 
Non-Executive Director’s role and responsibilities as 
follows. These fees remained unchanged from the 
previous year:
2015
2015 fee in  
US$ ‘000
Directors
Chairman 1,056
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 170
Non-Executive Director 124
Remuneration Committee
Chairman 44
Member 23
Audit Committee
Chairman 55
Member 31
Nomination Committee
Chairman 36
Member 19
HSEC Committee
Chairman 125
Member 19 92 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Part B – Implementation Report
Implementation Report – Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee
Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee 
We believe that the members of the Committee provide a 
useful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to 
provide the critical analysis required in carrying out the 
Committee’s function. John Mack, the Chairman of the 
Committee, has had a long career in investment bank 
management and therefore provides considerable 
experience of remuneration analysis and implementation. 
William Macaulay has had a long tenure in private equity 
which has involved exposure to remuneration issues many 
times and in a variety of situations while Leonhard Fischer 
is a career banker who similarly has had considerable 
exposure to issues of pay and incentives.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are 
considered to be independent. Further details concerning 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors are contained 
on page 76 of the Annual Report.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role. 
They are available on the Company’s website at: 
www.glencore.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/
board-committees
Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to:
• set the Company’s executive remuneration policy 
(and review its ongoing relevance and appropriateness);
• establish the remuneration packages for the Executive 
Director including the scope of pension benefits;
• determine the remuneration package for the Chairman, 
in consultation with the Chief Executive;
• have responsibility for overseeing schemes of 
performance related remuneration (including share 
incentive plans) for, and determine awards for, 
the Executive Director (as appropriate);
• ensure that the contractual terms on termination for 
the Executive Director are fair and not excessive; and
• monitor senior management remuneration.
The Committee considers corporate performance on HSEC 
and governance issues when setting remuneration for the 
Executive Director. The Committee seeks to ensure that 
the incentive structure for the Group’s senior management 
does not raise HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Remuneration Committee meetings
The Committee met three times during the year and 
considered, amongst other matters, the remuneration policy 
applicable to the Executive Director, senior management 
remuneration policy, including its level and structure, the 
form and structure of grants to employees under 
the Company’s Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share 
Plan, and the content and approval of the DR Report.
The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend 
some or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee 
meetings. They do not participate in any decisions 
concerning their own remuneration.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The Committee appointed and received independent 
remuneration advice during the year from its external 
adviser, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (“FIT”). 
FIT is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
(the UK professional body for these consultants) and 
adheres to its code of conduct. The Committee was 
satisfied that the advice provided by FIT was objective and 
independent. FIT’s fees for this advice in respect of 2015 
were $4,094 (2014: $36,052). FIT’s fees were charged on the 
basis of the firm’s standard terms of business for advice 
provided. The Committee also receives advice from John 
Burton, the Company Secretary.
In addition, FIT supported the Group in considering the 
remuneration implications of the Agriculture business 
accepting external minority investors. It was considered that 
using the Committee’s adviser would both be cost efficient 
and ensure that the Committee’s remuneration principles 
were duly reflected in the review.
Relative importance of remuneration spend 
The table below illustrates the change in total remuneration, 
dividends paid and net profit from 2014 to 2015.
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Dividends and buy-backs 2,898 3,039
Net (loss)/income attributable to 
equity holders (4,964) 2,308
Total remuneration 5,287 6,011
The figures presented have been calculated on the 
following bases:
• Dividends and buy-backs – dividends paid during the 
financial year plus the cost of shares bought back during 
the year.
• Net (loss)/income attributable to equity holders – 
our reported net loss in respect of the financial year. 
The Committee believes it is the most direct reflection of 
our financial performance.
• Total remuneration – represents total personnel costs 
as disclosed in note 22 to the financial statements which 
includes salaries, wages, social security, other personnel 
costs and share-based payments. 93 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Performance graph and table 
This graph shows the value to 31 December 2015, on a total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) basis, of £100 invested 
in Glencore plc on 24 May 2011 (IPO date) compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 350 Mining Index.
The FTSE 350 Mining Index is considered to be an 
appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is an equity 
index consisting of companies listed in London in the same 
sector as Glencore.
The UK reporting regulations also require that a TSR 
performance graph is supported by a table summarising 
aspects of CEO remuneration, as shown below for the same 
period as the TSR performance graph:
FTSE 350 Mining Index
Glencore
100
80
60
40
20
0
18 May 
2011
31 Dec 
2015
31 Dec 
2014
31 Dec 
2013
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec 
2012
Performance
 
Single figure of 
total remuneration
1
(US$’000)
Annual variable element  
award rates against 
maximum opportunity
2
Long-term incentive  
vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity
2
2015 Ivan Glasenberg 1,510 _ _
2014 Ivan Glasenberg 1,513 – –
2013 Ivan Glasenberg 1,509 – –
2012 Ivan Glasenberg 1,533 – –
2011 Ivan Glasenberg 1,483 – –
1 The value of benefits and pension provision in the single figure vary as a result of the application of exchange rates although in the relevant local currency these parts of Mr Glasenberg’s 
remuneration have  not altered since May 2011. In this table the figures are reported in US dollar, the currency in which Mr Glasenberg received his salary in 2015. The salary was 
payable in pounds sterling prior to 2014. Therefore those figures have been translated into US dollar at the exchange rates used for the preparation of the financial statements in those 
years. Mr Glasenberg’s pension and other benefits are charged to the Group in Swiss Francs and these amounts are translated into US dollar on the same basis. 
2 The CEO has requested not to be considered for these potential awards.
Percentage change in pay of Chief Executive Officer  
The UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, provide 
for disclosure of percentage changes of the CEO’s remuneration against the average percentage change for employees 
generally or an appropriate group of employees. Given that the CEO has, since May 2011, waived any entitlement to any 
increase in salary (and given that his only other unwaived benefits are those provided to all employees at the Company’s 
head office in Baar) no such comparison has been made. In the event the Executive Director receives an increase in salary 
in future then a suitable disclosure in respect of these regulations will be considered.
Most recent shareholder voting outcomes 
The votes cast (1) to approve the Directors’ remuneration report, for the year ended 31 December 2014, at the 2015 AGM 
held on 7 May 2015 and (2) to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM on 20 May 2014, were:
Votes “For” Votes “Against” Votes “Abstentions” (as a total of votes cast)
Directors’ remuneration report
99.18% 0.82% 0.00%
(9,707 ,522,831) (80,110,114) (9,604,796)
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
97.93% 2.07% 2.60%
(8,539,263,284) (180,199,515) (226,561,025) 94 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
No resolution will be tabled to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM as the Policy in respect to 
Directors’ remuneration did not change in 2015. 
The Committee seeks to have a productive and ongoing dialogue with investors on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
remuneration aspects of corporate governance, any changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements and 
developments as to executive remuneration issues in general.
Implementation of policy in 2016
No change to any aspect of Directors’ remuneration is envisaged for 2016.
Implementation Report – Audited Information
Single Figure Table
Salary Benefits
Annual 
Bonus
Long-term 
incentives Pension Total
US$’000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Ivan Glasenberg 1,447 1,447 2 2 – – – – 61 64 1,510 1,513
The notes to the performance table above also apply in relation to the compilation of this table. As no bonuses or long-term 
incentives have been granted to Mr Glasenberg, there are no relevant performance measures to be disclosed although see 
the first page of this report as to the alignment of his position with that of other shareholders. 
Non-Executive fees
The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors for 2015 were as follows:
Name
Total 2015  
US$’000
Total 2014  
US$’000
Non-Executive Chairman
Anthony Hayward 1,056 1,056
Non-Executive Directors
Leonhard Fischer
1
221 219
William Macaulay 178 178
Peter Coates 249 249
Peter Grauer
2
237 218
John Mack 187 187
Patrice Merrin
3
143 72
1 Mr Fischer was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 13 February 2014. 
2 Mr Grauer was appointed as the Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 13 February 2014 and the Senior Independent Director on 20 May 2014.
3 Ms Merrin was appointed a Director on 26 June 2014; on 14 August 2014 she was appointed to the HSEC Committee. 
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors for 2015 (including pension contributions) were $3,781,000 (2014: $3,692,000). 
The only Director participant in a pension plan was Mr Glasenberg.
Directors’ interests
The Directors’ interests in shares are set out in the Directors’ report which is set out after this report. Mr Glasenberg’s 
holding is considerably in excess of the formal share ownership guideline for Executive Directors of 300% of salary.
Approval
This report in its entirety has been approved by the Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
John Mack
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
7 March 2016 95 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Introduction
This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the 
affairs of Glencore plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(“the Group” or “Glencore”), together with the financial 
statements and auditor’s report, for the year ended 
31 December 2015. The Directors’ report includes details 
of the business, the development of the Group and likely 
future developments as set out in the Strategic Report, 
which together forms the management report for the 
purposes of the UK Financial Services Authority’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.8R. The notice 
concerning forward-looking statements is set out at the end 
of the Annual Report. References to the Company may also 
include references to the Group or part of the Group.
Corporate structure
Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, 
incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland. 
Its shares are listed on the London, Johannesburg and 
Hong Kong Stock Exchanges.
Financial results and distributions 
The Group’s financial results are set out in the financial 
statements section of this Annual Report.
An interim distribution of $0.06 per share has already been 
paid for the 2015 financial year. As announced on 
7 September 2015, no final distribution will be proposed 
for the 2015 financial year.
Review of business, future developments and post 
balance sheet events
A review of the business and the future developments 
of the Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material 
changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, 
including post balance sheet events, is included in the 
Financial review and in note 24 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and 
financial risk management objectives and policies, including 
hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in notes 25 
and 26 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance and compliance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the 
Corporate governance report and forms part of this report 
by reference.
Health, safety, environment & communities (“HSEC”)
An overview of health, safety and environmental 
performance and community participation is provided in 
the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
Exploration and research and development
The Group business units carry out exploration and 
research and development activities that are necessary 
to support and expand their operations.
Employee policies and involvement
Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims 
to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the 
basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other 
basis. Applications for employment and promotion are 
fully considered on their merits, and employees are given 
appropriate training and equal opportunities for career 
development and promotion.
Where disability occurs during employment, the Group 
seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably 
possible, including with appropriate training. 
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of 
its employees which is reflected in the principles of its Code 
of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires regular, 
open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for 
human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, 
a safe working environment. 
Employee communication is mainly provided by the 
Group’s intranet and corporate website. A range of 
information is made available to employees including all 
policies applicable to them as well as information on the 
Group’s financial performance and the main drivers of its 
business. Employee consultation depends upon the type 
and location of operation or office. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Under Jersey law and the Company’s Articles of Association 
(which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006), 
a Director must avoid a situation in which the Director has, 
or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company. 
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised 
by the Directors. Under the Articles, the Board has the 
power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations. 
The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the 
Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential 
conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed 
and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board. 
Directors’ conflict situations are reviewed annually. 
A register of authorisations is maintained. 96 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Directors’ liabilities and indemnities
The Company has granted third party indemnities to each 
of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them in 
defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent 
permitted by Jersey Law. In addition, Directors and officers 
of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by directors 
& officers liability insurance.
Directors and officers
The names of the Company’s Directors and officers who 
were in office at the end of 2015, together with their 
biographical details and other information, are shown on 
pages 72 to 74.
Directors’ interests
Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of 
those Directors who held office during 2015 are given below:
Name 
Number of 
Glencore Shares
Percentage of 
Total Voting 
Rights
Executive Directors
Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957 ,850 8.42
Non-Executive Directors
Peter Coates 1,585,150
1
0.01
Anthony Hayward 244,907 0.00
Leonhard Fischer ––
William Macaulay 1,700,000 0.01
Peter Grauer 129,792 0.00
John Mack 750,000 0.00
Patrice Merrin 43,997 0.00
1 Peter Coates also has 484,156 options over shares arising from his prior employment 
with Xstrata which are not included in the above table. 
No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the 
Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
No changes in Directors’ interests of those in office at the 
date of this report have occurred between 31 December 2015 
and 6 March 2016.
Mr Glasenberg has executed a Lock-Up Deed, pursuant to 
which he agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, 
that during the period from 24 May 2011 to 24 May 2016 
he will not dispose of a certain percentage of the ordinary 
shares held by him at 24 May 2011. The percentage of 
his ordinary shares held at 24 May 2011 that is subject to 
restrictions on disposal decreases on each anniversary 
date by 20% of the original holding.
Share capital and shareholder rights
As at 6 March 2016, the issued ordinary share capital of 
the Company was $145,862,001 represented by 14,586,200,066 
ordinary shares of $0.01 each, of which 191,459,158 shares are 
held in treasury and 174,404,359 shares are held by group 
employee benefit trusts. 
On 16 September 2015 1,307 ,794,600 new ordinary shares in 
the Company were issued to existing and new institutional 
shareholders including certain Directors and employees of 
Glencore by way of a placing at a price of GBP 1.25 per share, 
raising gross proceeds of $2.5 billion. These shares 
represented 9.99% of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital prior to the issue.
Major interests in shares
As at 6 March 2016 Glencore had been notified of the 
following interests representing 3% or more of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of holder Number of shares
Percentage  
of Total Voting 
Rights
Qatar Holding 1,331,513,534 9.25
Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957 ,850 8.42
Harris Associates 1 , 1 5 7, 33 7, 1 6 9 8 . 04   
BlackRock Inc 838,224,924 5.82
Daniel Maté 464,136,143 3.22
Aristotelis Mistakidis 456,175,134 3.17
Share capital
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, 
being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association (the “ Articles”), which 
can be found at www.glencore.com. Subject to Jersey law, 
any share may be issued with or have attached to it such 
preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions as 
the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such 
resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not 
make specific provision, as the Board may decide. 
No such resolution is currently in effect. Subject to the 
recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares 
may receive a dividend. On liquidation, holders of ordinary 
shares may share in the assets of the Company. Holders of 
ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Company’s 
Annual Report and Accounts (or a summarised version) and, 
subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the 
Board to convene a general meeting (“GM”) or the proposal 
of resolutions at AGMs. None of the ordinary shares carry 
any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak 
at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies 
or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate 
representative. On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary 
shares who (being an individual) is present in person or 
(being a corporation) is present by a duly appointed 
corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall 
have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 
share of which he is the holder. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions must be received not 
later than 48 hours before a GM. A holder of ordinary shares  97 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder 
has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed 
to provide the Company with information concerning 
interests held in those shares. Except as (1) set out above 
and (2) permitted under applicable statutes, there are no 
limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, 
number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a 
certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that 
the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the 
Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or 
where the Company has a lien over that share. The Directors 
may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share 
unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) lodged, duly stamped 
(if necessary), at the registered office of the Company or any 
other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the 
certificate for the share(s) to be transferred and/or such 
other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require as 
proof of title; or (ii) in respect of only one class of shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of 
an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations 
governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of 
transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of 
shareholders. The Directors cannot suspend the registration 
of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining 
consent from CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 
shares in the Company except: (1) certain restrictions may 
from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations 
(for example insider trading laws); (2) pursuant to the 
Company’s share dealing code whereby the Directors and 
certain employees of the Company require approval to deal 
in the Company’s shares; and (3) where a shareholder with 
at least a 0.25% interest in the Company’s issued share 
capital has been served with a disclosure notice and has 
failed to provide the Company with information concerning 
interests in those shares. There are no agreements between 
holders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company 
which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors 
are set out in the Articles. Directors can be appointed by the 
Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board 
upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 
The Company can remove a Director from office, including 
by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given 
by all the other Directors. The Company may amend its 
Articles by special resolution approved at a GM.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and 
provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the 
Company including to borrow money. The Company may 
by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, 
and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in 
accordance with its Articles and Jersey law. 
Purchase of own shares 
In early 2015 the Company completed its $1 billion share 
repurchase programme announced to the market on 
20 August 2014. For 2015, the total number of ordinary 
shares repurchased under this programme was 58,050,000 at 
a cost of $240 million. Further details are set out in note 15 to 
the financial statements. 
This programme had been implemented in accordance 
with the UK Listing Rules and the Directors’ authority 
under a shareholders’ resolution passed on 20 May 2014 to 
purchase in the market up to 10% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares. The Directors will seek to renew this 
authority at the Company’s AGM to be held on 19 May 2016. 
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic 
Report. Furthermore, notes 25 and 26 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives and policies 
for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk. 
Significant financing activities that took place during the 
year are detailed in the Financial review section. 
The results of the Group, principally pertaining to its 
industrial asset base, is exposed to fluctuations in both 
commodity prices and currency exchange rates whereas the 
performance of marketing activities is primarily physical 
volume driven with commodity price risk substantially 
hedged.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation, having made 
appropriate enquiries that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The Directors have made this assessment after consideration 
of the Group’s budgeted cash flows and related assumptions 
including appropriate stress testing of the identified 
uncertainties (being primarily commodity prices and 
currency exchange rates), assessment of asset disposal 
initiatives and undrawn credit facilities, monitoring of debt 
maturities, and after review of the Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting 2014 as published by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council.  98 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Longer-term viability
In accordance with paragraph C2.2 of the Code, the 
Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group’s 
viability over a longer period than the 12 months required 
by the Going Concern assessment above. The Board has 
assessed the viability of the Group over a four-year period. 
This period is consistent with the Group’s established 
annual business planning and forecasting processes and 
cycle which is subject to review and approval each year by 
the Board. The four-year plan considers Glencore’s EBITDA, 
Capital Expenditure, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) and 
Net Debt, and the key financial ratios of Net Debt to EBITDA 
and FFO to Net Debt over the forecasted years and 
incorporates stress tests to simulate the potential impacts of 
exposure to the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties as 
set out on pages 28to 35. These scenarios included:
• a prolonged downturn in the price and demand of 
commodities most impacting Glencore’s operations;
• foreign exchange movements to which the Group is 
exposed as a result of its global operations; and
• consideration of the potential impact of adverse 
movements in macro-economic assumptions and their 
effect on certain key financial KPIs and ratios which could 
increase the Group’s access to or cost of funding. 
The scenarios were assessed taking into account current risk 
appetite and any mitigating actions Glencore could take, 
as required, in response to the potential realisation of any 
of the stressed scenarios. 
Based on the results of the related analysis, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the four-year period of this assessment.
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval 
of this Annual Report confirms that:
(a)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and
(b)  the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue 
in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for 
use in the European Union (together “IFRS”). The financial 
statements are required by law to be properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial 
statements present fairly for each financial year the 
Company’s financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of 
the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 
accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria 
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the 
International Accounting Standards Board’s “Framework 
for the preparation and presentation of financial statements” .
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be 
achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs. 
However, the Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, 
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are responsible 
for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
John Burton
Company Secretary 
7 March 2016 99 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.4C
In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.4C the Company discloses the following information:
Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure
9.8.4(1) Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(2) Unaudited financial information as required (LR 9.2.18) See Chief Executive Officer’s review
9.8.4(4) Long-term incentive plans involving a sole director (LR 9.4.3) Not applicable
9.8.4(5) Director waivers of emoluments See Directors’ remuneration report 
9.8.4(6) Director waivers of future emoluments See Directors’ remuneration report 
9.8.4(7) Non pro-rata allotments of equity for cash (The Company) See note 15 to the financial statements for 
details of a placing of shares 
9.8.4(8) Non pro-rata allotments of equity for cash (major subsidiaries) Not applicable
9.8.4(9) Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable
9.8.4(10) Contracts of significance involving a Director None
9.8.4(11) Contracts of significance involving a controlling shareholder Not applicable
9.8.4(12) Waivers of dividends See note 15 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(13) Waivers of future dividends See note 15 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(14) Agreement with a controlling shareholder (LR 92.2. AR(2)(a)) Not applicable
Confirmation of Directors’ responsibilities
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• the consolidated financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European 
Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and 
interpretations as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board and the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and loss of the Group and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
• the management report, which is incorporated in the 
Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties they face; and
• the Annual Report and consolidated financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy 
and business model of the Company.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 were approved 
on 7 March 2016 by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board:
Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg
Chairman  Chief Executive Officer 
7 March 2016 Financial statements
100 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial 
statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
101 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
102 Independent Auditor’s Report
110 Consolidated statement of (loss)/income
111  Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
(loss)/income
112 Consolidated statement of financial position
113 Consolidated statement of cash flows
115 Consolidated statement of changes of equity
116 Notes to the financial statements 102 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Opinion on financial statements of Glencore plc
In our opinion the financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the year 
then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated 
Statement of (Loss)/Income, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive (Loss)/Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes of Equity and 
the related notes 1 to 34. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued 
by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in 
addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment 
of the principal risks that would threaten the 
solvency or liquidity of the Group
We have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting 
contained within note 1 to the financial statements and 
the Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability 
of the Group contained within the Governance section  
of the Annual Report. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in 
relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 80 that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 28 - 35 and pages 80 - 84 that 
describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
• the Directors’ statement in note 1 to the financial 
statements about whether they considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing them and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do 
so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of 
approval of the financial statements; and
• the Director’s explanation on page 98 as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period 
they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going 
concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any 
such material uncertainties. However, because not all 
future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement 
is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm 
that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those 
standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the 
efforts of the engagement team. 
In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, 
we have considered any significant changes in the 
Group’s operations and the broader market conditions 
that may influence the audit risk profile of the Group. 
The announcement of the Group’s capital preservation/debt 
reduction plans on 7 September 2015 resulted in a new risk 
of material misstatement compared to the prior year and 
a consequential change in our current year audit focus 
and effort.
Last year our report included a risk associated with 
acquisition accounting with respect to the finalisation 
of the accounting for the acquisition of Xstrata plc. 
Accounting for this acquisition was finalised in the prior 
year and there were no material acquisitions in the current 
year, as such this risk has not been included as a key risk 
in the current year.
The description of risks below should be read in 
conjunction with the significant issues considered by the 
Audit Committee discussed on page 86. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Independent Auditor’s Report to 
the members of Glencore plc 103 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Capital preservation/Debt reduction plans
On 7 September 2015, the Group announced a number 
of measures to preserve capital and reduce debt by 
31 December 2016 in response to a lower commodity price 
landscape. An update of the measures was announced on 
10 December 2015.
Due to the bespoke nature of some of the specific measures 
announced and the resultant market focus on them, we 
identified a heightened key audit risk relating to potential 
management override and earnings management with 
respect to fair presentation and disclosure of financial 
performance and position. 
Fair presentation and disclosure is achieved when the 
transactions underpinning the announced measures 
have been recorded: 
• when the transaction has occurred (occurrence 
and existence);
• in accordance with the substance of the transaction 
(rights and obligations and classification);
• in the correct amount in the appropriate accounting 
period (measurement and cut-off); and 
• in accordance with the requirements of IFRS including 
appropriate presentation and disclosure (presentation 
and disclosure).
Refer to “Key judgements” within note 1 and additionally 
notes 11, 13, 20, and 23. 
To scope our audit and respond to the risks associated with 
the announced measures we have:
• undertaken a detailed assessment of each of the 
announced measures to assess how they may impact 
the Group and therefore our required audit response;
• enhanced our Group and component audit approach 
and risk assessment to address the risk of material 
misstatement and potential management bias associated 
with the transactions underlying these measures, 
particularly where significant judgements, estimates 
and assumptions are applied;
• for individually material transactions relating to the 
announced measures that were completed during the  
year ended 31 December 2015, reviewed and tested 
these with reference to supporting documentation 
(e.g. contractual agreements) and assessed the associated 
accounting treatment focusing on the fair presentation 
and disclosure; and
• developed specific responses for each announced 
production curtailment and suspended operation through 
additional focus on impairment of assets, retrenchment 
and related restructuring provisions, accounting for 
onerous contracts, impact on depreciation of assets and 
cost capitalisation (see “Impairments” below).  104 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Glencore plc
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Impairments
The carrying value of the Group’s non-current assets, which 
includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, 
investments in associates and joint ventures, amounted to 
$86,287 million at 31 December 2015.
The continued volatility in commodity prices to which the 
Group is significantly exposed and the Group’s suspension 
or reduction in production of at several of the operations are 
factors which heighten the risk of impairment associated 
with the Group’s non-current assets.
Recoverability of these non-current assets is dependent 
on macro-economic assumptions about future commodity 
prices, discount and exchange rates as well as internal 
assumptions related to future production levels and 
operating costs.
These estimates are particularly significant due to 
commodity price volatility across the base metals and 
energy assets, assumed future production and the uncertain 
economic outlook. The outcome of impairment assessments 
could vary significantly were different assumptions applied.
In total, impairments amounting to $7 ,120 million were 
recognised in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Refer to “Key estimates and assumptions” within note 1 and 
additionally notes 3 and 5. 
We reviewed management’s assessment of the indicators 
of impairment and challenged the significant assumptions 
used in this initial review.
Where significant indicators of impairment were identified, 
we utilised Deloitte mining valuation specialists to assess 
the appropriateness of management’s recoverable value 
models, which included the underlying model inputs and 
significant assumptions.
We challenged the significant inputs and assumptions used 
in impairment testing for intangible assets, property, plant 
and equipment, associates and joint ventures, specifically 
the commodity price, foreign exchange, assumed production 
levels operating cost and discount rate assumptions, 
including consideration of the risk of management bias. 
Our challenge included comparing inputs and significant 
assumptions, such as commodity price, foreign exchange, 
and discount rates, to third party forecasts, Deloitte 
developed discount rates, production to life of mine plans 
and reserves and resources estimates, assessing whether 
assumptions had been applied on a consistent basis across 
the Group. 
We performed sensitivity analyses on non-current 
assets, including those which were not identified as 
having indicators of impairment but have a higher risk 
of impairment due to lower available headroom in fair 
value models, volatility in key pricing assumptions or the 
existence of operational circumstances which may indicate 
potential impairment. We also assessed the adequacy of 
impairment related disclosures in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition
Revenue recognition has been identified as a risk primarily 
relating to the following:
• The completeness and accuracy of the capture of 
trades within the trade book and the timing of revenue 
recognition for commodity sales with deliveries occurring 
on or around year end 
• Judgement is required to determine when risks and 
rewards have transferred under certain contractual 
arrangements with third parties
• Due to the significant volume of transactions and the 
complexity of the supporting IT systems, minor errors 
could, in aggregate, have a material impact on the 
financial statements
Refer to note 1. 
We carried out testing relating to internal controls, including 
IT general controls surrounding major IT applications 
and critical interfaces over revenue recognition and 
completeness and accuracy of trade capture. 
On a sample basis, we agreed deliveries occurring near 
31 December 2015 to supporting documentation to assess 
that the IFRS revenue recognition criteria were met for 
recognised sales and obtained third party confirmations 
where relevant to check completeness and accuracy of 
trade books. 
We also performed testing on journal entries using 
computer assisted profiling techniques to test for any 
management override of internal controls related to 
revenue recognition. 105 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Fair value measurements within the marketing operations
Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, 
financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective 
area often requiring significant estimates, particularly 
where valuations utilise unobservable inputs (e.g. credit risk 
assessments, market volatility and forecast operational 
estimates). At 31 December 2015, total Level 3 Other 
financial assets and liabilities amounted to $224 million 
and $392 million respectively. 
As the Group’s marketing inventories and other financial 
assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at each 
reporting date, these fair value measurements significantly 
impact the Group’s results.
Refer to “Key estimates and assumptions” within note 1 
and additionally notes 26 and 27.
We carried out internal control testing over management’s 
processes for determining inputs to fair value measurements 
and performed detailed substantive testing on a sample 
basis of the related fair value measurements. We specifically 
tested the evidence supporting unobservable inputs 
utilised in Level 3 measurements in the fair value hierarchy 
as outlined in note 27 to the financial statements, which 
included reviews of broker quotes, recent transactions and 
other supporting documentation. 
Classification of financial instruments
Further to the above, classification of contracts relating 
to the Group’s marketing operations is a judgemental area, 
particularly sales contracts where the Group physically 
delivers its own production to a third party (“own 
use”), rather than those which form part of the Group’s 
marketing operations. 
Differences in classification affect recognition of associated 
gains and losses as contracts which are “own use” are 
exempt from mark-to-market accounting. 
Classification of the Group’s financial instruments within 
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position requires an 
assessment of the relevant contractual terms (e.g. to identify 
embedded derivatives) and in some cases the application 
of judgement.
Refer to notes 26 and 27.
We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies 
and associated product flows within the Group’s marketing 
departments. We analysed the trade books to identify 
incidents where contracts were not physically delivered 
(“net settled”), which may indicate tainting of the “own use” 
criteria. 
Where a contract had been net settled, we checked that the 
contract was appropriately ring-fenced from the “own use” 
trade book and marked to market reflecting the underlying 
facts and circumstances.
We assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in the 
financial statements in accordance with the requirements 
of IFRS.
Credit and performance risk
The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising 
from the Group’s global marketing operations and trade 
advances, particularly in markets demonstrating significant 
price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal markets. 
This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, 
where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery 
and customers are unable to make payments.
At 31 December 2015, total Advances and loans and 
Accounts receivable amounted to $3,005 million and 
$17 ,001 million respectively. 
Refer to notes 11, 13 and 26.
We undertook internal control testing of the Group’s 
centralised and local credit and performance risk 
monitoring procedures. 
We challenged management’s assessment of the 
recoverability of aged and overdue receivables, loans and 
advance payments with delayed or overdue deliveries, 
considering historical patterns of trading and settlement 
as well as recent communications with the counterparties. 
In addition, we made specific inquiries to understand 
positions in commodities across the Group given the high 
price volatility during the year, particularly with respect 
to base metals, energy and certain agricultural products. 106 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Glencore plc
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Taxation
There is significant judgement around accounting for 
income taxes particularly in light of the number of 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including 
judgements concerning residency of key corporate 
operations and holding companies, provisioning for 
tax exposures, application of transfer pricing rules, the 
recognition of deferred income tax assets and the taxation 
impacts of any corporate restructurings.
This gives rise to complexity and uncertainty in respect of 
the calculation of income taxes and deferred tax assets and 
consideration of contingent liabilities associated with tax 
years open to audit.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group has recorded a tax 
expense of $98 million, $3,931 million of net deferred tax 
liabilities and has disclosed its assessment of tax-related 
contingent liabilities in note 30.
Refer to “Key judgements” within note 1 and additionally 
notes 6 and 30.
We undertook a specific assessment of the material 
components impacting the Group’s tax expense, balances 
and exposures and performed detailed audit procedures 
in relation to these.
We considered the appropriateness of management’s 
assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of 
generating future taxable profits to support the recognition 
of deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable 
profits and consistency of these forecasts with the 
Group’s budgets. 
We reviewed and challenged management’s assessment 
of uncertain tax positions and conclusions on complex tax 
arrangements through discussions with the Group taxation 
department, reviewing correspondence with local tax 
authorities, reviewing third party expert tax opinions and 
utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where appropriate, to assess 
the adequacy of associated provisions and disclosures. 107 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement 
in the financial statements that makes it probable that the 
economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person 
would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both 
in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating 
the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $210 million 
(2014: $300 million), which is approximately 6.0% of 
normalised three-year average pre-tax profit (2014: 6.4% of 
2014 pre-tax profit), and equates to less than 1% (2014: 1%) 
of equity. 
Materiality
Normalised three-year average PBT
Maximum Component materiality
Group materiality
Audit Committee reporting threshold
USD 3,519m
USD 210m 6.0%
USD 10m
USD 100m
USD 210m
In the current year, we have reassessed our methodology 
for the determination of materiality going forward by 
using a percentage of normalised three-year average 
(2013 – 2015) of pre-tax profits instead of a percentage of 
current year normalised pre-tax profit. This reassessed 
approach was determined to be more appropriate given the 
nature of the mining industry which is exposed to cyclical 
commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a 
more stable base reflective of the scale of the Group’s size 
and operations. 
The pre-tax profits for the 2013 – 2015 years have been 
normalised in determining materiality to exclude items 
which, due to their nature and/or expected infrequency 
of the underlying events, are not considered indicative of 
continuing operations of the Group and so do not form part 
of the Group’s internally or externally monitored primary 
KPIs, and which if included, would distort materiality year 
on year. These normalising items are outlined in notes 3 and 
4 to the financial statements. Additionally, the pro forma 
pre-tax profit for the 2013 year incorporating a full year of 
the acquired Xstrata business was utilised to consistently 
reflect the current scale of the Group.
Audits undertaken at the component level for Group 
reporting purposes were performed at levels of materiality 
applicable to each individual entity of which were lower 
than Group materiality and ranged from $6 million to a 
maximum of $100 million (2014: $2 million to $100 million).
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would 
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 
$10 million (2014: $10 million), as well as differences below 
that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the 
overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding 
of the Group and its environment, including group-wide 
controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement 
at the Group level. Based on our continuing assessment, 
we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit 
work at 51 components (2014: 51 Group components), 
representing the Group’s most material marketing 
operations and industrial assets, and utilised 19 component 
audit teams (2014: 20 component audit teams) in 17 countries 
(2014: 18 countries): 
• 34 of these were subject to a full scope audits  
(2014: 36 components); and 
• 17 were subject to specified audit procedures where 
the extent of our testing was based on our assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement and of the 
materiality of the Group’s operations at those locations 
(2014: 15 components). 
These 51 components account for 90% of the Group’s net 
assets (2014: 95%), 89% of the Group’s revenue (2014: 89%) 
and 88% of the Group’s adjusted EBITDA (2014: 93%). 
The above mentioned reduction in Group materiality 
from 2014 did not significantly impact our assessment 
of audit coverage because of the significant number of 
marketing and industrial components already within Group 
audit scope. 108 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Glencore plc
Net assets
72
10
18
   
88
11
1
Revenue
Adjusted EBITDA
82
12
6
 
Coverage percentages
Full scope audits
Specified audit procedures
Analytical procedures
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these 
in-scope components. These detailed audit instructions 
specified areas of audit focus, identified the risks of material 
misstatement assessed by the Group audit team and set out 
the information to be reported back to the Group audit team. 
The instructions were updated during the audit in respect of 
any changes deemed necessary by the Group audit team in 
response to changes in the business or risk assessment.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme 
of regular face-to-face meetings with components that has 
been designed so that the Group Audit Partner or another 
senior member of the Group audit team periodically meets 
with local management and the component audit team on a 
rotational basis. In 2015, the Group audit team held meetings 
with 25 components (2014: 24 components).
Additionally, for all in-scope components, the Group audit 
team was involved in the audit work performed by the 
component auditors through a combination of our global 
planning conference call meetings, provision of referral 
instructions, review and challenge of related component 
inter-office reporting and of findings from their work (which 
included the audit procedures performed to respond to 
risks of material misstatement), attendance at component 
audit closing conference calls and regular interaction on any 
related audit and accounting matters which arose.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 
process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm  
our conclusion that there were no significant risks 
of material misstatement of the aggregated financial 
information of the remaining components not subject 
to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Matters on which we are required to report by 
exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law, 1991 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• proper accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the 
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement 
that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and whether the Annual Report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have 
been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Other matters
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 
2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company. 109 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply 
with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and 
Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are effective, understood 
and applied. Our quality controls and systems include 
our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies 
(Jersey) Law, 1991. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and/or those further matters we have expressly 
agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we 
read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us 
in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Matthew Sheerin, ACA CA (AUS) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor 
London, UK
7 March 2016 110 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Revenue 170,497 221,073
Cost of goods sold (166,982) (214,344)
Selling and administrative expenses (1,271) (1,304)
Share of income from associates and joint ventures 10 101 638
(Losses)/gains on disposals and investments 3 (994) 715
Other expense – net 4 (7 ,998) (1,073)
Dividend income 25 19
Interest income 191 253
Interest expense (1,585) (1,724)
(Loss)/income before income taxes (8,016) 4,253
Income tax expense 6 (98) (1,809)
(Loss)/income for the year (8,114) 2,444
Attributable to: 
Non-controlling interests (3,150) 136
Equity holders (4,964) 2,308
(Loss)/earnings per share:
Basic (US$) 16 (0.37) 0.18
Diluted (US$) 16 (0.37) 0.18
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of (loss)/income
For the year ended 31 December 2015 111 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
(Loss)/income for the year (8,114) 2,444
Other comprehensive (loss)/income 
Items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 
Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/(losses), net of tax of $34 million (2014: $58 million) 22 92 (196)
Net items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 92 (196)
Items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods:
Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations (1,795) (852)
Foreign currency exchange losses recycled to the statement of income 3/24 311 –
(Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax of $42 million (2014: $3 million) (89) 415
Share of comprehensive loss from associates and joint ventures 10 (26) (23)
(Loss)/gain on available for sale financial instruments 10 (488) 501
Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax of $nil (2014: $nil) – (1)
Net items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: (2,087) 40
Other comprehensive loss (1,995) (156)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (10,109) 2,288
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests (3,217) 130
Equity holders (6,892) 2,158
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive  
(loss) /income 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 112 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Property, plant and equipment 7 61,278 70,110
Intangible assets 8 7,516 8,866
Investments in associates and joint ventures 10 11,337 12,274
Other investments 10 1,305 1,472
Advances and loans 11 3,005 4,597
Deferred tax assets 6 1,846 1,667
  86,287 98,986
Current assets
Inventories 12 18,303 24,436
Accounts receivable 13 17 ,001 21,456
Other financial assets 27 3,701 4,036
Prepaid expenses and other assets 447 436
Marketable securities 39 31
Cash and cash equivalents 14 2,707 2,824
  42,198 53,219
Total assets 128,485 152,205
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves – attributable to equity holders
Share capital 15 146 133
Reserves and retained earnings 41,108 48,409
  41,254 48,542
Non-controlling interests 32 89 2,938
Total equity 41,343 51,480
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 32,932 40,688
Deferred income 20 1,452 1,120
Deferred tax liabilities 6 5,777 6,435
Other financial liabilities 27 186 980
Provisions 21 5,923 7 ,555
  46,270 56,778
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 11,117 12,005
Accounts payable 23 24,088 26,881
Deferred income 20 87 153
Provisions 21 474 576
Other financial liabilities 27 4,931 3,956
Income tax payable 175 376
  40,872 43,947
Total equity and liabilities 128,485 152,205
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2015 113 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Operating activities   
(Loss)/income before income taxes  (8,016) 4,253
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 5,835 5,448
Share of income from associates and joint ventures (101) (638)
Decrease in other long-term liabilities (202) (173)
Losses/(gains) on disposals and investments  3 994 (715)
Unrealised mark-to-market movements on other investments 4 262 (134)
Impairments 5 7,120 1,101
Other non-cash items – net
1
 168 365
Interest expense – net 1,394 1,471
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 7,454 10,978
Working capital changes
Decrease in accounts receivable
2
  4,787 1,727
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 5,410 (1,978)
Decrease in accounts payable
3
(3,572) (452)
Proceeds from silver streaming 20 900 –
Total working capital changes 7,525 (703)
Income taxes paid (865) (928)
Interest received 119 49
Interest paid (1,203) (1,260)
Net cash generated by operating activities 13,030 8,136
Investing activities
Decrease/(increase) in long-term advances and loans 188 (686)
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 24 (318) (1,792)
Net cash received from disposal of subsidiaries 24 212 6,482
Purchase of investments 10 (236) (374)
Proceeds from sale of investments 41 64
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (5,372) (7 ,854)
Capital expenditures related to assets held for sale – (961)
Payments for exploration and evaluation 7 (147) (245)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 115 206
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 10 428 1,129
Net cash used by investing activities (5,089) (4,031)
1  Includes certain non-cash items as disclosed in note 4.
2 Includes movements in other financial assets, prepaid expenses and other assets.
3 Includes movements in other financial liabilities, provisions and deferred income.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015 114 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Financing activities
1
Proceeds from issuance of capital market notes
2
19 4,901 5,535
Repayment of capital market notes (4,459) (1,751)
Repurchase of capital market notes (529) –
Repayment of convertible bonds 19 – (2,365)
(Repayment of)/proceeds from other non-current borrowings (5,176) 1,580
Net margin payments in respect of financing related hedging activities (618) 10
Repayment of current borrowings (1,926) (3,782)
Acquisition of additional interest in subsidiaries – (101)
Return of capital/distributions to non-controlling interests (95) (245)
Repurchase of own shares (272) (786)
Proceeds from own shares – 19
Share issuance
2
2,444 –
Distributions paid to equity holders of the parent 17 (2,328) (2,244)
Net cash used by financing activities (8,058) (4,130)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (117) (25)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 2,824 2,849
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 2,707 2,824
1  Presented net of directly attributable issuance costs where applicable.
2 Net of issuance costs relating to capital market notes and shares of $16 million (2014: $22 million) and $64 million (2014: $nil) respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015 115 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
US$ million
(Deficit)/ 
retained 
earnings
Share 
 premium
Other 
reserves 
(note 15)
Own 
shares
Total 
reserves and 
(deficit)/ 
retained 
earnings
Share 
capital
Total equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
(note 32)
Total 
equity
1 January 2014 (2,412) 54,777 (2,418) (767) 49,180 133 49,313 3,368 52,681
Income for the year 2,308 – – – 2,308 – 2,308 136 2,444
Other comprehensive loss (219) – 69 – (150) – (150) (6) (156)
Total comprehensive income 2,089 – 69 –2,158 –2,158 130 2,288
Own share purchases
1
– – – (795) (795) – (795) – (795)
Own share disposal
1
(38) – – 69 31 – 31 – 31
Equity-settled share-based 
expenses
2
50 – – – 50 – 50 – 50
Equity portion of 
convertible bonds 89 – (89) – – – – – –
Change in ownership interest 
in subsidiaries – –29 – 29 –29 (300) (271)
Disposal of business ––––––– (15) (15)
Distributions paid
5
– (2,244) – – (2,244) – (2,244) (245) (2,489)
At 31 December 2014 (222) 52,533 (2,409) (1,493) 48,409 133 48,542 2,938 51,480
1 January 2015 (222) 52,533 (2,409) (1,493) 48,409 133 48,542 2,938 51,480
Loss for the year (4,964) – – – (4,964) – (4,964) (3,150) (8,114)
Other comprehensive loss 66 –(1,994) –(1,928) –(1,928) (67) (1,995)
Total comprehensive income (4,898) – (1,994) – (6,892) – (6,892) (3,217) (10,109)
Shares issued
1
– 2,431 – – 2,431 13 2,444 – 2,444
Own share purchases
1
– – – (281) (281) – (281) – (281)
Own share disposal
1
(45) – – 62 17 – 17 – 17
Equity-settled share-based 
expenses
2
66 – – – 66 – 66 – 66
Change in ownership interest in 
subsidiaries – – (16) – (16) – (16) 35 19
Disposal of business
3
––––––– (257) (257)
Cancellation of put option
4
––––––– 685 685
Distributions paid
5
 – (2,626) – – (2,626) – (2,626) (95) (2,721)
At 31 December 2015 (5,099) 52,338 (4,419) (1,712) 41,108 146 41,254 89 41,343
1 See note 15.
2 See note 18.
3 See note 24.
4 See note 27.
5 See note 17.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes of equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial statements
116 Glencore Annual Report 2015
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Corporate information
Glencore plc (the “Company” , “Parent” , the “Group” or 
“Glencore”), is a leading integrated producer and marketer of 
natural resources, with worldwide activities in the production, 
refinement, processing, storage, transport and marketing of 
metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products. 
Glencore operates on a global scale, marketing and distributing 
physical commodities sourced from third party producers and 
own production to industrial consumers, such as those in the 
automotive, steel, power generation, oil and food processing 
industries. Glencore also provides financing, logistics and other 
services to producers and consumers of commodities. In this 
regard, Glencore seeks to capture value throughout the commodity 
supply chain. Glencore’s long experience as a commodity producer 
and merchant has allowed it to develop and build upon its 
expertise in the commodities which it markets and cultivate long-
term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base across 
diverse industries and in multiple geographic regions.
Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in 
Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland. Its ordinary shares are traded 
on the London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue 
in accordance with a Directors’ resolution on 7 March 2016.
Statement of compliance
The accounting policies adopted in this preliminary announcement 
are based on the Company’s financial statements which are 
prepared in accordance with:
• International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and 
interpretations as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) 
effective as of 31 December 2015; and
• IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) effective as of 
31 December 2015.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as 
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Estimates and assumptions 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, 
independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, 
industry standard modelling techniques. Actual outcomes could 
result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or 
liabilities affected in future periods.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical 
to understanding Glencore’s financial position as they 
require management to make complex and/or subjective 
judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that are 
inherently uncertain:
Key judgements
In the process of applying Glencore’s accounting policies, 
management has made the following judgements based on the 
relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic 
circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying 
agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements 
(see note 34)
Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of 
subsidiaries or joint control of joint arrangements. This requires an 
assessment of the relevant activities (those relating to the operating 
and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: the approval of 
the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, 
remunerating and terminating the key management personnel 
or service providers of the operations) and when the decisions 
in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or 
require unanimous consent.
Judgement is also required in determining the classification of 
a joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation 
through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from 
the arrangement.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially 
impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated 
financial statements – under the full consolidation method, equity 
method or proportionate consolidation method.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure (notes 7 and 29)
The application of Glencore’s accounting policy for exploration and 
evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether 
future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploitation 
or sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage that permits 
a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves/resource.
Credit and performance risk (note 25)
The Group’s global marketing operations expose it to credit 
and performance (the risk that counterparties fail to sell or 
purchase physical commodities on agreed terms) risks; these arise 
particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility 
with limited liquidity and terminal markets and when global 
and/or regional macro-economic conditions are weak.
Continuously, but particularly during such times, judgement is 
required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are 
recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received. 
Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance 
may materially impact both non-current and current assets as 
recognised in the statement of financial position.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
117 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Recognition of deferred tax assets (note 6)
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is 
considered probable that those assets will be recoverable. 
This involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets 
are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether there will be 
sufficient taxable income available to offset the tax assets when they 
do reverse. These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty 
and therefore, to the extent assumptions regarding future 
profitability change, there can be a material increase or decrease in 
the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of income 
in the period in which the change occurs. The recoverability of 
deferred tax assets including the estimates and assumptions 
contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Classification of transactions which contain a financing element 
(notes 20 and 23)
Transactions for the sale or purchase of commodities may contain 
a financing element such as extended payment term agreements. 
Judgement is required to determine the most appropriate 
classification and presentation of these transactions within the 
statements of cash flows and financial position. In determining the 
appropriate classification, management considers the underlying 
economic substance of the transaction and the significance of 
the financing element to the transaction. Typically the economic 
substance of the transaction is determined to be operating in 
nature, i.e. predominantly related to the sale or purchase of 
commodities as the financing element is insignificant and the entire 
cash flow will therefore be presented as operating in the statement 
of cash flow with a corresponding trade receivable or payable in the 
statement of financial position.
Key estimates and assumptions
In the process of applying Glencore’s accounting policies, 
management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning 
the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty. 
The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have 
a significant impact on the financial position and the results of 
operations, are described below. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and 
may materially affect financial results or the financial position 
reported in future periods.
Valuation of derivative instruments (note 27)
Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore 
evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data 
used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 
1, 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. 
Fair values are determined in the following ways: externally 
verified via comparison to quoted market prices in active markets 
(Level 1); by using models with externally verifiable inputs 
(Level 2); or by using alternative procedures such as comparison 
to comparable instruments and/or using models with unobservable 
market inputs requiring Glencore to make market-based 
assumptions (Level 3). Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest 
level of estimation uncertainty.
Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, deferred 
mining costs and plant and equipment (note 7)
Mineral and petroleum rights, deferred mining costs and certain 
plant and equipment are depreciated/amortised using the Units 
of Production basis (“UOP”). The calculation of the UOP rate 
of depreciation/amortisation, and therefore the annual charge 
to operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates. This could 
generally result when there are significant changes in any of the 
factors or assumptions used in estimating mineral or petroleum 
reserves and resources, notably changes in the geology of the 
reserves and resources and assumptions used in determining 
the economic feasibility of the reserves. Such changes in reserves 
and resources could similarly impact the useful lives of assets 
depreciated on a straight-line basis, where those lives are limited 
to the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of 
the underlying reserves and resources. Estimates of proven 
and probable reserves and resources are prepared by experts in 
extraction, geology and reserve determination. Assessments of 
UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and the 
operating and development plan are performed regularly.
Impairments (notes 3, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10)
Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, 
advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully 
recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite 
life intangible assets. If an asset’s recoverable amount is less than 
the asset’s carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in 
the consolidated statement of income. Future cash flow estimates 
which are used to calculate the asset’s fair value are discounted 
using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations 
about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about 
production and sales volumes, commodity prices (considering 
current and historical prices, price trends and related factors), 
reserves and resources, operating, rehabilitation and restoration 
costs and capital expenditures. Estimates are reviewed regularly by 
management. Changes in such estimates and in particular, further 
deterioration in the pricing outlook, could impact the recoverable 
values of these assets, whereby some or all of the carrying amount 
may be impaired or the impairment charge reduced (if pricing 
outlook improves significantly) with the impact recorded in the 
statement of income.
Provisions (note 21)
The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, 
contractual and other exposures or obligations, is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the related liability, including 
any related interest charges, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. The Group assesses 
its liabilities and contingencies based upon the best information 
available, relevant tax laws and other appropriate requirements. 
These provisions may require settlement in future periods and 
as such may be materially impacted by the time value of money. 
The determination of the appropriate risk adjusted discount rate 
to reflect time value of money is a source of estimation uncertainty 
which could impact the carrying value of these provisions at the 
balance sheet date. Financial statements
118 Glencore Annual Report 2015
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs (note 21)
A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and 
decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be 
made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude 
of the possible disturbance, the timing, extent and costs of the 
required closure and rehabilitation activities and of the risk 
adjusted discount rates used to determine the present value of 
the future cash outflows. To the extent that the actual future 
costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded 
and the consolidated statement of income could be impacted. 
The provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained 
therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Fair value measurements (notes 9, 12, 25, 26 and 27)
In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, 
as discussed above, an assessment of the fair value of assets and 
liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most 
notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and 
disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities. 
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on 
the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged 
at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are 
therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon 
actual settlements. Where fair value measurements cannot be 
derived from publicly available information, they are estimated 
using models and other valuation methods. To the extent possible, 
the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally 
verifiable inputs. However, such information is by nature subject 
to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based 
transactions often do not exist.
New and revised standards not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial 
statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which 
are applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yet effective:
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarification of Acceptable Methods 
of Depreciation and Amortisation – effective for year ends beginning on 
or after 1 January 2016
The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment 
prohibits entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method 
for items of property, plant and equipment and the amendments 
to IAS 38 Intangible Assets introduce a rebuttable presumption 
that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortisation of 
intangible assets.
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – effective for year ends beginning on 
or after 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain 
classes of financial assets and liabilities. The most significant 
change is to rationalise from four to two primary categories of 
financial assets.
IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers – effective for year 
ends beginning on or after 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and 
replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS. 
The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply to 
measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
IFRS 16 – Leases– effective for year ends beginning on or after 
1 January 2019
IFRS 16 provides a comprehensive model for identification of lease 
arrangements and their treatment in the financial statements 
of both lessees and lessors. It supersedes IAS 17 Leases and its 
associated interpretative guidance.
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new 
and revised standards may have on the financial statements 
of Glencore.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets, 
liabilities and marketing inventories that are measured at revalued 
amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as 
explained in the accounting policies below. Historical cost is 
generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in 
exchange for goods and services. The principal accounting policies 
adopted are set out below.
The Directors have assessed that they have, at the time of 
approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 
Annual Report and Accounts. Therefore, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial 
statements. Also see page 97. Further information on Glencore’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and 
financial risks are detailed in note 25.
All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, 
unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant 
functional currency of Glencore’s operations.
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to 
variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 
Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore 
has all of the following:
• power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the 
current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee);
• exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with 
the investee; and
• the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
119 Glencore Annual Report 2015
When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an 
investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant 
facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the 
investee including:
• the size of Glencore’s holding of voting rights relative to the size 
and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;
• potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or 
other parties;
• rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
• any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that 
Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the 
relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, 
including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee 
if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes 
to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains 
control over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control 
of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary 
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income 
from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore 
ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-
controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is 
attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having 
a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements 
of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
the Group’s accounting policies. All intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full 
on consolidation.
Changes in Glencore’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result 
in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with 
any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid 
or received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to 
equity holders of Glencore.
When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss 
is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is 
calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair 
value of the consideration received and the fair value of any 
retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the 
assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and 
any non-controlling interests. All amounts previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are 
accounted for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related 
assets or liabilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss 
or transferred to another category of equity as specified/permitted 
by applicable IFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained in 
the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded 
as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting 
under IAS 39, when applicable, or the cost on initial recognition of 
an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Associates and joint ventures (together Associates) in which 
Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are 
accounted for using the equity method. Significant influence is the 
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions 
of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. 
Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% 
and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary. 
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have 
joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing 
of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions 
about relevant strategic and/or key operating decisions require 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the 
Associate’s net income and equity. Glencore’s interest in an 
Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted 
for Glencore’s share of changes in net assets of the Associate, 
less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits 
and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencore’s interest in 
that Associate.
Changes in Glencore’s interests in Associates are accounted for as 
a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount 
by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the 
fair value of the consideration received being recognised directly in 
the consolidated statement of income.
Joint operations
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and 
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, 
Glencore applies the proportionate consolidation method 
and recognises:
• its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly;
• its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly;
• its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from 
the joint operation;
• its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint 
operation; and
• its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and 
expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance 
with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses.
Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits 
and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencore’s interest in that 
joint operation. Financial statements
120 Glencore Annual Report 2015
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Business combinations and goodwill
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for 
using the acquisition method of accounting. The cost of the 
acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the 
sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, 
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the 
equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. 
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
(“identifiable net assets”) are recognised at their fair value at the 
date of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of income as incurred.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencore’s 
previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured 
to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date Glencore attains 
control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of income.
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business 
combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencore’s 
share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as 
purchased goodwill.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from 
the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units 
(“CGU”) that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination. CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are 
tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there 
is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable 
amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount 
of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset 
in the unit. Any impairment loss is recognised directly in profit 
or loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not able to 
be reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of 
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss 
on disposal.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by 
the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, 
Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the 
accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
for additional information obtained during the “measurement 
period” (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) 
about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date 
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at 
that date.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests 
and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s 
net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured 
either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-
by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are 
measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified 
in another IFRS.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of 
interests in Associates and joint operations. Any goodwill arising 
from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the 
investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter. Any excess 
of Glencore’s share of the net fair value of the Associate’s 
identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in 
the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer 
all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold. 
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised 
at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to 
the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to 
Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured. 
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product 
is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is 
typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or 
the customer’s premises.
For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a 
provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price 
is subject to movements in market prices up to the date of 
final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial 
booking. Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised 
based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration 
receivable. The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within 
provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a 
commodity derivative. Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales 
price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair 
value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue. In all cases, fair 
value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the 
right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that 
the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of 
income can be measured reliably. Royalty revenue is recognised 
on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the 
relevant agreement. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, 
by reference to the principal outstanding and the applicable 
effective interest rate.
Foreign currency translation
Glencore’s reporting currency and the functional currency of the 
majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed to 
be the principal currency of the economic environment in which 
it operates.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional 
currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the 
transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at 
year end are converted at year-end rates. The resulting exchange 
differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Translation of financial statements
For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group 
companies whose functional currency is in a currency other 
than the US dollar are translated into US dollars using year-end 
exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated 
using average rates of exchange for the year.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
121 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition 
of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate. 
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of 
shareholders’ equity and have no consolidated statement of income 
impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation 
has occurred.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate 
to the financing of construction or development of qualifying 
assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the 
qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
Retirement benefits
Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with 
local requirements and practices of the respective countries. 
The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded 
by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance 
companies equal the contributions that are required under the 
plans and accounted for as an expense.
Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to 
determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and 
the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service 
cost. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the 
beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated 
statement of income so as to recognise current and past service 
costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect 
of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on 
plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to 
the consolidated statement of income. The retirement benefit 
obligation/asset recognised in the consolidated statement of 
financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in 
Glencore’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this 
calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in 
future contributions to the plans.
Glencore also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to 
certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States. 
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit 
pension plans, however are unfunded.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value 
of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant 
date. Fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions. The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement 
of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis 
over the period the estimated awards are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of 
the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of 
the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. The impact of 
the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense 
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to 
retained earnings.
Cash-settled share-based payments
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially 
recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards 
that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market-
based performance conditions. Subsequently, at each reporting 
period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value 
with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated 
statement of income.
Income taxes
Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes. 
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based 
on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end 
on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax 
payable in respect of previous years. Deferred taxes are recognised 
for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted 
or substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to 
be effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary 
difference. Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only 
recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and 
amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related 
benefit will be realised. To the extent that a deferred tax asset not 
previously recognised but which subsequently fulfils the criteria 
for recognition, an asset is then recognised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate 
to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has 
both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis. The tax effect of 
certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with 
respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability (other 
than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that 
initially impacted accounting or taxable profit) and temporary 
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates 
to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax 
is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions. 
These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights 
that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income 
in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate 
to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement 
of income (whether in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity) or where they arise from the initial accounting for a 
business combination.
Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies/taxes are treated 
as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics 
of an income tax including being imposed and determined 
in accordance with regulations established by the respective 
government’s taxation authority and the amount payable is based 
on taxable income – rather than physical quantities produced 
or as a percentage of revenues – after adjustment for temporary 
differences. For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is 
provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of 
taxation. Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do 
not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and 
included in cost of goods sold. Financial statements
122 Glencore Annual Report 2015
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair 
value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, 
including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to 
the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct 
cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated 
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated 
residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset 
concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine 
(“LOM”), field or lease.
Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use. 
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are 
depreciated/amortised on a UOP and/or straight-line basis 
as follows:
Buildings 10 – 45 years
Freehold land not depreciated
Plant and equipment 3 – 30 years/UOP
Mineral and petroleum rights UOP
Deferred mining costs UOP
Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are 
capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on 
the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the 
relevant lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases, 
the expenditures for which are charged against income over the 
accounting periods covered by the lease term.
Mineral and petroleum rights
Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights (together 
Mineral and petroleum rights) which can be reasonably valued, 
are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition. 
Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be 
reasonably determined are not recognised. Exploitable Mineral 
and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the 
commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, 
other mineral resources. Mineral resources are included in 
amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of 
confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in 
the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum 
resources and includes costs such as exploration and production 
licences, researching and analysing historical exploration data, 
exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-
feasibility studies. Exploration and evaluation expenditure for 
each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, 
is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred 
except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from 
future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned 
to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the 
area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached 
a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of 
commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure 
is capitalised. As the intangible component (i.e. licences) represents 
an insignificant and indistinguishable portion of the overall 
expected tangible amount to be incurred and recouped from future 
exploitation, these costs along with other capitalised exploration 
and evaluation expenditure are recorded as a component of 
property, plant and equipment. Purchased exploration and 
evaluation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset 
is not available for use, it is not depreciated. All capitalised 
exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for 
indications of impairment. Where a potential impairment is 
indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest or 
at the CGU level. To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not 
expected to be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement 
of income.
Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific 
exploration area are charged to the consolidated statement of 
income. Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in 
an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the 
term of the permit.
Development expenditure
When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and 
such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, 
capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred 
to construction in progress, a component within the plant and 
equipment asset sub-category. All subsequent development 
expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability 
conditions continue to be satisfied. Proceeds from the sale of 
product extracted during the development phase are netted against 
development expenditure. Upon completion of development and 
commencement of production, capitalised development costs 
are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant 
and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of 
production method (UOP) or straight-line basis.
Deferred mining costs
Mainly comprises certain capitalised costs related to underground 
mining as well as pre-production and in-production stripping 
activities as outlined below. Deferred mining costs are amortised 
using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to which those 
costs relate.
Deferred stripping costs
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine (or pit) 
before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of 
constructing the mine (or pit) and subsequently amortised over the 
life of the mine (or pit) on a UOP basis.
In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable 
component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of 
improved access to ore to be mined in the future (stripping activity 
asset), are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided all 
the following conditions are met:
(a)  it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with 
the stripping activity will be realised;
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
123 Glencore Annual Report 2015
(b)  the component of the ore body for which access has been 
improved can be identified; and
(c)  the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with 
the improved access can be reliably measured.
If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs 
are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they 
are incurred.
The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP 
basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body 
that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity 
and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment losses.
Biological assets
Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling 
costs. Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are 
included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in 
which they arise.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from 
the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted 
using a risk adjusted discount rate to their net present value, are 
provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises. 
The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over 
the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the 
unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is 
created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at 
their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement 
of income as extraction progresses.
Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes 
to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by 
recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a 
corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided 
the reduction in the provision is not greater than the depreciated 
capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised 
cost is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in 
the consolidated statement of income. In the case of closed sites, 
changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the 
consolidated statement of income.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial 
recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at 
cost less any accumulated amortisation (calculated on a straight-
line basis over their useful lives) and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any.
Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised. Instead, the 
related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
income and other comprehensive income in the period in which 
the expenditure is incurred.
Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over their expected useful life. The amortisation 
method and period are reviewed annually and impairment 
testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. Other than goodwill which is not 
depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an 
indefinite life.
The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line 
basis as follows:
Port allocation rights 30 – 40 years
Licences, trademarks and software 3 – 20 years
Royalty arrangements 30 – 40 years
Acquired offtake arrangements 5 – 10 years
Other investments
Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, 
are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably 
determinable in which case they are carried at cost. Changes in fair 
value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless 
they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value 
movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are 
subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income 
when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair 
value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
Impairment
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset 
values which is used as a source of information to assess for any 
indications of impairment. Formal impairment tests are carried out, 
at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill 
and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
A formal impairment test involves determining whether the 
carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its 
fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Such reviews 
are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do 
not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case 
the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of 
income to reflect the asset at the lower amount. Financial statements
124 Glencore Annual Report 2015
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
An impairment loss is reversed in the consolidated statement of 
income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was 
recognised. The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable 
amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation 
or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment 
loss had not been recognised. Goodwill impairments and 
impairments of available for sale equity investments cannot 
be subsequently reversed.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive), as a result of past events, and it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can 
be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using 
the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying 
amount is the present value of those cash flows (when the effect of 
the time value of money is material).
Onerous contracts
An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has 
a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits 
expected to be received from the contract. Present obligations 
arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured 
as provisions.
Unfavourable contracts
An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, 
in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the 
terms of the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase 
services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared 
to current market terms at the time of the business combination. 
Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of 
the economic loss and amortised into income over the term of 
the contract.
Inventories
The vast majority of inventories held by the marketing activities 
(“marketing inventories”) are valued at fair value less costs of 
disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value. Unrealised gains and losses from changes in 
fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Inventories held by the industrial activities (“production 
inventories”) are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out (“FIFO”) 
or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, 
labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs. 
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed 
as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in 
hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less. The carrying amount of these assets 
approximates their fair value.
Financial instruments
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity 
investments or available for sale financial assets depending 
upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. 
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade 
date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction 
costs. Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value (other 
investments, derivatives and marketable securities) or amortised 
cost less impairment (accounts receivable and advances and loans). 
Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised 
at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as 
appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Own shares
The cost of purchases of own shares is deducted from equity. 
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no 
gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
income. Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity. 
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to 
employees are recognised in equity.
Derivatives and hedging activities
Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or 
purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are 
initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period. 
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price 
quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key 
inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for 
the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility 
of the underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge 
accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment 
mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are 
recognised in cost of goods sold.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are 
either (i) a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a 
recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, 
or (ii) a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be 
received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability 
or a highly probable transaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value 
Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the 
hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
125 Glencore Annual Report 2015
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash 
Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve 
in shareholders’ equity. The deferred amount is then released to 
the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during 
which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement 
of income. Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated 
statement of income when it occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders’ 
equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately 
recognised in the consolidated statement of income. However, 
if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is 
immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
A derivative may be embedded in a “host contract”. Such 
combinations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date 
of issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host 
contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative if the 
criteria for separation are met. The host contract is accounted 
for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION
Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three 
core business segments – metals and minerals, energy products 
and agricultural products, with each business segment responsible 
for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial 
investment activities of their respective products and reflecting 
the structure used by Glencore’s management to assess the 
performance of Glencore.
The business segments’ contributions to the Group are 
primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from 
physical marketing activities (net sale and purchase of physical 
commodities), provision of marketing and related value-add 
services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities 
(net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost 
of production and/or cost of sales) and comprise the following 
underlying key commodities:
• Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, 
ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, 
refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of 
the relevant commodities;
• Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and 
metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil 
production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities; and
• Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil 
seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported 
by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and 
port facilities.
Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amount 
represents unallocated Group related expenses (including variable 
pool bonus charges). Statement of financial position amounts 
represent Group related balances.
The financial performance of the segments is principally 
evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA which is 
the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and 
administrative expenses plus share of income from other associates 
and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share 
of underlying Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA of certain associates and 
joint ventures which are accounted for internally by means of 
proportionate consolidation.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as 
those described in note 1 with the exception of certain associates 
and joint ventures. Under IFRS 11, Glencore’s investments in the 
Antamina copper/zinc mine (34% owned) and the Cerrejón coal 
mine (33% owned) are considered to be associates as they are 
not subject to joint control and the Collahuasi copper mine (44% 
owned) is considered to be a joint venture. Associates and joint 
ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencore’s financial 
statements under the equity method. For internal reporting and 
analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments 
under the proportionate consolidation method reflecting Glencore’s 
proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities 
of the investments. The balances as presented for internal reporting 
purposes are reconciled to Glencore’s statutory disclosures as 
outlined in the following tables. Financial statements
126 Glencore Annual Report 2015
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued)
Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i.e. at arm’s 
length commercial terms.
2015  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate  
and other Total
Revenue – Marketing activities
1
41,151 75,206 20,617 – 136,974
Revenue – Industrial activities 24,782 8,406 2,529 4 35,721
Revenue 65,933 83,612 23,146 4 172,695
Marketing activities
Adjusted EBITDA 1,280 826 584 (30) 2,660
Depreciation and amortisation (25) (48) (123) – (196)
Adjusted EBIT 1,255 778 461 (30) 2,464
Industrial activities
Adjusted EBITDA 4,030 2,269 150 (415) 6,034
Depreciation and amortisation
2
(3,882) (2,357) (87) – (6,326)
Adjusted EBIT 148 (88) 63 (415) (292)
Total adjusted EBITDA 5,310 3,095 734 (445) 8,694
Depreciation and amortisation (3,907) (2,405) (210) – (6,522)
Total adjusted EBIT 1,403 690 524 (445) 2,172
Significant items
3
Other expense – net
4
(7 ,998)
Share of associates’ exceptional items
5
(88)
Unrealised intergroup loss elimination adjustments 
and other
6
 445
Interest expense – net
7
(1,391)
(Losses)/gains on disposals and investments
8
(994)
Income tax expense
9
(260)
Loss for the year (8,114)
1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities. Metals and minerals segment: $17,843 million, Energy products 
segment $2,318 million and Agricultural products $1,847 million.
2 Includes an adjustment of $687 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. 
Metals and minerals segment: $501 million and Energy products segment $186 million, see reconciliation table below.
3 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal 
reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results.
4 See note 4.
5 Share of associates’ exceptional items comprise Glencore’s share of exceptional charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Century.
6 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions. For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the 
ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm. Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to 
third parties.
7 Includes an adjustment for net finance costs of $3 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: net finance costs of $9 million and Energy products segment net finance costs of $6 million, see reconciliation table below.
8 See note 3.
9 Includes an adjustment of $162 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: $103 million and Energy products segment $59 million, see reconciliation table below.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
127 Glencore Annual Report 2015
2014  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy 
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate  
and other Total
Revenue – Marketing activities
1
35,025 120,863 22,523 – 178,411
Revenue – Industrial activities 31,025 11,117 3,298 132 45,572
Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983
Marketing activities
Adjusted EBITDA 1,545 565 996 (105) 3,001
Depreciation and amortisation (30) (41) (140) – (211)
Adjusted EBIT 1,515 524 856 (105) 2,790
Industrial activities
Adjusted EBITDA 7 ,077 2,841 213 (368) 9,763
Depreciation and amortisation
2
(3,403) (2,355) (77) (12) (5,847)
Adjusted EBIT 3,674 486 136 (380) 3,916
Total adjusted EBITDA 8,622 3,406 1,209 (473) 12,764
Depreciation and amortisation (3,433) (2,396) (217) (12) (6,058)
Total adjusted EBIT 5,189 1,010 992 (485) 6,706
Significant items
3
Other expense – net
4
(1,073)
Share of associates’ exceptional items
5
(74)
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination 
adjustments and other
6
 (221)
Interest expense – net
7
(1,457)
(Losses)/gains on disposals and investments
8
715
Income tax expense
9
(2,152)
Income for the year 2,444
1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities. Metals and minerals segment: $23,902 million, Energy products 
segment $3,275 million and Agricultural products $2,315 million.
2 Includes an adjustment of $610 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. 
Metals and minerals segment: $430 million and Energy products segment $180 million, see reconciliation table below.
3 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal 
reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results.
4 See note 4.
5 Share of associates’ exceptional items comprise Glencore’s share of exceptional charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Lonmin, relating mainly to various costs 
incurred in connection with the prolonged platinum strikes in South Africa.
6 Comprises the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions of $187 million. For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of 
product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm. Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the 
sales were to third parties. The balance comprises an adjustment of $34 million arising from losses incurred as a result of typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.
7 Includes an adjustment for net finance costs of $14 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: net finance costs of $18 million and Energy products segment net finance costs of $4 million, see reconciliation table below.
8 See note 3.
9 Includes an adjustment of $343 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: $266 million and Energy products segment $77 million, see reconciliation table below. Financial statements
128 Glencore Annual Report 2015
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued)
2015  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy 
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate  
and other Total
Current assets 21,707 12,131 5,720 (106) 39,452
Current liabilities (10,848) (15,913) (2,685) (309) (29,755)
Allocatable current capital employed 10,859 (3,782) 3,035 (415) 9,697
Property, plant and equipment 34,665 23,443 2,836 334 61,278
Intangible assets 3,695 2,915 889 17 7,516
Investments in associates and other investments 8,088 3,926 628 – 12,642
Non-current advances and loans 1,414 1,369 114 108 3,005
Allocatable non-current capital employed 47,862 31,653 4,467 459 84,441
Other assets
1
4,592 4,592
Other liabilities
2
(57 ,387) (57,387)
Total net assets 58,721 27,871 7,502 (52,751) 41,343
Capital expenditure – Marketing activities 81 17 146 – 244
Capital expenditure – Industrial activities
3
4,149 1,303 98 163 5,713
Capital expenditure 4,230 1,320 244 163 5,957
1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
3 Includes an adjustment of $328 million to capital expenditure related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: $292 million and Energy products segment $36 million, see reconciliation table below.
2014  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy 
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate  
and other Total
Current assets 29,620 14,433 6,758 (447) 50,364
Current liabilities (11,334) (17 ,264) (2,870) (474) (31,942)
Allocatable current capital employed 18,286 (2,831) 3,888 (921) 18,422
Property, plant and equipment 38,663 28,039 2,899 509 70,110
Intangible assets 3,728 4,097 902 139 8,866
Investments in associates and other investments 9,660 3,561 525 – 13,746
Non-current advances and loans 1,834 2,518 138 107 4,597
Allocatable non-current capital employed 53,885 38,215 4,464 755 97,319
Other assets
1
4,522 4,522
Other liabilities
2
(68,783) (68,783)
Total net assets 72,171 35,384 8,352 (64,427) 51,480
Capital expenditure – Marketing activities 47 60 162 – 269
Capital expenditure – Industrial activities
3
6,675 2,234 87 262 9,258
Capital expenditure 6,722 2,294 249 262 9,527
1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
3 Includes an adjustment of $467 million to capital expenditure related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: $368 million and Energy products segment $99 million, see reconciliation table below.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
129 Glencore Annual Report 2015
The reconciliation of certain associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBIT to ‘Share of net income from associates and joint ventures’ for 
the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 is as follows:
2015  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy 
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate  
and other Total
Revenue
Revenue 65,933 83,612 23,146 4 172,695
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures 
on a proportionate consolidation basis (1,578) (620) – – (2,198)
Revenue – reported measure 64,355 82,992 23,146 4 170,497
Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBITDA 806 189 – – 995
Depreciation and amortisation (501) (186) – – (687)
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBIT 305 3 – – 308
Net finance costs 9(6) – – 3
Income tax expense (103) (59) – – (162)
Net finance costs and income tax expense (94) (65) – – (159)
Share of income/(loss) from certain associates and 
joint ventures 211 (62) – – 149
Share of (loss)/income from other associates (35) (15) 2 – (48)
Share of income/(loss) from associates and joint ventures
1
176 (77) 2 – 101
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure 4,230 1,320 244 163 5,957
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures 
on a proportionate consolidation basis (292) (36) – – (328)
Capital expenditure – reported measure 3,938 1,284 244 163 5,629
1 Comprises share in earnings of $80 million from industrial activities and $21 million from marketing activities. Financial statements
130 Glencore Annual Report 2015
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued)
2014  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate  
and other Total
Revenue
Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures 
on a proportionate consolidation basis (2,156) (754) – – (2,910)
Revenue – reported measure 63,894 131,226 25,821 132 221,073
Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBITDA 1,292 260 – – 1,552
Depreciation and amortisation (430) (180) – – (610)
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBIT 862 80 – – 942
Net finance costs 18 (4) – – 14
Income tax expense (266) (77) – – (343)
Net finance costs and income tax expense (248) (81) – – (329)
Share of income/(loss) from certain associates and 
joint ventures 614 (1) – – 613
Share of (loss)/income from other associates (36) 3 58 – 25
Share of income from associates and joint ventures
1
578 2 58 – 638
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure 6,722 2,294 249 262 9,527
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures 
on a proportionate consolidation basis (368) (99) – – (467)
Capital expenditure – reported measure 6,354 2,195 249 262 9,060
1 Comprises share in earnings of $571 million from industrial activities and $67 million from marketing activities.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
131 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Adjusted EBIT is revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and 
joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Adjusted EBIT of certain associates and joint ventures. 
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation and amortisation. The reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA to the 
reported measures is as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Reported measures
Revenue 170,497 221,073
Cost of goods sold (166,982) (214,344)
Selling and administrative expenses (1,271) (1,304)
Share of associates and joint ventures 101 638
Dividend income 25 19
2,370 6,082
Adjustments to reported measures
Share of associates exceptional items 88 74
Unrealised intergroup (loss)/profit elimination (445) 221
(357) 295
Net finance and income tax expense impact of presenting certain associates 
and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 159 329
Adjusted EBIT 2,172 6,706
Depreciation and amortisation 5,835 5,448
Depreciation impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures 
on a proportionate consolidation basis 687 610
Adjusted EBITDA 8,694 12,764
Geographical information
US$ million 2015 2014
Revenue from third parties
1
The Americas 32,985 47 ,274
Europe 54,857 70,595
Asia 64,298 86,619
Africa 6,286 8,206
Oceania 12,071 8,379
170,497 221,073
Non-current assets
2
The Americas 22,663 23,471
Europe 8,447 9,316
Asia 5,416 5,922
Africa 19,841 23,642
Oceania 23,764 28,899
80,131 91,250
1 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty, however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterpart’s ultimate 
parent and/or final destination of product.
2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets. Financial statements
132 Glencore Annual Report 2015
3. (LOSSES)/GAINS ON DISPOSALS AND INVESTMENTS
US$ million 2015 2014
Loss on cessation of control of Optimum (1,034) –
Loss on distribution of interest in Lonmin (256) –
Gain on sale of other operations 296 715
Total (994) 715
Optimum
In August 2015, the directors of Optimum Coal resolved to commence business rescue proceedings and place the company under the 
control and supervision of the business rescue practitioners, resulting in the Group ceasing to have control over Optimum. In December, 
the business rescue practitioners reached agreement to sell the business, which is expected to close by H1 2016. Due to cessation of control 
of Optimum, the net assets were deconsolidated, with the fair value of such determined to be $nil, being the estimated amount to be 
received following the sale. As a result, a loss of $1,034 million was recognised, which includes $311 million of foreign currency translation 
losses previously recognised in equity and $152 million of related impairments (see note 24).
Lonmin
On 9 June 2015, following approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, Glencore completed the in specie distribution of its 
23.9% stake in Lonmin plc. Based on the closing Lonmin share price (a Level 1 valuation technique) at the time of distribution, its fair value 
was determined to be $298 million and as a result, a $256 million loss on disposal of the investment was recognised (see notes 10 and 17).
Other
Gain on sale of other operations arises primarily from the disposals of the Tampakan and Falcondo operations in August 2015, which 
resulted in a net gain of $192 million and $87 million respectively (see note 24). In 2014, the gain on sale of other operations comprised 
the gain of $715 million from the Las Bambas sale transaction. Tax of $531 million was paid upon completion, resulting in a net gain of 
$184 million.
4. OTHER EXPENSE – NET
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Impairments 5 (7 ,120) (1,101)
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading – net (262) 134
Net foreign exchange losses (173) (76)
Loss on metal leak (235) –
Legal settlement (89) –
Acquisition related expenses – (10)
Gain/(loss) on bond buy-backs 35 (95)
Other expense – net
1
(154) 75
Total (7,998) (1,073)
1 ‘Other expense – net’ for the year ended 31 December 2015 mainly comprises restructuring and closure costs of $142 million. ‘Other expense – net’ for the year ended 31 December 
2014 comprises a $75 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments held for trading, other expense – net includes 
other significant items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise 
to them are reported separately from operating segment results. Other expense – net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges 
and restructuring and closure costs.
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading – net
Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments classified as held for trading and carried at fair value, with Glencore’s interest 
in Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. and Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps accounting for the majority of the 
movement (see note 10).
Loss from metal leak
In December 2014, a metal leak in Line 1 of the metallurgical plant at Koniambo was detected and the related production suspended. 
Following an extensive investigation during H1 2015, it was determined that the furnace would need to be rebuilt/repaired at a cost of 
approximately $60 million and incremental net operating costs of an additional $175 million were incurred in relation to this incident. 
A claim for reimbursement of costs has been made under available insurance policies, whereby any associated recoveries will be 
recognised as the claim progresses.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
133 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Legal settlement
In April 2015, OMV Petrom was awarded $89 million related to a dispute over oil deliveries in the early 1990s. Glencore has appealed 
the ruling.
Acquisition related expenses
2014 acquisition related expenses were incurred in connection with prior year acquisitions (see note 24).
Gain/(loss) on bond buy-backs
In 2015, Glencore acquired $564 million of outstanding bonds, at a discount to their carrying values, realising a gain of $35 million 
(see note 19).
In 2014, Glencore tendered for and cancelled 25% of its outstanding convertible bonds and Canadian dollar bonds originally issued by 
the Viterra Group (acquired by Glencore in 2012), booking the ’premium’ over book carrying value as an expense of $70 million and 
$25 million respectively.
5. IMPAIRMENTS
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 /8 (6,028) (886)
Investments 10 (209) (135)
Advances and loans – non current 11 (455) –
Trade advances and deposits 13 (359) –
Non-current inventory and other
1
(69) (80)
Total impairments
2
(7,120) (1,101)
1 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
2 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencore’s operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $5,135 million (2014: $791 million), Energy products 
$1,969 million (2014: $247 million) and Agricultural products $16 million (2014: $63 million).
As part of a regular portfolio review, Glencore carries out an assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment or whether 
a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs of 
disposal (“FVLCD”), determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and three year 
business plans, which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations. The valuation models use the 
most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market 
forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from  
6% – 12% (2014: 5.5% – 13%). The valuations remain sensitive to price and further deterioration/improvements in the pricing outlook may 
result in additional impairments/reversals. The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques for both years.
As a result of the regular impairment assessment, the following significant impairment charges resulted:
2015
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
• Following the sharp decline in oil prices in 2015, significant amendments were made to Chad’s work programme, with the objective 
of preserving value for the long term, while reducing cash outlays in the near term. This included changes to the fields’ capex and 
production profiles and significantly reducing the number of drilling rigs in operation. As a result, the carrying value of these fields/
blocks (Energy products segment) was impaired by $1,031 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $2,012 million. The valuation 
remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment. The short- to long-term 
oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $40 – $80 per barrel.
• Upon further review and evaluation of the exploration activities on the Tilapia licence in Cameroon (Energy product segment) it was 
determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate/develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying 
value of $27 million was impaired.
• As a result of the current subdued coking coal market and resulting weak shorter-term price outlook, the Oaky Creek coking coal 
operations (Energy products segment) were determined to be impaired by $240 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of 
$959 million, given the relatively short life of one of the relevant mines. The valuation remains sensitive to coking coal prices and further 
deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment. The short- to long-term coking coal price assumptions used in 
the valuation were between $81 – $135 per metric tonne.
• In Q4 2015, it was determined, for the foreseeable future, to defer the Blakefield North coal project and place the Ravensworth 
underground coal operations (Energy products segment) on care and maintenance. As a result, the full carrying value of these projects 
($82 million) was impaired. Financial statements
134 Glencore Annual Report 2015
5. IMPAIRMENTS (continued)
• Due to continued subdued current and long-term nickel prices and the ongoing operational and technical challenges at the Koniambo 
processing plant, it was determined, post significant line one furnace redesign/repair work, to operate only one processing line (of two) 
for an extended period of time until it proves itself to be technically robust. As a result of this updated plan and reflecting the lower 
nickel price environment, Koniambo (Metal and minerals segment) was written down to its recoverable value of $917 million, resulting 
in a $3,989 million impairment. The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in 
additional impairment. The short- to long-term nickel prices used in the valuation were between $12,500 – $16,000 per metric tonne.
• Sherwin Alumina (Metal and minerals segment) is an alumina production facility located in Corpus Christi, USA. Adverse market 
conditions resulted in a decrease in its valuation to an estimated recoverable value of $nil and, as a result, an impairment of $128 million 
was recognised. Since January 2016, Sherwin has been under United States Chapter 11 proceedings.
• Kabanga (Metal and minerals segment) is an undeveloped nickel deposit in Tanzania, in which Glencore has a 50% interest. Over the 
past year, a sales process was undertaken to find a potential buyer. No acceptable bids were received and as a result the project was 
written down to $nil, reflective of the lower nickel price environment noted above, resulting in an impairment of $115 million.
• Following a strategic review of the Komarovskoe (within Kazzinc) gold mining deposit (Metal and minerals segment) it was determined 
to cease further development and, as a result, the full carrying value of $70 million was impaired.
• Following the placing of Eland Platinum (Metal and minerals segment) on care and maintenance in October 2015 and a further 
deterioration in platinum prices, it was determined that its recoverable value was $nil and, as a result, an impairment of $77 million 
was recognised.
• The London Metal Exchange (“LME”) proposed changes to its warehousing regulations in a further attempt to reduce metal queues via 
increasing load-out rates and capping longer-term rental income streams. These amendments are anticipated to be enacted in H1 2016. 
As a result, the goodwill of $169 million relating to the Pacorini metals warehousing business (Metals and minerals segment) was 
impaired by $119 million to a recoverable value of $50 million (see notes 8 and 9).
• The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges (none of which were individually material) arose due 
to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $85 million and $65 million being recognised in our 
Metals and minerals and Energy products segments respectively.
Investments
Based on lower mid- to long-term aluminium price assumptions, it was determined that the recoverable value of our investment in 
Century Aluminum Company was $592 million with a resulting impairment of $162 million. The recoverable amount was determined 
using similar valuation techniques and inputs described above. The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in the 
pricing outlook may result in additional impairment. The short- to long-term aluminium prices used in the valuation were between  
$1,550 – $1,790 per metric tonne.
2014
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
• Following the steep decline in iron ore prices and the decision to suspend development at our Mauritanian and Congo iron ore 
operations (Metals and minerals segment), their carrying values were impaired by $431 million, to their estimated recoverable value of 
$50 million.
• Upon further review and evaluation of our exploration activities at the Matanda Oil field in Cameroon (Energy product segment), it was 
determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate/develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying 
value of $212 million was impaired.
• The continued challenging platinum market conditions resulted in the carrying value of our South African platinum operations (Metals 
and minerals segment) being written down to their estimated recoverable value, resulting in an impairment charge of $146 million 
being recognised.
• The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges (none of which were individually material) arose due to 
changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $53 million, $26 million and $18 million being recognised 
in our Agricultural products, Energy products and Metals and minerals segments respectively.
Investments
In 2014, our investment in the El Aouj Joint Venture, Mauritania was impaired by $58 million, in relation to iron ore prices and the 
associated development activity. In addition, an impairment charge of $77 million was recognised related to a copper minority investment, 
Mineracao Caraiba S.A., in Brazil, due to operational challenges. Post these charges, the estimated recoverable values of these investments 
amounted to $51 million and $28 million respectively. The recoverable amounts of the investments were determined using similar 
valuation techniques and inputs as described above.
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
135 Glencore Annual Report 2015
6. INCOME TAXES
Income taxes consist of the following:
US$ million 2015 2014
Current income tax expense (443) (1,447)
Deferred income tax credit/(expense) 345 (362)
Total tax expense (98) (1,809)
The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons:
US$ million 2015 2014
(Loss)/income before income taxes and attribution (8,016) 4,253
Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures (101) (638)
Parent Company’s and subsidiaries’ (loss)/income before income tax and attribution (8,117) 3,615
Income tax (expense)/credit calculated at the Swiss income tax rate 1,218 (542)
Tax effects of:
Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate (154) (971)
Tax exempt income 341 150
Items not tax deductible (1,042) (488)
Foreign exchange fluctuations (307) (851)
Changes in tax rates 44 (20)
Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences
1
(199) 915
Other 1 (2)
Income tax expense (98) (1,809)
1 2014 includes $636 million of available capital deductions not previously recognised.
Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are attributable to the items detailed in the table below:
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Deferred tax assets
1
Tax losses carried forward 1,680 1,417
Other 166 250
Total 1,846 1,667
Deferred tax liabilities
1
Depreciation and amortisation (5,483) (5,894)
Mark-to-market valuations (238) (87)
Other (56) (454)
Total (5,777) (6,435)
Total deferred tax – net (3,931) (4,768)
Reconciliation of deferred tax – net
1 January (4,768) (4,593)
Recognised in income for the year 345 (362)
Recognised in other comprehensive income (77) 86
Business combination 24 17 (52)
Disposal and loss of control of subsidiaries 24 205 –
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 349 156
Other (2) (3)
31 December (3,931) (4,768)
1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities 
arising in other tax jurisdictions. Financial statements
136 Glencore Annual Report 2015
6. INCOME TAXES (continued)
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable. 
As at 31 December 2015, $3,736 million (2014: $3,355 million) of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been 
brought to account, of which $1,680 million (2014: $1,417 million) are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being 
offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity. $1,149 million (2014: $528 million) of net deferred tax assets arise 
in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in either 2015 or 2014. In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will 
be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including 
approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results. These forecasts are consistent 
with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes. Following this evaluation, it was 
determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably 
possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the 
recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised.
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in 
the consolidated financial statements, are detailed below and will expire as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
1 year 153 204
2 years 69 49
3 years 534 38
Thereafter
1
1,717 2,543
Unlimited 1,444 1,022
Total 3,917 3,856
1 2015 excludes gross tax losses of $14.5 billion recognised in the standalone entity accounts of Glencore plc.
As at 31 December 2015, unremitted earnings of $41,285 million (2014: $63,245 million) have been retained by subsidiaries and associates 
for reinvestment. No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
US$ million Notes
Freehold land  
and buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Mineral and 
petroleum rights
Exploration and 
evaluation
Deferred 
mining costs Total
Gross carrying amount:
1 January 2015 5,568 52,840 23,416 1,285 2,330 85,439
Restatement
1
– – (911) 911 – –
1 January 2015 (Restated) 5,568 52,840 22,505 2,196 2,330 85,439
Business combination 24 85 201 – – – 286
Disposals and cessation of 
control of subsidiaries 24 (125) (597) (541) – – (1,263)
Additions 121 4,534 428 147 355 5,585
Disposals (34) (476) (14) – (4) (528)
Effect of foreign currency 
exchange movements (131) (1,300) (843) – – (2,274)
Other movements (158) 835 (956) (6) 319 34
31 December 2015 5,326 56,037 20,579 2,337 3,000 87,279
Accumulated depreciation 
and impairment:
1 January 2015 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329
Disposals and cessation of 
control of subsidiaries 24 (22) (166) (89) – – (277)
Depreciation 251 4,168 1,028 – 259 5,706
Disposals (6) (416) (5) – – (427)
Impairments 5 18 5,147 641 74 – 5,880
Effect of foreign currency 
exchange movements (16) (227) (102) – – (345)
Other movements (5) 156 (36) 29 (9) 135
31 December 2015 995 19,067 4,324 784 831 26,001
Net book value 31 December 2015 4,331 36,970 16,255 1,553 2,169 61,278
1  Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Caracal (see note 24).
Notes to the financial statements Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
137 Glencore Annual Report 2015
US$ million Notes
Freehold land 
and buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Mineral and 
petroleum rights
Exploration and 
evaluation
Deferred 
mining costs Total
Gross carrying amount:
1 January 2014 5,301 47 ,782 21,392 823 1,417 76,715
Business combination 24 37 302 723 1,115 – 2,177
Disposal of subsidiaries 24 (1) (28) – (74) – (103)
Additions 138 6,847 354 245 487 8,071
Disposals (28) (348) (14) (60) (3) (453)
Effect of foreign currency 
exchange movements (83) (611) (329) – – (1,023)
Other movements 204 (1,104) 379 147 429 55
31 December 2014 5,568 52,840 22,505 2,196 2,330 85,439
Accumulated depreciation 
and impairment:
1 January 2014 542 6,835 1,866 130 109 9,482
Depreciation 245 3,699 1,144 – 224 5,312
Disposal of subsidiaries 24 – (14) – – – (14)
Disposals (9) (231) – (58) (1) (299)
Impairments 52025739555– 871
Effect of foreign currency 
exchange movements (8) (83) (26) – – (117)
Other movements (15) (58) (136) 54 249 94
31 December 2014 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329
Net book value 31 December 2014 4,793 42,435 19,618 1,515 1,749 70,110
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $5,011 million (2014: $9,862 million) and a net book value of 
$596 million (2014: $536 million) of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements. Mineral and petroleum rights include biological 
assets of $71 million (2014: $98 million). Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $5,683 million (2014: $5,287 million) and 
in selling and administrative expenses $23 million (2014: $25 million).
During 2015, $163 million (2014: $348 million) of interest was capitalised, $163 million (2014: $263 million) within property, plant and 
equipment and $nil within assets held for sale (2014: $85 million). With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to 
determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 2.9% (2014: 3.3%). Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
138 Glencore Annual Report 2015
8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
US$ million Goodwill
Port allocation 
rights 
Licences, 
trademarks and 
software
Royalty and 
acquired offtake 
arrangements Total
Cost:
1 January 2015 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341
Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries
1
–(670) – (116) (786)
Additions –– 26 18 44
Disposals –– (2) (73) (75)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements –(479) (10) (9) (498)
Other movements –32 15 13 60
31 December 2015 14,122 1,252 394 318 16,086
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:
1 January 2015 8,124 94 111 146 8,475
Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries
1
–(46) – (28) (74)
Amortisation expense
2
–42 29 58 129
Impairment
3
119 – 29 – 148
Disposals –– (2) (70) (72)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements –(23) (7) (5) (35)
Other movements –– (4) 3 (1)
31 December 2015 8,243 67 156 104 8,570
Net carrying amount 31 December 2015 5,879 1,185 238 214 7,516
1 See note 24.
2 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
3 See note 5.
US$ million Goodwill
Port allocation 
rights 
Licences, 
trademarks  and 
software
Royalty and 
acquired offtake 
arrangements Total
Cost:
1 January 2014 14,122 2,604 326 438 17,490
Business combination
1
–– 1 12 13
Additions – – 17 11 28
Disposals – – (26) (2) (28)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements – (235) (5) (3) (243)
Other movements – – 52 29 81
31 December 2014 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:
1 January 2014 8,124 57 69 82 8,332
Amortisation expense
2
–44 35 57 136
Impairment
3
–– 15 – 15
Disposals – – (21) (2) (23)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements – (7) (1) – (8)
Other movements – – 14 9 23
31 December 2014 8,124 94 111 146 8,475
Net carrying amount 31 December 2014 5,998 2,275 254 339 8,866
1 See note 24.
2 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
3 See note 5. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
139 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs), or groups of CGUs as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Grain marketing business 829 829
Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326
Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674
Metals warehousing business 50 169
Total 5,879 5,998
Grain marketing business
Goodwill of $829 million (2014: $829 million) was recognised in previous business combinations attributable to synergies associated with 
the grain marketing division CGU.
Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses
Goodwill of $3,326 million and $1,674 million was recognised in connection with previous business combinations and was allocated to the 
metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing CGUs respectively, based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective 
marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
Metals warehousing business
As a result of the proposed changes to the LME warehousing regulations, the goodwill balance of $169 million was impaired to $50 million 
(see note 5).
Port allocation rights
Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal 
Terminal in South Africa, recognised as part of previous business combinations. The rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software
Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised 
over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 – 15 years.
Royalty and acquired offtake arrangements
The fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised as part of a previous business 
combination. This amount is amortised on a unit of production basis through to 2027 , the expected mine life.
Acquired offtake arrangements represent contractual entitlements acquired from third parties to provide marketing services and receive 
certain products produced from a mining or processing operation over a finite period of time. These rights are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the contractual term which currently ranges between 10 – 15 years. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
140 Glencore Annual Report 2015
9. GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management monitor and manage the goodwill as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Grain marketing business 829 829
Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326
Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674
Metals warehousing business (refer to note 5) 50 169
Total 5,879 5,998
In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal (“FVLCD”) and its value in use (“VIU”). If the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss 
for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed 
in subsequent periods.
Given the nature of each CGU’s activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential 
purchasers or similar transactions are taking place. Consequently,
• the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD (compared against a VIU cash flow 
projection) which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2016 approved financial budget which includes factors 
such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience. The price to 
earnings multiple of 11.0 times (2014: 11.5 times) is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses; and
• Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall 
below the carrying value of the CGU. The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs uses Level 3 valuation techniques 
in both years.
10. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS
Investments in associates and joint ventures
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
1 January 12,274 12,156
Additions 236 372
Disposals (612) (38)
Share of income from associates and joint ventures 101 638
Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures (26) (23)
Dividends received (428) (1,129)
Impairments 5 (209) (135)
Reclassification 46 396
Other movements (45) 37
31 December 11,337 12,274
Of which:
Investments in associates 8,166 9,066
Investments in joint ventures 3,171 3,208
As at 31 December 2015, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $681 million 
(2014: $1,487 million), using published price quotations (a Level 1 fair value measurement) was $255 million (2014: $1,394 million). 
The 2015 balance mainly comprises Century Aluminum (“Century”). The 31 December 2015 carrying value of Century is $592 million 
(2014: $792 million), following an impairment charge of $162 million recognised in H2 2015 (see note 5). The 2014 balance comprised 
primarily Century and Lonmin plc, the latter being disposed by way of an in specie distribution in June 2015 (see note 3).
Additions
In June 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 50% stake in the Barcarena grain terminal in northern Brazil for $115 million. 
With this acquisition, Glencore now owns two key ports in the Northern corridor of Brazil which will give access to fast growing 
origination areas like Mato Grosso and Matopiba, enabling the Group to increase its marketing of corn and soya beans. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
141 Glencore Annual Report 2015
In May 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of an effective 25.05% economic interest in the Clermont thermal coal mine in Australia 
for $250 million. The acquisition was effected through a jointly controlled entity owned 50:50 by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation. 
Based on the contractual arrangement between Glencore and Sumitomo, the joint investment constitutes a joint arrangement subject to 
joint control by virtue of the shareholders’ agreement as defined under IFRS 11 as unanimous consent is required for all key decisions 
regarding the relevant activities of the joint investment. As the investment has been structured through a separate legal entity with both 
Glencore’s and Sumitomo’s risks equating to their net investment in the entity, the investment is deemed to be a joint venture and therefore 
accounted for using the equity method required by IFRS 11.
Disposals
Mainly relates to the in specie distribution of the stake in Lonmin plc (see notes 3 and 17).
Details of material associates and joint ventures
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and 
joint venture’s relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total material 
associates Collahuasi
Total material 
joint ventures
Total material 
associates and 
joint ventures
Non-current assets 2,744 4,279 7,023 4,609 4,609 11,632
Current assets 595 951 1,546 1,144 1,144 2,690
Non-current liabilities (859) (948) (1,807) (986) (986) (2,793)
Current liabilities (202) (286) (488) (273) (273) (761)
The above assets and liabilities include 
the following:
Cash and cash equivalents 150 133 283 166 166 449
Current financial liabilities
1
(5) (61) (66) (3) (3) (69)
Non-current financial liabilities
1
–(167) (167) (75) (75) (242)
Net assets 31 December 2015 2,278 3,996 6,274 4,494 4,494 10,768
Glencore’s ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0%
Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,431 2,073 3,504 1,194 1,194 4,698
Carrying value 2,190 3,422 5,612 3,171 3,171 8,783
1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and joint 
venture’s relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2015, is set out below.
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total of material 
associates Collahuasi
Total of material 
joint ventures
Total of material 
associates and 
joint ventures
2015
Revenue 1,859 2,080 3,939 1,991 1,991 5,930
(Loss)/income for the year (187) 411 224 166 166 390
Other comprehensive income –– – (9) (9) (9)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (187) 411 224 157 157 381
Glencore’s share of dividends paid 53 206 259 110 110 369
The above profit for the year includes the following:
Depreciation and amortisation (557) (721) (1,278) (586) (586) (1,864)
Interest income
1
 –2 2 36 36 38
Interest expense
2
 (18) (9) (27) (10) (10) (37)
Income tax expense (178) (233) (411) (54) (54) (465)
1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $37 million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $7 million. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
142 Glencore Annual Report 2015
10. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS (continued)
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total material 
associates Collahuasi
Total material 
joint ventures
Total material 
associates and 
joint ventures
Non-current assets 2,838 4,181 7,019 4,918 4,918 11,937
Current assets 771 952 1,723 1,073 1,073 2,796
Non-current liabilities (959) (634) (1,593) (1,006) (1,006) (2,599)
Current liabilities (217) (443) (660) (451) (451) (1,111)
The above assets and liabilities include 
the following:
Cash and cash equivalents 238 228 466 124 124 590
Current financial liabilities
1
(9) (270) (279) (2) (2) (281)
Non-current financial liabilities
1
(9) – (9) (81) (81) (90)
Net assets 31 December 2014 2,433 4,056 6,489 4,534 4,534 11,023
Glencore’s ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0%
Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,494 2,121 3,615 1,213 1,213 4,828
Carrying value 2,305 3,490 5,795 3,208 3,208 9,003
1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and joint 
venture’s relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2014, is set out below.
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total of material 
associates Collahuasi
Total of material 
joint ventures
Total of material 
associates and 
joint ventures
2014
Revenue 2,263 2,504 4,767 2,980 2,980 7,747
(Loss)/income for the year (4) 1,319 1,315 385 385 1,700
Other comprehensive income – – – (8) (8) (8)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (4) 1,319 1,315 377 377 1,692
Glencore’s share of dividends paid 239 343 582 440 440 1,022
The above profit for the year includes the following:
Depreciation and amortisation (541) (565) (1,106) (543) (543) (1,649)
Interest income – 1 1 1 12
Interest expense (17) (2) (19) (8) (8) (27)
Income tax (expense)/credit (232) 114 (118) (691) (691) (809)
Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material:
US$ million 2015 2014
The Group’s share of (loss)/income (48) 26
The Group’s share of other comprehensive loss (22) (23)
The Group’s share of total comprehensive (loss)/income (70) 3
Aggregate carrying value of the Group’s interests 2,554 3,271
Glencore’s share of total comprehensive income did not include joint ventures other than the material joint venture discussed above.
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint ventures as at 31 December 2015 was $337 million (2014: $354 million). Glencore’s 
share of joint ventures’ capital commitments amounts to $176 million (2014: $310 million). Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
143 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Other investments
US$ million 2015 2014
Available for sale
United Company Rusal plc 407 895
OAO NK Russneft 685 –
Fair value through profit and loss
Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. 95 149
Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 40 223
Other 78 205
213 577
Total 1,305 1,472
Russneft
In November 2015, Glencore and OAO NK Russneft (“Russneft”) effected a debt to equity conversion which resulted in Glencore 
exchanging its loan balance and investment in operating subsidiaries carried at $nil for a 46% interest in Russneft (see note 11). 
Although Glencore holds more than a 20% interest in Russneft, based on historical interactions, it was concluded that Glencore is unable to 
exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft. As a result, the investment is accounted for as 
an ‘ Available for sale’ investment carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income.
11. ADVANCES AND LOANS
US$ million 2015 2014
Loans to associates
1
436 548
Rehabilitation trust fund 152 327
Other non-current receivables and loans 2,417 3,722
Total 3,005 4,597
1 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following:
US$ million 2015 2014
Counterparty
Russneft loans – 984
Secured marketing related financing arrangements
1
1,004 1,456
Société Nationale d’Électricité (SNEL) power advances 266 232
Chad State National Oil Company 544 426
Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo 165 –
Other 438 624
Total 2,417 3,722
1 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and/or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty. The weighted average 
interest rate of the advances and loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period. In December 2015, an impairment of $155 million was recognised reflecting 
non-performance of contractual terms and rescheduling of the timing in product supply and a recoverable value provision in respect of other advances and loans (see note 5).
Russneft loans
In November 2015, Glencore and Russneft effected a debt to equity conversion which resulted in Glencore exchanging its loan balance of 
$984 million and investments in operating subsidiaries carried at $nil for a 46% interest in Russneft. The fair value of the equity received 
was determined to be $685 million, resulting in a $300 million impairment recognised upon settlement of the loan (see note 5). Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
144 Glencore Annual Report 2015
11. ADVANCES AND LOANS (continued)
SNEL power advances
In early 2012, a joint agreement with Société Nationale d’Électricité (“SNEL”), the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s (“DRC”) national 
electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencore’s operations will contribute $306 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment 
programme, including transmission and distribution systems. This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 
450 megawatts by the end of 2017. Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2017. The loans are 
being repaid via discounts on electricity purchases, which will accelerate upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Chad State National Oil Company
Glencore has provided a net $544 million (2014: $512 million) to the Chad State National Oil Company (“SHT”) to be repaid through future 
oil deliveries over seven years. As at 31 December 2015, the advance is net of $905 million (2014: $1,023 million) provided by a syndicate of 
banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment. Of the 
net amount advanced, $544 million (2014: $426 million) is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables 
and loans and $nil (2014: $86 million) is due within 12 months, such amounts included within Accounts receivable.
Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo (“SNPC”)
In 2015, Glencore advanced a net $218 million to SNPC to be repaid through future oil deliveries over five years. The advance is net of 
$522 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due 
from SNPC under the prepayment. Of the net amount advanced, $165 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other 
long-term receivables and loans and $53 million is due within 12 months and as such included within Accounts receivable.
12. INVENTORIES
Inventories of $18,303 million (2014: $24,436 million) comprise $10,928 million (2014: $16,297 million) of inventories carried at fair value less 
costs of disposal and $7 ,375 million (2014: $8,139 million) valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement (see note 27) using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded 
reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials. There are no significant unobservable 
inputs in the fair value measurement of such inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its inventories. In each case, the inventory has not 
been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership. The proceeds received are recognised as current 
borrowings (see note 19). As at 31 December 2015, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $1,649million (2014: 
$1,707 million). The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $1,607 million (2014: $1,558 million).
13. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
US$ million 2015 2014
Trade receivables
1
10,175 14,466
Trade advances and deposits
1,2,3
4,206 4,596
Associated companies
1
414 359
Other receivables 2,206 2,035
Total 17,001 21,456
1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
2 Includes advances net of $180 million provided by banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future delivery of contractual production over the 
next 12 months.
3 In December 2015, impairments of $359 million were recognised reflecting non-performance of contractual terms and a recoverable value provision in respect of trade advances and 
deposits (see note 5).
The average credit period on sales of goods is 27 days (2014: 27 days).
As at 31 December 2015, 6% (2014: 8%) of receivables were between 1 to  60 days overdue, and 5% (2014: 6%) were greater than 60 days 
overdue. Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant 
change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary 
payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
145 Glencore Annual Report 2015
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below:
US$ million 2015 2014
1 January 293 252
Released during the year (62) (62)
Charged during the year 80 168
Utilised during the year (42) (65)
31 December 269 293
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables. The receivables have not been 
derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership. The proceeds received are recognised as current 
borrowings (see note 19). As at 31 December 2015, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $2,205 million (2014: $2,631 million) 
and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $1,937 million (2014: $2,173 million).
14. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
US$ million 2015 2014
Bank and cash on hand 2,059 2,093
Deposits and treasury bills 648 731
Total 2,707 2,824
As at 31 December 2015, $22 million (2014: $17 million) was restricted.
15. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Number of 
shares 
(thousand)
Share capital 
(US$ million)
Share premium 
(US$ million)
Authorised:
31 December 2015 and 2014 ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 – –
Issued and fully paid up:
1 January 2014 13,278,405 133 54,777
Distributions paid (see note 17) – – (2,244)
31 December 2014 – ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 52,533
1 January 2015 13,278,405 133 52,533
Share issuance 1,307 ,795 13 2,431
Distributions paid (see note 17) –– (2,626)
31 December 2015 – ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 52,338
In September 2015, a total of 1,307 ,794,600 new ordinary shares in Glencore were placed at a price of 125 pence per share, raising gross 
proceeds of approximately $2.5 billion. The new shares issued represented approximately 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital prior to the placing.
Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total
Number  
of shares 
(thousand)
Share  
premium  
(US$ million)
Number  
of shares 
(thousand)
Share  
premium 
 (US$ million)
Number  
of shares 
(thousand) 
Share 
premium  
(US$ million)
Own shares:
1 January 2014 – – 156,790 (767) 156,790 (767)
Own shares purchased during the year 143,278 (758) 7 ,000 (37) 150,278 (795)
Own shares disposed during the year – – (13,328) 69 (13,328) 69
31 December 2014 143,278 (758) 150,462 (735) 293,740 (1,493)
1 January 2015 143,278 (758) 150,462 (735) 293,740 (1,493)
Own shares purchased during the year 58,050 (240) 28,843 (41) 86,893 (281)
Own shares transferred to satisfy employee 
share awards (9,869) 50 9,869 (50) ––
Own shares disposed during the year –– (14,770) 62 (14,770) 62
31 December 2015 191,459 (948) 174,404 (764) 365,863 (1,712) Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
146 Glencore Annual Report 2015
15. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES (continued)
Own shares
Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Company’s previous share buy-back programme and shares of Glencore plc held by Orbis 
Trust (“the Trust”) to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Group’s employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of previous 
business combinations.
The Trust also coordinates the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencore’s 
share plans. The shares are acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company. The Trustee is permitted to sell 
the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time. The Trust has waived the right to receive 
distributions from the shares that it holds. Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they 
are incurred.
As at 31 December 2015, 365,863,517 shares (2014: 293,740,462 shares), equivalent to 2.5% (2014: 2.2%) of the issued share capital were held at 
a cost of $1,712 million (2014: $1,493 million) and market value of $488 million (2014: $1,368 million).
Other reserves
US$ million
Translation 
adjustment
Equity portion  
of Convertible 
bonds
Cash flow hedge 
reserve
Net unrealised 
gain/(loss)
Net ownership 
changes in 
subsidiaries Other reserves Total
1 January 2014 (1,317) 89 (356) – (844) 10 (2,418)
Exchange loss on translation 
of foreign operations (846) – –––– (846)
Gain on cash flow hedges, 
net of tax – – 415 – – – 415
Cash flow hedges transferred 
to the statement of income, 
net of tax – – (1) – – – (1)
Gain on available for sale 
financial instruments – – – 501 – – 501
Equity portion of repaid 
convertible bond – (89) –––– (89)
Change in ownership interest 
in subsidiaries –––– 29 – 29
31 December 2014 (2,163) – 58 501 (815) 10 (2,409)
1 January 2015 (2,163) – 58 501 (815) 10 (2,409)
Exchange loss on translation 
of foreign operations (1,727) – –––– (1,727)
Loss on cash flow hedges, 
net of tax –– (89) ––– (89)
Loss on available for sale 
financial instruments ––– (489) –– (489)
Change in ownership  
interest in subsidiaries –––– (16) – (16)
Foreign currency translation 
losses recycled to the 
statement of income 311––––– 311
31 December 2015 (3,579) – (31) 12 (831) 10 (4,419) Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
147 Glencore Annual Report 2015
16. EARNINGS PER SHARE
US$ million 2015 2014
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share (4,964) 2,308
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (thousand) 13,317 ,970 13,098,766
Effect of dilution:
Equity-settled share-based payments (thousand)
1
– 52,579
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (thousand)
1
– 13,151,345
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (US$) (0.37) 0.18
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (US$)
1
(0.37) 0.18
Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange (“JSE”) defined performance measure. The calculation of basic and diluted earnings 
per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2/2013 as issued by the South African Institute of 
Chartered Accountants (“SAICA”), is reconciled using the following data:
Headline earnings:
US$ million 2015 2014
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share (4,964) 2,308
Net loss/(gain) on disposals
2
1,061 (790)
Net loss on disposals – non-controlling interest (31) –
Net (gain)/loss on disposals – tax (263) 550
Impairments
3
6,692 1,101
Impairments – non-controlling interest (2,611) (99)
Impairments – tax (316) (270)
Headline (loss)/earnings for the year (432) 2,800
Headline (loss)/earnings per share (US$) (0.03) 0.21
Diluted headline (loss)/earnings per share (US$)
1
(0.03) 0.21
1 In 2015, as both the result attributable to equity holders and to Headline results is a loss, the effect has not been presented as this would be anti-dilutive.
2 Comprises losses on disposals and investments of $994 million, loss from metal leak of $60 million and loss on vessel charter contract and net other expenses of $7 million  
(see notes 3 and 4). 2014 comprises gains on disposal and investments of $715 million and gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment of $75 million.
3 Comprises impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments and non-current advances and loans (see note 5).
17. DISTRIBUTIONS
US$ million 2015 2014
Paid during the year:
Final distribution for 2014 – $0.12 per ordinary share (2013: $0.111 per ordinary share) 1,551 1,457
Interim distribution for 2015 – $0.06 per ordinary share (2014: $0.06 per ordinary share) 777 787
In specie distribution of Group’s 23.9% in Lonmin plc 298 –
Total 2,626 2,244
As announced on 7 September 2015, the final distribution for 2015 has been suspended. The 2015 interim distribution was paid on 
29 September 2015. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
148 Glencore Annual Report 2015
18. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Number of 
awards granted 
(thousand) 
Fair value at  
grant date  
(US$ million)
Number of 
awards 
outstanding  
2015  
(thousand)
Number of 
awards 
outstanding  
2014  
(thousand)
Expense 
recognised  
2015  
(US$ million)
Expense 
recognised  
2014  
(US$ million)
Deferred Bonus Plan
2013 Series 4,958 24 – 3,717 – –
2014 Series 3,633 20 2,455 3,633 – 20
2015 Series 15,634 35 15,634 – 35 –
Performance Share Plan
2012 Series 3,375 18 – 1,049 – 4
2013 Series 11,065 60 4,075 7,472 20 36
2014 Series 15,611 86 11,035 15,611 46 10
2015 Series 44,475 56 44,475 – – –
Total 77,674 31,482 101 70
Deferred Bonus Plan
Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”), the payment of a portion of a participant’s annual bonus is deferred for a period of one 
to two years as an award of either ordinary shares (a ‘‘Bonus Share Award’’) or cash (a “Bonus Cash Award”). The awards are vested at 
grant date with no further service conditions, however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events. The Bonus Share Awards may be 
satisfied, at Glencore’s option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the 
transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, including 
distributions paid between award and settling. Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares. The associated expense is 
recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular expense for performance bonuses.
Performance share plan
Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan (“PSP”), participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified 
period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events. At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to one ordinary 
share of Glencore. The awards vest in three or five equal tranches on 30 June, 31 December or 31 January of the years following the year 
of grant, as may be the case. The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencore’s ordinary shares at 
grant date. The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencore’s option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary 
shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of 
the award at vesting, including distributions paid between award and vesting. Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
Share-based awards assumed in previous business combinations
Total options 
outstanding 
(thousands)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (GBP)
1 January 2014 155,161 3.74
Forfeited ––
Lapsed (42) 4.93
Exercised¹ (6,557) 1.71
31 December 2014 148,562
1 January 2015 148,562 3.83
Forfeited ––
Lapsed ––
Exercised¹ (1,960) 1.69
31 December 2015 146,602
1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share-based awards was GBP2.89 (2014: GBP3.42).
As at 31 December 2015 a total of 146,601,834 options (2014: 148,561,546 options) were outstanding and exercisable, having a range 
of exercise prices from GBP1.098 to GBP6.880 (2014: GBP1.098 to GBP6.880) and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.853 (2014: 
GBP3.825). These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2016 to February 2022 (2014: March 2015 to February 2022) 
and a weighted average contractual life of 2.8 years (2014: 3.4 years). The awards may be satisfied at Glencore’s option, by the issue of 
new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market. 
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards, when exercised, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
149 Glencore Annual Report 2015
19. BORROWINGS
US$ million Notes 2015 2014
Non-current borrowings
Capital market notes 28,938 30,877
Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 2,994 7,933
Finance lease obligations 29 376 425
Other bank loans 624 1,453
Total non-current borrowings 32,932 40,688
Current borrowings
Secured inventory/receivables facilities 12/13 3,544 3,731
U.S. commercial paper 15 813
Capital market notes 4,474 3,504
Finance lease obligations 29 88 51
Other bank loans
1
2,996 3,906
Total current borrowings 11,117 12,005
1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Committed syndicated revolving credit facility
In May 2015, Glencore signed new revolving credit facilities for a total amount of $15.25 billion. These facilities refinanced earlier 
$15.3 billion of one-year and three-year revolving credit facilities signed in June 2014. Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at 
U.S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 40 to 55 basis points per annum.
The new and amended facilities comprise:
• a $8.45 billion 12 month revolving credit facility with a 12 month term-out option and 12 month extension option; and
• a $6.8 billion 5 year revolving credit facility with two 12 month extension options.
In February 2016, Glencore announced that it has signed a new Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”), which will ultimately refinance and 
replace the existing $8.45 billion facility. In pre-syndication, $7.7 billion of commitments from 37 banks were signed into and in Q2 2016 the 
refinancing will be broadened via launch of general syndication to some 30 additional banks. Consistent with the current facility, this new 
facility remains unsecured, containing a 12 month extension option and 12 month borrower’s term-out option, thereby extending the final 
maturity to May 2018 (see note 33).
U.S. commercial paper
Glencore has in place a standalone U.S. commercial paper programme for $4,000 million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&P’s and 
Moody’s rating agencies. The notes issued under this programme carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 397 
days from the date of issue. Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U.S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 35 to 70 basis points 
per annum. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
150 Glencore Annual Report 2015
19. BORROWINGS (continued) 
Capital Market Notes
US$ million Maturity 2015 2014
AUD 500 million 4.500% coupon bonds Sep 2019 374 424
Euro 1,250 million 1.750% coupon bonds May 2016 – 1,512
Euro 1,250 million 5.250% coupon bond Mar 2017 1,281 1,511
Euro 500 million 5.250%, coupon bonds Jun 2017 556 676
Euro 1,250 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2018 1,337 1,511
Euro 1,000 million 2.625% coupon bonds Nov 2018 1,086 1,210
Euro 750 million 3.375% coupon bonds Sep 2020 801 901
Euro 1,250 million 1.250% coupon bonds Mar 2021 1,330 –
Euro 600 million 2.750% coupon bonds Apr 2021 633 719
Euro 700 million 1.625% coupon bonds Jan 2022 753 837
Euro 400 million 3.700% coupon bonds Oct 2023 432 479
Euro 750 million 1.750% coupon bonds Mar 2025 804 –
Euro 500 million 3.750% coupon bonds Apr 2026 539 599
Eurobonds 9,552 9,955
JPY 10 billion 1.075% coupon bonds May 2022 83 –
GBP 650 million 6.500% coupon bonds Feb 2019 948 1,003
GBP 500 million 7.375% coupon bonds May 2020 821 886
GBP 500 million 6.000% coupon bonds Apr 2022 747 792
Sterling bonds 2,516 2,681
CHF 825 million 3.625% coupon bonds Apr2016 – 831
CHF 450 million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 449 453
CHF 175 million 2.125% coupon bonds Dec 2019 174 175
CHF 500 million 1.250% coupon bonds Dec 2020 498 502
Swiss Franc bonds 1,121 1,961
US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.16% coupon bonds May 2016 – 499
US$ 1,000 million 1.700% coupon bonds May 2016 – 999
US$ 1,000 million 5.800% coupon bonds Nov 2016 – 1,076
US$ 700 million 3.600% coupon bonds Jan 2017 707 724
US$ 250 million 5.500% coupon bonds Jun 2017 262 270
US$ 1,750 million 2.700% coupon bonds Oct 2017 1,753 1,771
US$ 250 million LIBOR plus 1.06% coupon bonds Apr 2018 233 –
US$ 500 million 2.125% coupon bonds Apr 2018 463 –
US$ 200 million LIBOR plus 1.200% coupon bonds May 2018 200 200
US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.360% coupon bonds Jan 2019 499 499
US$ 1,500 million 2.500% coupon bonds Jan 2019 1,474 1,499
US$ 1,000 million 3.125% coupon bonds Apr 2019 1,006 1,001
US$ 1,000 million 2.875% coupon bonds Apr 2020 990 –
US$ 400 million 5.950% coupon bonds Aug 2020 400 400
US$ 1,000 million 4.950% coupon bonds Nov 2021 1,066 1,076
US$ 250 million LIBOR plus 1.650% coupon bonds May 2022 250 –
US$ 1,000 million 4.250% coupon bonds Oct 2022 1,016 1,022
US$ 1,500 million 4.125% coupon bonds May 2023 1,553 1,537
US$ 1,000 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2024 1,046 1,041
US$ 500 million 4.000% coupon bonds Apr 2025 485 –
US$ 250 million 6.200% coupon bonds Jun 2035 274 275
US$ 500 million 6.900% coupon bonds Nov 2037 600 602
US$ 500 million 6.000% coupon bonds Nov 2041 541 542
US$ 500 million 5.550% coupon bonds Oct 2042 474 474
US$ 350 million 7.500% coupon bonds Perpetual – 349
US$ bonds 15,292 15,856
Total non-current bonds 28,938 30,877 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
151 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Capital Market Notes
US$ million Maturity 2015 2014
Euro 750 million 7.125% coupon bonds Apr 2015 – 907
Euro 600 million 6.250% coupon bonds May 2015 – 735
Euro 1,250 million 1.750% coupon bonds May 2016 1,228 –
Eurobonds 1,228 1,642
US$ 250 million 5.375% coupon bonds Jun 2015 – 254
US$ 1,250 million 2.050% coupon bonds Oct 2015 – 1,255
US$ 341 million 6.000% coupon bonds Oct 2015 – 353
US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.16% coupon bonds May 2016 489 –
US$ 1,000 million 1.700% coupon bonds May 2016 1,000 –
US$ 1,000 million 5.800% coupon bonds Nov 2016 934 –
US$ bonds 2,423 1,862
CHF 825 million 3.625% coupon bonds Apr 2016 823 –
Total current bonds 4,474 3,504
2015 Bond activities
Eurobonds
• In March 2015, Glencore issued in two tranches EUR 2.0 billion of interest bearing notes as follows:
 – 6 year EUR 1,250 million, 1.250% fixed coupon bonds; and 
 – 10 year EUR 750 million, 1.750% fixed coupon bonds.
US$ bonds
• In April 2015, Glencore issued in four tranches $2.25 billion of interest bearing notes as follows:
 – 3 year $500 million, 2.125% fixed coupon bonds;
 – 3 year $250 million, LIBOR plus 1.06% floating rate bond; 
 – 5 year $1,000 million, 2.875% fixed coupon bonds; and
 – 10 year $500 million, 4.0% fixed coupon bonds. 
Japanese Yen bonds
• In June 2015, Glencore issued 7 year JPY 40 billion of 1.075% fixed coupon bonds. In December 2015, Glencore converted JPY 
30 billion of such bonds into new 7 year $250 million LIBOR plus 1.650% coupon bonds; the balance of JPY 10 billion of these bonds 
remains outstanding.
In October 2015, Glencore redeemed (1st call date) its perpetual bonds with a nominal value of $350 million.
In Q4 2015, Glencore repurchased bonds with a nominal value of $564 million, comprising primarily 2016 and 2017 maturities.
Secured facilities
US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2015 2014
Syndicated committed metals inventory/receivables facilities Jan¹/Mar 2016 380
US$ LIBOR  
+ 110/150 bps 350 435
Syndicated uncommitted metals inventory/receivables facilities  Jan 2016¹ 2,910
US$ LIBOR 
+ 50/70/150 bps 2,161 1,818
Syndicated uncommitted Oil receivables facilities Jan¹/Oct 2016 550
US$ LIBOR 
+ 70 bps 550 983
Syndicated uncommitted agricultural products inventory/
receivables facilities Jan¹/Oct 2016 520
US$ LIBOR 
+ 70 bps 483 495
Total 4,360 3,544 3,731
1 Since year-end, in the ordinary course of business, these maturities have been rolled/extended as required. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
152 Glencore Annual Report 2015
20. DEFERRED INCOME
US$ million Notes
Unfavourable 
contracts Prepayment Total
1 January 2014 1,320 162 1,482
Utilised in the year (122) (27) (149)
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference (60) – (60)
31 December 2014 1,138 135 1,273
Current 129 24 153
Non-current 1,009 111 1,120
1 January 2015 1,138 135 1,273
Additions –900 900
Utilised in the year (146) (149) (295)
Disposals and loss of control of subsidiaries 24 (212) – (212)
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference (127) – (127)
31 December 2015 653 886 1,539
Current 53 34 87
Non-current 600 852 1,452
Unfavourable contracts
In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes 
of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2017 and 2045 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the 
respective acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates 
consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayment
In December 2015, effective 1 October 2015, Glencore entered into a long-term streaming agreement with Silver Wheaton Corporation 
(“Silver Wheaton”), for the delivery of the equivalent of 33.75% of the silver produced by the Antamina mine (“ Antamina”) until 
140 million ounces of silver is delivered, at which time, the designated percentage reduces to 22.50% of the silver production from 
Antamina over the remaining life of mine. In consideration, Silver Wheaton made an up-front advance payment of $900 million and pays 
an ongoing amount of 20% of the spot silver price for each ounce of silver delivered under the streaming agreement. The arrangement 
has been accounted for as an executory contract whereby the advance payment has been recorded as deferred revenue. The revenue from 
the advance payment is being recognised as the silver is delivered to Silver Wheaton at an amount consistent with the implied forward 
price curve at the time of the transaction along with the ongoing cash payments. An accretion expense, representing the time value of the 
upfront deposit on the deferred revenue balance, will also be recognised. As at 31 December 2015, 1,340,000 ounces have been delivered 
under the contract. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
153 Glencore Annual Report 2015
21. PROVISIONS
US$ million
Post-retirement 
employee  
benefits
Other employee 
entitlements
Rehabilitation  
costs 
Onerous  
contracts Other
1
Total
1 January 2014 980 363 3,963 1,930 1,151 8,387
Provision utilised in the year (285) (125) (369) (229) (243) (1,251)
Accretion in the year – – 181 9 – 190
Assumed in business combination² – – 10 4 – 14
Additional provision in the year 455 72 102 36 283 948
Effect of foreign currency exchange 
difference (80) (2) (51) (20) (4) (157)
31 December 2014 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131
Current – – 86 129 361 576
Non-current 1,070 308 3,750 1,601 826 7,555
1 January 2015 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131
Provision utilised in the year (249) (137) (448) (447) (457) (1,738)
Accretion in the year –– 1786– 184
Assumed in business combination² –––– 21 21
Disposals and cessation of control 
of subsidiaries² (2) – (241) – (18) (261)
Additional provision in the year 102 52 (302) 189 268 309
Effect of foreign currency exchange 
difference (118) (2) (118) – (11) (249)
31 December 2015 803 221 2,905 1,478 990 6,397
Current –– 89 155 230 474
Non-current 803 221 2,816 1,323 760 5,923
1 Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
2 See note 24.
Post-retirement employee benefits
The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension plan liabilities of $346 million (2014: $531 million) and post-
retirement medical plan liabilities of $457 million (2014: $539 million), see note 22.
Other employee entitlements
The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of 
employment. The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of 
production activities. These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a project’s life, which ranges 
from two to in excess of 50 years with the majority of the costs expected to be incurred in the final years of the underlying operations. 
The costs are discounted to the present value at operation specific rates ranging from 6% – 12% (2014: 5.5% – 13%).
Onerous contracts
In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised a liability related to assumed contractual take or pay commitments for securing 
coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price. 
The provision is released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
154 Glencore Annual Report 2015
22. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the 
years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, were $5,287 million and $6,011 million, respectively. Personnel costs related to consolidated 
industrial subsidiaries of $4,344 million (2014: $5,083 million) are included in cost of goods sold. Other personnel costs, including the 
deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices. Eligibility for 
participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire. Among these 
schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans
Glencore’s contributions under these plans amounted to $199 million in 2015 (2014: $235 million).
Post-retirement medical plans
The Company participates in a number of post-retirement medical plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription 
drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees. Almost all of the post-retirement medical plans in the Group 
are unfunded.
Defined benefit pension plans
The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the US. 
Approximately 75% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension 
plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. Contributions to the Canadian 
plans are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and associated federal 
taxation rules.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds; however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where 
Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due. Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each 
country. Responsibility for governance of the plans – overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution 
schedules – lies with Glencore. Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed 
experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
The movement in the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans over the year is as follows:
Defined benefit pension plans
US$ million
Post-retirement 
medical plans
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligation
Fair value of  
plan assets
Net liability for 
defined benefit 
pension plans
1 January 2015 539 4,185 (3,654) 531
Current service cost 972 – 72
Past service cost – plan amendments (1) 1 – 1
Settlement – (183) 177 (6)
Interest expense/(income) 20 139 (123) 16
Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 28 29 54 83
Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense – net – – (86) (86)
Gain from change in demographic assumptions (1) (3) – (3)
Loss/(gain) from change in financial assumptions 2(39) – (39)
(Gain)/loss from actuarial experience (5) 10 – 10
Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense – (4) – (4)
Actuarial gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income (4) (36) (86) (122)
Employer contributions –– (108) (108)
Employee contributions –2 (2) –
Benefits paid directly by the Company (24) (10) 10 –
Benefits paid from plan assets – (217) 217 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (24) (225) 117 (108)
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
–(3) 1(2)
Exchange differences (82) (545) 509 (36)
Other (82) (548) 510 (38)
31 December 2015 457 3,405 (3,059) 346
1 See note 24. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
155 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Defined benefit pension plans
US$ million
Post-retirement 
medical plans
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligation
Fair value of  
plan assets
Net liability for 
defined benefit 
pension plans
1 January 2014 584 4,059 (3,663) 396
Current service cost 10 71 – 71
Past service cost – plan amendments (2) 1 – 1
Settlement –(40) 26 (14)
Interest expense/(income) 27 173 (160) 13
Total expense/(income) recognised in consolidated  
statement of income 35 205 (134) 71
Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense – net – – (254) (254)
Loss from change in demographic assumptions 16 73 – 73
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (15) 463 – 463
(Gain)/loss from actuarial experience (10) 12 – 12
Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense – (31) – (31)
Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income (9) 517 (254) 263
Employer contributions –– (164) (164)
Employee contributions –2 (2) –
Benefits paid directly by the Company (26) (13) 13 –
Benefits paid from plan assets – (248) 248 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (26) (259) 95 (164)
Exchange differences (45) (337) 302 (35)
Other (45) (337) 302 (35)
31 December 2014 539 4,185 (3,654) 531
The Group expects to make a contribution of $116 million to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans during the next 
financial year.
The defined benefit obligation accrued to date in Canada represents the majority for the Company. The breakdown below provides details 
of the Canadian plans for both the balance sheet and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 
2015 and 2014. The defined benefit obligation of any other of the Group’s defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2015 does not exceed 
$195 million (2014: $205 million).
2015  
US$ million Canada Other Total
Post-retirement medical plans
Present value of defined benefit obligation 395 62 457
of which: amounts owing to active members 121 21 142
of which: amounts owing to pensioners 274 41 315
Defined benefit pension plans
Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,534 871 3,405
of which: amounts owing to active members 571 457 1,028
of which: amounts owing to not active members 102 197 299
of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,861 217 2,078
Fair value of plan assets (2,454) (605) (3,059)
Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2015 80 266 346
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation – years 13 18 14 Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
156 Glencore Annual Report 2015
22. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
2014  
US$ million Canada Other Total
Post-retirement medical plans
Present value of defined benefit obligation 468 71 539
of which: amounts owing to active members 143 27 170
of which: amounts owing to pensioners 325 44 369
Defined benefit pension plans
Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,271 914 4,185
of which: amounts owing to active members 746 467 1,213
of which: amounts owing to not active members 142 217 359
of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,383 230 2,613
Fair value of plan assets (3,026) (628) (3,654)
Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2014 245 286 531
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation – years 12 17 13
The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension plans amounted to a loss of $300 million (2014: gain of $112 million), 
mainly resulting from foreign exchange movements.
The plan assets consist of the following:
US$ million 2015 2014
Cash and short-term investments 88 80
Fixed income 1,605 2,056
Equities 1,180 1,379
Other
1
186 139
Total 3,059 3,654
1 Includes securities in non-active markets in the amount of $58 million (2014: $60 million).
The fair value of plan assets includes none of Glencore’s own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other assets used 
by Glencore. For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies are in place, 
where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion allocated to 
fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets 
underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to 
outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term. Glencore believes that due to the long-term 
nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencore’s long-term strategy to manage 
the plans efficiently.
Change in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the 
value of the plans’ bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans’ benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, 
in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy 
will result in an increase in the plans’ liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans’ benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries. Higher salary increases will 
therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
157 Glencore Annual Report 2015
The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
Post-retirement medical plans Defined benefit pension plans
2015 2014 2015 2014
Discount rate 4.2% 4.2% 3.7% 3.7%
Future salary increases 2.8% 2.9% 2.7% 2.9%
Future pension increases – – 0.4% 0.4%
Ultimate medical cost trend rate 4.3% 4.3% – –
Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned. As at 
31 December 2015, these tables imply expected future life expectancy, for employees aged 65, 19 to 24 years for males (2014: 16 to 24) and 
23 to 26 years for females (2014: 20 to 26). The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to 
reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is set out below, assuming that 
all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded.
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation
US$ million
Post-retirement 
medical plans
Defined benefit 
pension plans Total
Discount rate
Increase by 100 basis points (59) (402) (461)
Decrease by 100 basis points 67 485 552
Rate of future salary increase
Increase by 100 basis points –45 45
Decrease by 100 basis points –(42) (42)
Rate of future pension benefit increase
Increase by 100 basis points –36 36
Decrease by 100 basis points –(30) (30)
Medical cost trend rate
Increase by 100 basis points 57 – 57
Decrease by 100 basis points (50) – (50)
Life expectancy
Increase in longevity by 1 year 11 82 93
23. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
US$ million 2015 2014
Trade payables 19,424 22,448
Trade advances from buyers 1,684 1,479
Associated companies 467 473
Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,513 2,481
Total 24,088 26,881
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services. Trade payables typically have maturities up to 90 days depending on the type 
of material and the geographic area in which the purchase transaction occurs and the agreed terms. The carrying value of trade payables 
approximates fair value. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
158 Glencore Annual Report 2015
24. ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES
2015 Acquisitions
In 2015, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Prokon Pflanzenöl GmbH, subsequently renamed Glencore Magdeburg GmbH 
(“Magdeburg”) and Twin Rivers Technologies Enterprises De Transformation De Graines Oléagineuses Du Québec Inc. (“TRT”). The net 
cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition 
dates are detailed below:
US$ million Magdeburg TRT Total
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 178 108 286
Deferred tax assets –39 39
178 147 325
Current assets
Inventories 544 49
Accounts receivable
1 
622 28
Other financial assets 13 4
Cash and cash equivalents 45 9
16 74 90
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (22) – (22)
Provisions (21) – (21)
(43) – (43)
Current liabilities
Accounts payable (14) (23) (37)
Other financial liabilities (3) (5) (8)
(17) (28) (45)
Total fair value of net assets acquired 134 193 327
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (4) (5) (9)
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 130 188 318
1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
Magdeburg
In March 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Magdeburg for a cash consideration of $134 million. The acquisition 
of Magdeburg, an integrated oilseeds crushing and biodiesel plant located in Germany, adds further value to and enlarges our crushing 
portfolio in Europe, allowing Glencore to further optimise around this business sector.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2015, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $15 million and an 
additional attributable loss of $2 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $161 million and $10 million of revenue 
and attributable loss, respectively.
TRT
In November 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in TRT for a cash consideration of $193 million. TRT owns the 
largest oilseed crushing and refining plant in Quebec, Canada with a capacity of 1.05 million tonnes per year.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2015, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $237 million and an 
additional attributable loss of $20 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $65 million and $1 million of revenue and 
attributable income, respectively. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
159 Glencore Annual Report 2015
2015 Disposals
In 2015, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Tampakan and Falcondo. Furthermore, upon Optimum Coal commencing business 
rescue proceedings, Glencore ceased having control over Optimum in August 2015. As a result of such loss of control, Optimum is no 
longer accounted for as a subsidiary and has been deconsolidated (see note 3).
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below:
US$ million Tampakan Falcondo Optimum
1
Other Total
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 161 11 809 5 986
Intangible assets –– 712– 712
Loans and advances 1– 256– 257
162 11 1,777 5 1,955
Current assets
Inventories –45 39 12 96
Accounts receivable 21 12 34 12 79
Cash and cash equivalents –1 15 22 38
21 58 88 46 213
Non-controlling interest (14) – (243) – (257)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (142) – (277) – (419)
Deferred income –– (150) – (150)
Deferred tax liabilities – (1) (203) (1) (205)
Provisions (8) (110) (137) – (255)
(150) (111) (767) (1) (1,029)
Current liabilities
Accounts payable (3) (5) (64) (42) (114)
Deferred income –– (62) – (62)
Provisions –– (6) – (6)
(3) (5) (132) (42) (182)
Carrying value of net assets/(liabilities) disposed 16 (47) 723 8 700
Less: Cash and cash equivalents received (208) (40) – (2) (250)
Add: Foreign currency translation losses recycled
to the statement of income –– 311– 311
Net (gain)/loss on disposal (192) (87) 1,034 6 761
Cash and cash equivalents received 208 40 – 2 250
Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed –(1) (15) (22) (38)
Net cash received from disposal 208 39 (15) (20) 212
1 Includes associated impairments of $152 million (see note 3). Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
160 Glencore Annual Report 2015
24. ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
2014 Acquisitions
In 2014, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Caracal Energy Inc (“Caracal”), Zhairemsky GOK JSC (“Zhairemsky”) and other 
immaterial entities. The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on 
the acquisition dates are detailed below:
US$ million Caracal Zhairemsky Other Total
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,799 351 27 2,177
Intangible assets 1– 12 13
Advances and loans
1
––1 1
Deferred tax assets 1–– 1
1,801 351 40 2,192
Current assets
Inventories –98 17
Accounts receivable
1
 86 8 20 114
Cash and cash equivalents 31 17 – 48
117 34 28 179
Non-controlling interest
2
–– (8) (8)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities –(52) – (52)
Other financial liabilities – (3) (5) (8)
Provisions (1) (13) – (14)
(1) (68) (5) (74)
Current liabilities
Borrowings (161) – – (161)
Accounts payable (149) (9) (53) (211)
(310) (9) (53) (372)
Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,607 308 2 1,917
Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans (77) – – (77)
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (31) (17) – (48)
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,499 291 2 1,792
1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
2 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
Caracal
On 8 July 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of the remaining issued and outstanding equity of Caracal, an oil and gas exploration 
and development company with operations in the Republic of Chad, Africa, for a total consideration of $1,607 million. This increased 
Glencore’s ownership from 13.2% to 100% and provides Glencore the ability to exercise control over Caracal.
The acquisition accounting has now been finalised. The final fair value adjustments to the provisionally reported values relate to 
reclassifications within property, plant and equipment resulting from the refinement of acquisition date pricing forecasts and revisions  
to assumptions that existed at the acquisition date including corporate cost forecasts, oil quality adjustments and pipeline tariff costs  
(see note 7).
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $56 million and 
additional attributable loss of $25 million. From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $101 million and $80 million of revenue 
and attributable loss, respectively.
The acquisition of Caracal enlarged Glencore’s regional oil portfolio enabling the Group to establish its own African oil operational 
footprint, from which to seek additional regional commercial/development opportunities, as they arise.
Zhairemsky
On 11 December 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Zhairemsky GOK JSC, located in Kazakhstan, for a cash 
consideration of $308 million. The acquisition enhances and complements Glencore’s existing operations in Kazakhstan, including an 
expectation that the additional zinc/lead resources will significantly increase Kazzinc’s weighted average own-source life of mine.
The acquisition accounting has now been finalised, with no adjustments to the previously reported provisional fair values. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
161 Glencore Annual Report 2015
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $78 million and 
additional attributable loss of $2 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $6 million and $1 million of revenue and 
attributable loss, respectively.
Other
Other comprises primarily the acquisition of an additional 16.99% interest in Energia Austral, increasing Glencore’s ultimate ownership 
to 65.99%. From the date of acquisition, 1 January 2014, the operations contributed $25 million and $15 million to Glencore’s revenue and 
attributable income, respectively.
2014 Disposals
In 2014, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Las Bambas that was acquired as part of the Xstrata business combination in May 
2013. Other consists primarily of the disposal of Frieda River, a copper project in Papua New Guinea. The carrying value of the assets and 
liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below:
US$ million Las Bambas Other Total
Property, plant and equipment –89 89
Accounts receivable –9 9
Assets held for sale 6,884 – 6,884
Accounts payable –(2) (2)
Liabilities held for sale (604) – (604)
Non-controlling interest –(16) (16)
Total carrying value of net assets disposed 6,280 80 6,360
Cash and cash equivalents received 6,449 33 6,482
Future consideration receivable 15 34 49
Total consideration 6,464 67 6,531
Net gain/(loss) on disposal 184 (13) 171
25. FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencore’s operations comprise market risk (including commodity price 
risk, interest rate risk and currency risk), credit risk (including performance risk) and liquidity risk. It is Glencore’s policy and practice 
to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks (except “margin” risk within its extensive and diversified 
industrial portfolio – refer net present value at risk below) to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security 
and flexibility. Glencore’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect 
its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial 
risks. Glencore’s finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report 
regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the 
financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencore’s objectives in managing its “capital attributable to equity holders” include preserving its overall financial health and strength 
for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an 
attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability. 
Central to meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status. Glencore’s current credit ratings are Baa3 
(stable) from Moody’s and BBB- (stable) from S&P.
Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives
In September 2015, the Board determined that no cash distributions would be made in 2016, in an effort to preserve capital and investment 
grade credit ratings. The Board remains focused on delivery of the Group’s debt reduction target, and will consider the resumption 
of distributions to shareholders when it considers these have been realised. The manner and timing of future distributions will be 
determined after consultation with shareholders. Distributions are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually (with the half-year 
results and the preliminary full-year results). Distributions, when declared, will be paid in US dollars, although shareholders will be able 
to elect to receive their distribution payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the 
date of payment. Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their distributions in Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders 
on the JSE will receive their distributions in South African Rand.  Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
162 Glencore Annual Report 2015
25. FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Commodity price risk
Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward 
contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts. Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through 
futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter (“OTC”) markets, to the extent available. 
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencore’s physical commodity marketing activities and 
the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, 
including clearing brokers and exchanges. Whilst it is Glencore’s policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains 
the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk. The hedging 
instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in 
an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure. Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencore’s commodity 
department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Value at risk
One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its 
physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk (“VaR”) computation. VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates 
a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, 
given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history. The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based 
approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations 
between commodities and markets. In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures 
can be aggregated to derive a single risk value. Glencore’s Board has set a consolidated VaR limit (one day 95% confidence level) of 
$100 million representing less than 0.5% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually. The consolidated VaR limit of $100 million was 
not exceeded during the year.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history 
for a one-day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups’ net 
marketing positions to determine potential losses.
Market risk VaR (one-day 95% confidence level) ranges and year-end positions were as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Year-end position 18 39
Average during the year 35 36
High during the year 52 65
Low during the year 17 16
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that 
these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results. VaR should always 
be viewed in the context of its limitations; notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks 
and tail risks. Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward 
looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated 
VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
Glencore’s VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals (including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper and lead), coal, 
iron ore, oil/natural gas and main risks in the agricultural products business segment (grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton) and assesses 
the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities. Due to the lack of a liquid terminal 
market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated 
with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis. Alternative measures are used to 
monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk
Glencore’s future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to 
commodity price movements. Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term 
hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the 
underlying operations’ estimated cash flows and valuations. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
163 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Interest rate risk
Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets 
and liabilities and cash flows. Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks; other 
methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments. Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund 
fast turning working capital (interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital) is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus 
an appropriate premium. Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 
50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables held constant, Glencore’s income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 
would decrease/increase by $59 million (2014: $95 million).
Currency risk
The US dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group. Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates 
related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the US dollar. Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital 
expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency. Purchases or sales of commodities 
concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act 
as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts. Consequently, foreign exchange 
movements against the US dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact. Glencore enters into currency 
hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencore’s debt related payments (both principal and interest) are overwhelmingly denominated in or swapped using hedging 
instruments into US dollars. Glencore’s operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of 
which the US dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South 
African Rand are the predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc, Sterling, Yen and Australian dollar denominated bonds (see note 19). Cross currency swaps were 
concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds. These contracts were designated as 
cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds. The fair value of these derivatives is as follows:
Notional amounts Recognised fair values
Average
maturity¹ US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities
Cross currency swap agreements – 2015 – 15,541 21 2,471 2020
Cross currency swap agreements – 2014 – 15,762 15 1,727 2019
1 Refer to note 19 for details.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment 
terms. Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and 
advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans. Glencore’s credit management process includes the assessment, 
monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis. Glencore’s cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a 
diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions. Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large 
number of customers comprising Glencore’s customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as 
Glencore’s policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate. 
Additionally, it is Glencore’s policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master 
netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to/from a common counterparty in the event of default 
by the counterparty. Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a 
credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings. Balances with counterparties not having a public investment 
grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, 
such as letters of credit or insurance products. Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 1.9% 
(2014: 2.5%) of its trade receivables (on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements) or accounting for more than 4.7% of its 
revenues over the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: 3.5%).
The maximum exposure to credit risk (including performance risk – see below), without considering netting agreements or without taking 
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencore’s financial assets (see note 26). Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
164 Glencore Annual Report 2015
25. FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Performance risk
Performance risk (part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above) is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the 
future, to physically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may 
not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to/from Glencore. Glencore undertakes the 
assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process. Glencore’s market breadth, 
diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencore’s commodity portfolio 
which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, 
ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated. The commodity industry has trended towards shorter-term fixed price contract 
periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot 
markets, e.g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, 
to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments. 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed 
funding facilities. Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed 
undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion (2014: $3 billion). Glencore’s credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, 
ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements. As part of its liquidity management, Glencore 
closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing/extension 
requirements, well ahead of time.
As at 31 December 2015, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to 
$15,155 million (2014: $9,620 million). The maturity profile of Glencore’s financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows:
2015  
US$ million After 5 years Due 3–5 years Due 2–3 years Due 1–2 years Due 0–1 year Total
Borrowings 11,401 10,949 2,823 7 ,759 11,117 44,049
Expected future interest payments 3,965 1,515 796 814 935 8,025
Accounts payable –––– 24,088 24,088
Other financial liabilities 186 – – – 4,931 5,117
Total 15,552 12,464 3,619 8,573 41,071 81,279
Current assets 42,198 42,198
2014  
US$ million After 5 years Due 3–5 years Due 2–3 years Due 1–2 years Due 0–1 year Total
Borrowings 13,467 8,122 5,286 13,813 12,005 52,693
Expected future interest payments 4,363 1,686 906 992 1,068 9,015
Accounts payable –––– 26,881 26,881
Other financial liabilities 295 342 – 343 3,956 4,936
Total 18,125 10,150 6,192 15,148 43,910 93,525
Current assets 53,219 53,219
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Fair value of financial instruments
The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencore’s financial instruments. Fair value is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (most advantageous) market at 
the measurement date under current market conditions. Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. 
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest 
and exchange rates. The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, 
but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate 
the fair values with the exception of $44,049 million (2014: $52,693 million) of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 
2015 was $39,406 million (2014: $53,285 million) based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio (a Level 2 fair 
value measurement). Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
165 Glencore Annual Report 2015
2015  
US$ million 
Carrying
value
1
Available  
for sale FVtPL
2
Total
Assets
Other investments
3
–1,092 213 1,305
Advances and loans 3,005 – – 3,005
Accounts receivable 17 ,001 – – 17,001
Other financial assets (see note 27) –– 3,701 3,701
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities
4
–– 2,746 2,746
Total financial assets 20,006 1,092 6,660 27,758
Liabilities
Borrowings 44,049 – – 44,049
Non-current other financial liabilities (see note 27) –– 186 186
Accounts payable 24,088 – – 24,088
Other financial liabilities (see note 27) –– 4,931 4,931
Total financial liabilities 68,137 – 5,117 73,254
1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL – Fair value through profit and loss – held for trading.
3 Other investments of $568 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $737 million being investments in private companies 
whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried at cost.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and/or market prices.
2014  
US$ million  
Carrying
value
1
Available  
for sale FVtPL
2
Total
Assets
Other investments
3
–895 577 1,472
Advances and loans 4,597 – – 4,597
Accounts receivable 21,456 – – 21,456
Other financial assets (see note 27) – – 4,036 4,036
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities
4
–– 2,855 2,855
Total financial assets 26,053 895 7,468 34,416
Liabilities
Borrowings 52,693 – – 52,693
Non-current other financial liabilities (see note 27) – – 980 980
Accounts payable 26,881 – – 26,881
Other financial liabilities (see note 27) – – 3,956 3,956
Total financial liabilities 79,574 – 4,936 84,510
1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL – Fair value through profit and loss – held for trading.
3 Other investments of $1,354 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $118 million being investments in private companies 
whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried at cost.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and/or market prices. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
166 Glencore Annual Report 2015
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position 
only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar 
agreements as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 were as follows:
Amounts eligible for set off 
under netting agreements
Related amounts not set off 
under netting agreements
Amounts  
not subject  
to netting 
agreements
Total as  
presented  
in the 
consolidated 
statement  
of financial 
position
2015  
US$ million
Gross  
amount
Amounts  
offset
Net  
amount 
Financial 
instruments
Financial 
collateral
Net  
amount
Derivative assets
1
6,164 (4,282) 1,882 (406) (494) 982 1,819 3,701
Derivative liabilities
1
(6,799) 4,282 (2,517) 406 1,674 (437) (2,414) (4,931)
1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Amounts eligible for set off 
under netting agreements
Related amounts not set off
under netting agreements
Amounts  
not subject  
to netting 
agreements
Total as  
presented  
in the 
consolidated 
statement  
of financial 
position
2014  
US$ million 
Gross  
amount
Amounts  
offset
Net  
amount 
Financial 
instruments
Financial 
collateral
Net  
amount
Derivative assets
1
19,282 (17 ,115) 2,167 (483) (497) 1,187 1,869 4,036
Derivative liabilities
1
(19,022) 17 ,115 (1,906) 483 924 (499) (2,050) (3,956)
1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the 
Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis. 
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting 
or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. Per the terms 
of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation 
required by the agreement (other than payment) if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is 
given to the party or bankruptcy.
27. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where 
available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in/outflows. Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial 
instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair 
value of the financial asset or liability as follows:
Level 1   Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the 
measurement date; or
Level 2  Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly; or
Level 3  Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level 2 
classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward 
transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes. Level 3 classifications 
primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominantly from models that use broker quotes and 
applicable market-based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value of 
certain mining operations. In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs (Level 3 fair values), 
it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencore’s policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements 
or long form confirmations to enable balances due to/from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy by the counterparty. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
167 Glencore Annual Report 2015
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward 
purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2015 and 2014. 
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and 
cash equivalents and marketable securities. Refer to notes 12 and 26 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements. 
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Other financial assets
2015  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 889 246 – 1,135
Options 30 15 – 45
Swaps 112 556 – 668
Physical forwards –1,299 224 1,523
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –189 – 189
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts –141 – 141
Total 1,031 2,446 224 3,701
2014  
US$ million  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 1,008 183 – 1,191
Options 21 27 1 49
Swaps 133 771 – 904
Physical forwards 21 1,101 339 1,461
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –158 – 158
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 2 271 – 273
Total 1,185 2,511 340 4,036
Other financial liabilities
2015  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 414 33 – 447
Options 40 4 1 45
Swaps 197 323 – 520
Physical forwards –1,156 205 1,361
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –2,196 – 2,196
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 3359 – 362
Current other financial liabilities 654 4,071 206 4,931
Non-current other financial liabilities
Non-discretionary dividend obligation
1
–– 186 186
Non-current other financial liabilities – – 186 186
Total 654 4,071 392 5,117
1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Group’s principal coal joint operations based in South Africa. The liability arises from ARM Coal’s rights as 
an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate. The derivative 
liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
168 Glencore Annual Report 2015
27. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (continued)
Other financial liabilities
2014  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 580 8 – 588
Options 199 12 40 251
Swaps 118 98 – 216
Physical forwards 4 893 264 1,161
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –1,281 – 1,281
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts – 459 – 459
Current other financial liabilities 901 2,751 304 3,956
Non-current other financial liabilities
Non-discretionary dividend obligation
1
–– 295 295
Put option over non-controlling interest
2
–– 685 685
Non-current other financial liabilities –– 980 980
Total 901 2,751 1,284 4,936
1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Group’s principal coal joint operations based in South Africa. The liability arises from ARM Coal’s rights as 
an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate. The derivative 
liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
2  The position related to a put option over the remaining 31% of Mutanda that was exercisable in two equal tranches in July 2016 and July 2018. In June 2015, an agreement was reached 
to cancel the put/call option and, as such, the liability was released resulting in a corresponding increase in the associated non-controlling interest. Neither party paid consideration to 
cancel the put/call option.
The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities:
US$ million 
Physical 
forwards Options Other
Total  
Level 3
1 January 2014 215 (716) (359) (860)
Total gain/(loss) recognised in cost of goods sold (34) (39) – (73)
Non-discretionary dividend obligation –– 64 64
Realised (106) 31 – (75)
31 December 2014 75 (724) (295) (944)
1 January 2015 75 (724) (295) (944)
Total gain/(loss) recognised in cost of goods sold 36 (1) – 35
Cancellation of put option over non-controlling interest –685 – 685
Non-discretionary dividend obligation –– 109 109
Realised (92) 39 – (53)
31 December 2015 19 (1) (186) (168)
During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred 
into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
169 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The following 
table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the 
valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets/financial liabilities
US$ million 2015 2014
Futures – Level 1 Assets 889 1,008
Liabilities (414) (580)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Futures – Level 2 Assets 246 183
Liabilities (33) (8)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the 
time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Options – Level 1 Assets 30 21
Liabilities (40) (199)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Options – Level 2 Assets 15 27
Liabilities (4) (12)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the 
time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Options – Level 3 Assets – 1
Liabilities (1) (40)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model
Significant unobservable inputs:
Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, 
including:
– Volatility; and
– Credit risk.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% – 20% of the overall value of the 
instruments. These differentials move in symmetry with each other, e.g. a decrease in volatility leads 
to a decrease in credit risk, resulting in no material change in the underlying value. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
170 Glencore Annual Report 2015
27. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (continued)
Fair value of financial assets/financial liabilities
US$ million 2015 2014
Swaps – Level 1 Assets 112 133
Liabilities (197) (118)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Swaps – Level 2 Assets 556 771
Liabilities (323) (98)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the 
time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Physical Forwards – Level 1 Assets – 21
Liabilities – (4)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Physical Forwards – Level 2 Assets 1,299 1,101
Liabilities (1,156) (893)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the 
time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of non-performance, 
collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Physical Forwards – Level 3 Assets 224 339
Liabilities (205) (264)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Valuation of the Group’s commodity physical forward contracts categorised within this level is based 
on observable market prices that are adjusted by unobservable differentials, as required, including:
– Quality;
– Geographic location;
– Local supply & demand;
– Customer requirements; and
– Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% – 50% of the overall value of the 
instruments. These differentials are generally symmetrical with an increase/decrease in one 
input resulting in an opposite movement in another input, resulting in no material change in the 
underlying value. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
171 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Fair value of financial assets/financial liabilities
US$ million 2015 2014
Cross currency swaps – Level 2 Assets 189 158
Liabilities (2,196) (1,281)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the 
time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts – Level 1 Assets – 2
Liabilities (3) –
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts – Level 2 Assets 141 271
Liabilities (359) (459)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the 
time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Non-discretionary dividend obligation – Level 3 Assets – –
Liabilities (186) (295)
Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model
Significant observable inputs: – Forecast commodity prices; and
–  Discount rates using weighted average cost of 
capital methodology.
Significant unobservable inputs: – Production models;
– Operating costs; and
– Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining 
operation. Increases/decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase/decrease to 
the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases/decreases in the 
assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to 
forecast commodity prices. There are no reasonable changes in assumptions which would result in a 
material change to the fair value of the underlying liability.
Put option over non-controlling interest – Level 3 Assets – –
Liabilities – (685)
Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model
Significant observable inputs: – Forecast commodity prices; and
–  Discount rates using weighted average cost of 
capital methodology
Significant unobservable inputs: – Production models;
– Operating costs; and
– Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining 
operation. Increases/decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase/decrease to 
the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases/decreases in the 
assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to 
forecast commodity prices. There are no reasonable changes in assumptions which would result in 
a material change to the fair value of the underlying liability.
As described above, in June 2015, an agreement was reached to cancel the put option over the 
non-controlling interest, with nil consideration being paid by either party. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
172 Glencore Annual Report 2015
28. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
US$ million 2015 2014
Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencore’s consolidated financial statements 3 4
Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 19 20
Audit-related assurance services
1
3 5
Total audit and related assurance fees 25 29
Corporate finance services – 1
Taxation compliance services 3 2
Other taxation advisory services 2 2
Other assurance services 1 1
Other services – 2
Total non-audit fees 6 8
Total professional fees 31 37
1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Group’s half year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Group’s publicly listed subsidiaries.
29. FUTURE COMMITMENTS
Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the 
respective industrial entities. As at 31 December 2015, $1,088 million (2014: $2,497 million), of which 77% (2014: 80%) relates to expenditure 
to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencore’s exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, 
a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations. As at 31 December 2015, $144 million 
(2014: $255 million) of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 29% (2014: 23%) are for commitments to be settled over 
the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels/chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments. As at 31 December 
2015, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $894 million 
(2014: $1,371 million), of which $145 million (2014: $183 million) are with associated companies. 60% (2014: 37%) of the total charters are for 
services to be received over the next two years.
As part of Glencore’s ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling 
party may request that a financial institution act as either a) the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents 
through the issuance of a letter of credit or b) the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencore’s 
contractual obligations. In addition, Glencore is required to post rehabilitation and pension guarantees in respect of these future 
obligations. As at 31 December 2015, $18,027 million (2014: $16,307 million) of such commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, 
which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity or rehabilitation and pension obligation.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse/storage facilities. Rental expenses for these 
leases totalled respectively $237 million and $279 million for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014. Future net minimum lease 
payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
US$ million 2015 2014
Within 1 year 143 142
Between 2 and 5 years 346 275
After 5 years 170 255
Total 659 672
Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery. Future net minimum 
lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows:
Undiscounted minimum  
lease payments
Present value of minimum  
lease payments
US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014
Within 1 year 116 76 88 51
Between 1 and 5 years 267 236 193 173
After 5 years 277 280 183 252
Total minimum lease payments 660 592 464 476
Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 196 116 – –
Present value of minimum lease payments 464 476 464 476 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
173 Glencore Annual Report 2015
30. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2015 was $nil (2014: $nil). Also see note 10.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below. These contingent liabilities are 
reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group. As at 31 December 
2015 and 2014, it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation
Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore. Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of 
any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims. Glencore believes the likelihood of any material 
liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, therefore resulting from any litigation will not have a material 
adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies
Glencore’s operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Glencore is in material compliance with those laws 
and regulations. Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable. 
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from 
insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain. At this time, Glencore is unaware 
of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Tax audits
Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available. For those 
matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related 
interest charges. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax 
laws. Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or 
unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved. The final outcome of tax 
examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
31. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arm’s length transactions with related parties, including fixed price 
commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service 
agreements. Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash (see notes 11, 13, and 23). There have been 
no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses 
between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. In 2015, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted 
to $1,196 million (2014: $1,200 million) and $3,562 million (2014: $3,178 million) respectively.
Remuneration of key management personnel
Glencore’s key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments. 
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income 
including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $10 million (2014: $10 million). There were no other long-term benefits 
or share-based payments provided to key management personnel (2014: $nil). Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in 
the Director’s remuneration report on page 89. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
174 Glencore Annual Report 2015
32. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES WITH MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following:
US$ million 2015 2014
Kazzinc 1,316 1,404
Koniambo (2,460) –
Optimum
1
– 271
Alumbrera 126 182
Mutanda
2
713 2
Other
3
394 1,079
Total 89 2,938
1 Deconsolidated during 2015 (see note 24).
2 $685 million put option over non-controlling interest was cancelled in June 2015 (see note 27).
3 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencore’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest, reflecting 100% of the 
underlying subsidiary’s relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Alumbrera Mutanda
31 December 2015
Non-current assets 4,796 958 346 4,814
Current assets 872 337 399 440
Total assets 5,668 1,295 745 5,254
Non-current liabilities 975 8,878 241 2,028
Current liabilities 344 114 252 255
Total liabilities 1,319 8,992 493 2,283
Net assets 4,349 (7,697) 252 2,971
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,033 (5,237) 126 2,258
Non-controlling interests 1,316 (2,460) 126 713
Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 50.0% 31.0%
2015
Revenue 2,244 – 503 1,315
Expenses (2,494) (4,824) (616) (1,232)
Net (loss)/profit for the year (250) (4,824) (113) 83
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (174) (2,364) (57) 57
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (76) (2,460) (56) 26
Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company ––––
Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests ––––
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (250) (4,824) (113) 83
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 – – –
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 591 – (138) 330
Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (262) (360) (50) (261)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (319) 404 164 (170)
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) 10 44 (24) (101) Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
175 Glencore Annual Report 2015
US$ million Kazzinc Optimum Alumbrera Mutanda
31 December 2014
Non-current assets 5,085 1,755 458 4,747
Current assets 1,118 77 373 711
Total assets 6,203 1,832 831 5,458
Non-current liabilities 1,168 628 299 2,247
Current liabilities 402 346 167 322
Total liabilities 1,570 974 466 2,569
Net assets 4,633 858 365 2,889
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,229 587 183 2,887
Non-controlling interests 1,404 271 182 2
Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 32.4% 50.0% 31.0%
2014
Revenue 2,517 592 1,037 1,604
Expenses (2,552) (653) (943) (1,259)
Net (loss)/profit for the year (35) (61) 94 345
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (25) (41) 47 238
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (20) 47 107
Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company – – – –
Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests – – – –
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (35) (61) 94 345
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (10) – (144) –
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 232 (47) 235 484
Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (714) (100) (59) (241)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 460 141 (166) (128)
Total net cash (outflow)/inflow (22) (6) 10 115
33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
• In February 2016, Glencore announced that a long-term streaming agreement has been entered into with Franco-Nevada Corporation, 
for delivery of gold and silver calculated by reference to copper produced at the Antapaccay mine, located in Peru. Franco-Nevada will 
make an advance payment of $500 million upon closing of the transaction. In return, Glencore will deliver gold and silver by reference 
to copper production: 300 ounces of gold per 1,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate up until 630,000 ounces of gold have been delivered 
and 30% of gold production thereafter; and 4,700 ounces of silver per 1,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate up until 10,000,000 ounces of 
silver have been delivered and 30% of silver production thereafter. Franco-Nevada will make ongoing payments of 20% of the spot gold 
and silver price per ounce delivered which will increase to 30% of the respective spot prices after 750,000 ounces of gold and 12,800,000 
ounces of silver have been delivered under the contact.
• In February 2016, Glencore announced that it has signed a new Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”), which will ultimately refinance 
and replace the existing $8.45 billion facility. In pre-syndication, $7.7 billion of commitments from 37 banks were signed into and in 
Q2 2016 the refinancing will be broadened via launch of general syndication to some 30 additional banks. Consistent with the current 
facility, this new facility remains unsecured, containing a 12 month extension option and 12 month borrower’s term-out option, thereby 
extending the final maturity to May 2018. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
176 Glencore Annual Report 2015
34. PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2015
% interest  
2014 Main activity
Principal subsidiaries
Metals and minerals
Allied Alumina Inc. (Sherwin) USA 100.0 100.0 Alumina production
Minera Alumbrera Limited
1
Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production
Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S.A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Minera Altos de Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Compania Minera Antapaccay S.A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production
Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production
Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Sagittarius Mines Inc (Tampakan) Philippines 0.0 62.5 Copper production
Katanga Mining Limited
2
Canada 75.3 75.3 Copper/Cobalt production
Mutanda Group DRC 69.0 69.0 Copper/Cobalt production
Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper/Zinc/Lead production
Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper/Zinc/Lead production
Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper/Zinc/Lead production
Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production
Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 66.6 66.6 Hydroelectric project
African Carbon Producers (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production
African Fine Carbon (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production
Char Technology (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production
Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 97.5 88.2 Iron Ore production
Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production
Glencore Manganese Group France/Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace
Pacorini Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing
Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production
Falconbridge Dominican S.A. (Falcondo) Dominican Rep. 0.0 85.3 Nickel production
Koniambo Nickel S.A.S.
3
New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production
Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production
Eland Platinum Mines (Pty) Limited South Africa 74.0 74.0 Platinum production
McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production
Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 90.0 90.0 Zinc production
Nordenhammer Zinkhütte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production
Asturiana de Zinc S.A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production
1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board 
positions. Minera Alumbrera Limited’s principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.TO and principal place of business is DRC. Glencore owns 1,435,848,228 shares.
3 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of 
the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
177 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2015
% interest  
2014 Main activity
Metals and minerals (continued)
AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Lead production
Portovesme S.r.L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Lead production
Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation (Pty) Limited Namibia 80.1 80.1 Zinc/Lead production
Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S.A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc/Lead production
Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Tin production
Energy products
Cumnock No. 1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Enex Foydell Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 78.0 78.0 Coal production
Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production
United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production
Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Optimum Coal Holdings (Pty) Limited
4
South Africa 67.6 67.6 Coal production
Shanduka Coal (Pty) Ltd
5
South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production
Umcebo Mining (Pty) Ltd
6
South Africa 48.7 48.7 Coal production
Tavistock Collieries (Pty) Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Topley Corporation B.V.I. 100.0 100.0 Ship owner
Glencore Exploration Cameroon Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production
Glencore Exploration (EG) Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production
Petrochad (Mangara) Limited Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil exploration/production
Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Oil storage and bunkering
Agricultural products
Glencore Magdeburg GmbH Germany 100.0 0.0 Biofuel production
Glencore Biofuels AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Biofuel production
Moreno Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Usti Oilseed Group Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing LLC Hungary 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Zaklady Tluszczowe w Bodaczowie Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Viterra Group (incl. TRT) Canada/ Australia 100.0 100.0 Grain handling
Glencane Bioenergia S.A. Brazil 100.0 100.0 Sugar cane/ethanol production
Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo. Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling
4 Although Glencore holds 67.6% of the voting rights in Optimum, it has not been able to exercise control since August 2015, see note 3.
5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to 
appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to 
control the Board of Directors. Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements
178 Glencore Annual Report 2015
34. PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENT (continued)
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2015
% interest  
2014 Main activity
Other operating and finance
Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Operations Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Finance (Bermuda) Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Finance (Europe) S.A. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance
Finges Investment B.V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore (Schweiz) AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Grain B.V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating
ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating
Principal joint ventures
7
Clermont Coal Mines Limited
8
Australia 25.1 25.1 Coal production
Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production
El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 44.0 44.0 Iron Ore production
Principal joint operations
9
Pentland Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration
Redrock Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration
Togara North Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal exploration
Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration
Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production
Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production
Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production
Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production
Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia 80.0 80.0 Coal production
Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production
Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production
Ravensworth Underground Mine Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production
Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production
Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production
United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production
7 The principal joint arrangements are accounted for as joint ventures as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely control the entities.
8 The Group’s effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
9  Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles. Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
179 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2015
% interest  
2014 Main activity
Principal joint operations (continued)
ARM Coal (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production
Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production
Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production
Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production
Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 37.0 37.0 Platinum production
Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production
Principal associates
Renova S.A. Argentina 50.0 50.0 Biofuel production
Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production
Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 29.7 29.7 Coal terminal
Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd Australia 15.5 15.5 Coal terminal
Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 26.7 Coal terminal
Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.4 28.6 Copper production
Century Aluminum Company
10
USA 47.5 46.5 Diversified production
Terminal de Grãos Ponta da Montanha (Barcarena) Brazil 49.9 0.0 Grain terminal
Russneft Group
11
Russia 0.0 40.0 – 49.0 Oil production
Lonmin plc
12
UK 0.0 24.5 Platinum production
Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production
Compania Minera Antamina S.A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc/Copper production
Recylex S.A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc/Lead production
Other investments
United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production
OAO NK Russneft
11
Russia 46.0 0.0 Oil production
Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. Peru 7.3 7.3 Zinc production
10 Represents the Group’s economic interest in Century, comprising 42.9% (2014: 41.8%) voting interest and 4.6% non-voting interest (2014: 4.7%). Century is publicly traded on 
NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
11 In November 2015, Glencore effected the debt to equity conversion with respect to Russneft, see notes 10 and 11. Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in 
Russneft, it is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
12 In June 2015, Glencore completed an in specie distribution of the stake in Lonmin plc, see note 3. 180 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
181 Glossary
185 Production by quarter – Q4 2014 to Q4 2015
192 Resources and reserves
201 Shareholder information
202 Forward looking statements
In this section
Additional information 181 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Available committed liquidity
1
US$ million 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,914 3,066
Headline committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 15,250 15,300
Amount drawn under syndicated revolving credit facilities (2,994) (7 ,933)
Amounts drawn under U.S. commercial paper programme (15) (813)
Total 15,155 9,620
1 Presented on an adjusted reported measure basis.
Current capital employed
Current capital employed is current assets less accounts payable, current deferred income, current provisions, current other 
financial liabilities and income tax payable.
Funds from operations (“FFO”)
FFO comprises cash provided by operating activities before working capital changes, less tax and net interest payments plus 
dividends received and certain other expenses, comprising a legal settlement and net incremental metal leak costs incurred 
in 2015.
Readily marketable inventories
Readily marketable inventories (“RMI”), comprising the core inventories which underpin and facilitate Glencore’s marketing 
activities, represent inventories, that in Glencore’s assessment, are readily convertible into cash in the short term due to their 
liquid nature, widely available markets and the fact that price risk is covered either by a forward physical sale or hedge 
transaction. Glencore regularly assesses the composition of these inventories and their applicability, relevance and 
availability to the marketing activities. As at 31 December 2015, $15,356 million (2014: $19,226 million) of inventories were 
considered readily marketable. This comprises $10,928 million (2014: $16,297 million) of inventories carried at fair value less 
costs of disposal and $4,428 million (2014: $2,929 million) carried at the lower of cost or net realisable value. During 2015, 
Glencore reassessed the RMI categorisation and eligibility of certain inventories held by the Group’s metals’ smelting 
operations. Given the highly liquid nature of these inventories, which represent a significant share of current assets, the 
Group believes it is appropriate to consider them together with cash equivalents in analysing Group net debt levels and 
computing certain debt coverage ratios and credit trends.
Glossary  182 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Glossary
Reconciliation of selected reported financial information to those applying the proportionate 
consolidation method to certain associates and joint ventures
For internal reporting and analysis, management evaluates the performance of Antamina copper/zinc mine (34% owned), 
Cerrejón coal mine (33% owned) and the Collahuasi copper mine (44% owned) under the proportionate consolidation 
method reflecting Glencore’s proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of these investments. 
Below are reconciliations of selected reported financial information to those of applying the proportionate consolidation 
method to these investments. 
Cash flow related adjustments
US$ million
Reported 
measure
Adjustment for 
proportionate 
consolidation
Adjusted 
reported 
measure
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 7,454 – 7,454
Addback EBITDA of certain associates and joint ventures –995 995
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 7,454 995 8,449
Legal settlement and incremental metal leak costs included above (via statement of income – refer to note 5) 264 – 264
Income taxes paid (865) (207) (1,072)
Interest received 119 – 119
Interest paid (1,203) (1) (1,204)
Dividend received from associates and joint ventures 428 (369) 59
Funds from operations (FFO) 6,197 418 6,615
Net working capital changes (excluding silver streaming proceeds) 6,625 (40) 6,585
Silver streaming proceeds 900 – 900
Payments of non-current advances and loans 188 (87) 101
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries (318) – (318)
Net cash received from disposal of subsidiaries 212 – 212
Purchase of investments (236) – (236)
Proceeds from sale of investments 41 – 41
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (5,372) (298) (5,670)
Payments for exploration and evaluation (147) – (147)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 115 14 129
Net margin call in respect of financing related hedging activities (618) – (618)
Return of capital/distributions to non-controlling interests (95) – (95)
Purchases of own shares (272) – (272)
Share issuance 2,444 – 2,444
Distributions paid to equity holders of the parent (2,328) – (2,328)
Legal settlement and incremental metal leak costs (refer above) (264) – (264)
Cash movement in net funding 7,072 7 7,079 183 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Net funding/debt at 31 December 2015
US$ million
Reported 
measure
Adjustment for 
proportionate 
consolidation
Adjusted 
reported 
measure
Non-current borrowings 32,932 89 33,021
Current borrowings 11,117 21 11,138
Total borrowings 44,049 110 44,159
Less: cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (2,746) (168) (2,914)
Net funding 41,303 (58) 41,245
Less: Readily marketable inventories (15,356) – (15,356)
Net debt 25,947 (58) 25,889
Net funding/debt at 31 December 2014
US$ million
Reported 
measure
Adjustment for 
proportionate 
consolidation
Adjusted 
reported 
measure
Non-current borrowings 40,688 39 40,727
Current borrowings 12,005 92 12,097
Total borrowings 52,693 131 52,824
Less: cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (2,855) (211) (3,066)
Net funding 49,838 (80) 49,758
Less: Readily marketable inventories (19,226) – (19,266)
Net debt 30,612 (80) 30,532 184 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Glossary
Reconciliation of net exceptional and significant charges attributable to equity holders 2015
US$ million
Gross 
significant 
charges
Non-
controlling 
interests’ 
share
Equity 
holders’ 
share
(Losses)/Gains on disposals and investments
1
(994) – (994)
Impairments
2
(7 ,120) 2,651 (4,469)
Loss on metal leak
2
(235) 94 (141)
Legal settlement
2
(89) – (89)
Other expenses including restructuring and closure costs
2
(154) 44 (110)
Net exceptional charges attributable to equity holders (8,592) 2,789 (5,803)
Other significant items including FX movements, mark-to-market movements
on investments and taxation adjustments (503) – (503)
Total significant items (9,095) 2,789 (6,306)
1 See note 3 of the financial statements.
2 See note 4 of the financial statements.
Reconciliation of tax expense 2015
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities Total
Adjusted EBIT, pre-significant items 2,464 (292) 2,172
Interest expense allocation (153) (1,432) (1,585)
Adjustments for:
Certain associates and joint ventures’ net finance costs –(3) (3)
Share of income in associates and dividend income (110) 45 (65)
Allocated profit before tax for the basis of tax calculation 2,201 (1,682) 519
Applicable tax rate 10.0% 25.0% (38.5%)
Pre-significant tax expense/(credit) 220 (420) (200)
US$ million
Pre-
significant 
tax expense
Significant 
items tax
Total tax 
expense
Tax (credit)/expense on a proportionate consolidation basis (200) 460 260
Adjustment in respect of certain associates and joint ventures’ tax (162) – (162)
Tax (credit)/expense on the basis of the income statement (362) 460 98
Reconciliation of tax expense 2014
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities Total
Adjusted EBIT, pre-significant items 2,790 3,916 6,706
Interest expense allocation (227) (1,465) (1,692)
Adjustments for:
Certain associates and joint ventures’ net finance costs – (14) (14)
Share of income in associates and dividend income (35) (83) (118)
Allocated profit before tax for the basis of tax calculation 2,528 2,354 4,882
Applicable tax rate 10.0% 25.0% 17.2%
Pre-significant tax expense 253 589 842
US$ million
Pre-significant 
tax expense
Las Bambas 
disposal 
Other 
significant  
items
Total tax 
expense
Tax expense on a proportionate consolidation basis 842 531 779 2,152
Adjustment in respect of certain associates and joint ventures’ tax (343) – – (343)
Tax expense on the basis of the income statement 499 531 779 1,809 185 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Metals and minerals
Production from own sources – Total
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Total Copper kt 397.4 350.7 380.2 396.6 374.7 1,502.2 1,546.0 (3) (6)
Total Zinc kt 388.8 356.2 374.1 396.8 317.7 1,444.8 1,386.5 4 (18)
Total Lead kt 84.2 75.8 70.4 82.3 69.2 297.7 307.5 (3) (18)
Total Nickel kt 25.9 23.8 25.1 19.8 27.5 96.2 100.9 (5) 6
Total Gold
2
koz 276 208 220 261 275 964 992 (3) –
Total Silver
2
koz 9,552 8,197 8,376 10,040 9,979 36,592 35,530 3 4
Total Cobalt kt 5.0 4.4 5.6 6.8 6.2 23.0 20.7 11 24
Total Ferrochrome kt 356 385 371 316 390 1,462 1,295 13 10
Total Platinum
2
koz 46 42 47 36 33 158 173 (9) (28)
Total Palladium
2
koz 52 55 60 42 45 202 199 2 (13)
Total Rhodium
2
koz 45553 18 19 (5) (25)
Total Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 5.6 5.3 4.6 5.5 5.5 20.9 20.8 – (2)
Production from own sources – Copper assets
1
Q4 
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
African Copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani, Sable)
Katanga Copper metal
3
kt 42.8 37 .1 40.1 36.5 – 113.7 158.0 (28) (100)
Cobalt kt 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.1 – 2.9 2.8 4 (100)
Mutanda Copper metal
3
kt 46.5 51.6 53.9 55.5 55.1 216.1 197.1 10 18
Cobalt
4
kt 3.2 2.6 3.7 4.9 5.3 16.5 14.4 15 66
Mopani Copper metal kt 31.4 22.0 27.8 29.5 12.8 92.1 109.9 (16) (59)
African Copper – total production including third party feed
Mopani Copper metal kt 52.9 51.5 51.0 51.4 30.9 184.8 185.1 – (42)
Sable Copper metal kt – – – – – – 4.9 (100) n.m.
 Cobalt
4
kt 0.1––––– 0.5 (100) (100)
Total Copper metal
3
kt 120.7 110.7 121.8 121.5 67.9 421.9 465.0 (9) (44)
Total Cobalt
4
kt 4.1 3.5 4.6 6.0 5.3 19.4 17.2 13 29
Collahuasi
5
Copper metal kt 4.0 2.9 2.9 2.6 1.4 9.8 11.0 (11) (65)
Copper in concentrates kt 48.6 43.1 46.4 40.9 60.2 190.6 196.0 (3) 24
Silver in concentrates koz 591 534 587 621 1,086 2,828 2,476 14 84
Antamina
6
Copper in concentrates kt 28.3 27.8 29.0 36.4 38.6 131.8 116.4 13 36
Zinc in concentrates kt 19.4 16.2 19.0 24.5 19.6 79.3 71.2 11 1
Silver in concentrates koz 984 969 1,239 1,961 1,818 5,987 4,049 48 85
Other South America (Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui)
Alumbrera Copper in concentrates kt 33.0 11.2 10.0 14.8 25.8 61.8 102.6 (40) (22)
Gold in concentrates  
and in doré koz 110 42 41 45 68 196 317 (38) (38)
Silver in concentrates  
and in doré koz 251 105 86 117 190 498 766 (35) (24)
Lomas Bayas Copper metal kt 15.9 17.2 17.6 16.8 19.5 71.1 66.6 7 23
Production by quarter – Q4 2014 to Q4 2015 186 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Production by quarter – Q4 2014 to Q4 2015
Metals and minerals
Production from own sources – Copper assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Antapaccay Copper in concentrates kt 37.9 37.8 49.4 65.0 49.9 202.1 167.1 21 32
Gold in concentrates koz 15 14 27 45 36 122 69 77 140
Silver in concentrates koz 234 232 298 428 357 1,315 1,048 25 53
Punitaqui Copper in concentrates kt 2.8 2.7 2.0 1.4 2.0 8.1 11.4 (29) (29)
Silver in concentrates koz 28 28 28 24 25 105 87 21 (11)
Punitaqui – total production including third party feed
Copper in concentrates kt 2.9 2.8 2.2 2.7 2.6 10.3 11.6 (11) (10)
Silver in concentrates koz 29 30 30 35 28 123 89 38 (3)
Total Copper metal kt 15.9 17.2 17.6 16.8 19.5 71.1 66.6 7 23
Total Copper in 
concentrates kt 73.7 51.7 61.4 81.2 77.7 272.0 281.1 (3) 5
Total Gold in  
concentrates and in doré koz 125 56 68 90 104 318 386 (18) (17)
Total Silver in  
concentrates and in doré koz 513 365 412 569 572 1,918 1,901 1 12
Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar)
Mount Isa, Ernest Copper metal kt 55.9 51.3 50.7 48.6 55.0 205.6 209.5 (2) (2)
Henry, Townsville Gold koz 16 21 18 27 24 90 62 45 50
Silver koz 222 261 263 291 412 1,227 941 30 86
Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville – total production including third party feed
Copper metal kt 73.5 70.5 73.3 72.4 72.5 288.7 292.2 (1) (1)
Gold koz 23 28 38 44 37 147 80 84 61
Silver koz 480 550 637 498 455 2,140 2,744 (22) (5)
Cobar Copper in concentrates kt 14.4 12.8 12.0 12.3 13.7 50.8 49.6 2 (5)
Silver in concentrates koz 121 113 126 124 133 496 445 11 10
Total Copper kt 55.9 51.3 50.7 48.6 55.0 205.6 209.5 (2) (2)
Total Copper in 
concentrates kt 14.4 12.8 12.0 12.3 13.7 50.8 49.6 2 (5)
Total Gold koz 16 21 18 27 24 90 62 45 50
Total Silver koz 343 374 389 415 545 1,723 1,386 24 59
Total Copper department
Total Copper kt 361.5 317.5 341.8 360.3 334.0 1,353.6 1,395.2 (3) (8)
Total Cobalt kt 4.1 3.5 4.6 6.0 5.3 19.4 17.2 13 29
Total Zinc kt 19.4 16.2 19.0 24.5 19.6 79.3 71.2 11 1
Total Gold koz 141 77 86 117 128 408 448 (9) (9)
Total Silver koz 2,431 2,242 2,627 3,566 4,021 12,456 9,812 27 65 187 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Production from own sources – Zinc assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Kazzinc
Zinc metal kt 52.3 46.2 43.0 52.8 51.4 193.4 199.3 (3) (2)
Lead metal kt 7.5 4.9 3.1 10.2 8.1 26.3 25.7 2 8
Copper metal kt 12.3 11.2 12.8 13.3 14.6 51.9 46.8 11 19
Gold koz 126 122 125 135 138 520 506 3 10
Silver koz 1,178 755 563 1,289 1,046 3,653 4,273 (15) (11)
Kazzinc – total production including third party feed
Zinc metal kt 77.2 75.1 75.5 76.6 77.3 304.5 304.5 – –
Lead metal kt 32.0 29.2 23.4 32.6 34.6 119.8 126.5 (5) 8
Copper metal kt 16.1 13.7 15.0 15.9 17.6 62.2 58.2 7 9
Gold koz 186 158 163 174 179 674 675 – (4)
Silver koz 7,776 7,422 6,780 8,008 7,839 30,049 25,018 20 1
Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River)
Mount Isa Zinc in concentrates kt 130.9 126.2 128.0 127.7 96.3 478.2 437.3 9 (26)
Lead in concentrates kt 45.6 41.1 42.4 44.9 34.6 163.0 170.2 (4) (24)
Silver in concentrates koz 1,877 1,770 1,817 1,510 1,427 6,524 6,858 (5) (24)
McArthur River Zinc in concentrates kt 70.1 66.8 73.0 78.9 54.0 272.7 224.3 22 (23)
Lead in concentrates kt 13.4 12.6 12.7 15.4 12.3 53.0 46.2 15 (8)
Silver in concentrates koz 489 437 359 500 428 1,724 1,461 18 (12)
Total Zinc in concentrates kt 201.0 193.0 201.0 206.6 150.3 750.9 661.6 13 (25)
Total Lead in concentrates kt 59.0 53.7 55.1 60.3 46.9 216.0 216.4 – (21)
Total Silver in concentrates koz 2,366 2,207 2,176 2,010 1,855 8,248 8,319 (1) (22)
North America (Matagami, Kidd, Brunswick, CEZ Refinery)
Matagami Zinc in concentrates kt 18.9 11.1 14.5 12.0 14.4 52.0 74.8 (30) (24)
Copper in concentrates kt 1.9 1.5 1.8 2.2 2.7 8.2 8.8 (7) 42
Kidd Zinc in concentrates kt 15.6 16.9 14.7 16.8 14.8 63.2 61.0 4 (5)
Copper in concentrates kt 9.2 8.5 9.2 10.5 11.9 40.1 38.5 4 29
Silver in concentrates koz 712 619 521 659 569 2,368 2,066 15 (20)
Total Zinc in concentrates kt 34.5 28.0 29.2 28.8 29.2 115.2 135.8 (15) (15)
Total Copper in 
concentrates kt 11.1 10.0 11.0 12.7 14.6 48.3 47.3 2 32
Total Silver in concentrates koz 712 619 521 659 569 2,368 2,066 15 (20) 188 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Production by quarter – Q4 2014 to Q4 2015
 Metals and minerals
Production from own sources – Zinc assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
North America – total production including third party feed
Brunswick Smelter Lead metal kt 21.5 13.5 17.7 18.7 20.9 70.8 74.6 (5) (3)
Silver metal koz 6,125 4,650 5,597 5,950 5,157 21,354 15,824 35 (16)
CEZ Refinery
7
Zinc metal kt 17.8 17.0 16.7 16.5 18.0 68.2 65.5 4 1
Other Zinc (AR Zinc, Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, Rosh Pinah, Perkoa)
Zinc metal kt 5.0 3.4 8.5 8.5 5.7 26.1 23.2 13 14
Zinc in concentrates kt 76.6 69.4 73.4 75.6 61.5 279.9 295.4 (5) (20)
Lead metal kt 3.2 2.4 3.5 3.3 3.5 12.7 11.7 9 9
Lead in concentrates kt 14.5 14.8 8.7 8.5 10.7 42.7 53.7 (20) (26)
Copper in concentrates kt 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.6 2.4 2.7 (11) 50
Silver metal koz 173 123 153 205 210 691 613 13 21
Silver in concentrates koz 2,581 2,105 2,158 2,176 2,127 8,566 9,825 (13) (18)
Other Zinc – total production including third party feed
Zinc metal kt 7.8 4.5 9.3 9.9 6.6 30.3 29.1 4 (15)
Zinc in concentrates kt 76.6 69.4 73.4 75.6 61.5 279.9 295.4 (5) (20)
Lead metal kt 3.2 2.43.5 3.33.5 12.7 11.7 9 9
Lead in concentrates kt 14.5 14.8 8.7 8.5 10.7 42.7 53.7 (20) (26)
Copper in concentrates kt 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.6 2.4 2.7 (11) 50
Silver metal koz 173 123 153 205 210 691 613 13 21
Silver in concentrates koz 2,581 2,105 2,158 2,176 2,128 8,567 9,825 (13) (18)
Total Zinc department
Total Zinc kt 369.4 340.0 355.1 372.3 298.1 1,365.5 1,315.3 4 (19)
Total Lead kt 84.2 75.8 70.4 82.3 69.2 297.7 307.5 (3) (18)
Total Copper kt 23.8 21.7 24.4 26.7 29.8 102.6 96.8 6 25
Total Gold koz 126 122 125 135 138 520 506 3 10
Total Silver koz 7,010 5,809 5,571 6,339 5,807 23,526 25,096 (6) (17) 189 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Production from own sources – Nickel assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
%
Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk)
Nickel metal kt 12.5 13.5 12.5 7.6 15.5 49.1 51.3 (4) 24
Nickel in concentrates kt 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.6 (17) (50)
Copper metal kt 3.8 4.1 4.0 2.9 3.9 14.9 15.7 (5) 3
Copper in concentrates kt 8.3 7.4 10.0 6.7 7.0 31.1 38.3 (19) (16)
Cobalt metal kt 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8 – –
Gold
2
koz 9 8999 35 37 (5) –
Silver
2
koz 111 146 178 135 151 610 622 (2) 36
Platinum
2
koz 22 22 22 15 17 76 82 (7) (23)
Palladium
2
koz 39 44 48 30 35 157 149 5 (10)
Rhodium
2
koz 1 211154 25 –
Integrated Nickel Operations – total production including third party feed
Nickel metal kt 23.1 22.5 22.6 22.9 23.2 91.2 90.5 1 –
Nickel in concentrates kt 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.7 (14) –
Copper metal kt 9.5 8.9 9.1 9.6 7.9 35.5 35.8 (1) (17)
Copper in concentrates kt 10.1 9.3 11.8 8.3 8.8 38.2 48.0 (20) (13)
Cobalt metal kt 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.9 3.1 3.6 (14) –
Gold
2
koz 12 11 13 13 13 50 54 (7) 8
Silver
2
koz 177 247 302 244 253 1,046 1,058 (1) 43
Platinum
2
koz 31 30 30 20 26 106 116 (9) (16)
Palladium
2
koz 61 63 70 50 59 242 243 – (3)
Rhodium
2
koz 2 212166– (50)
Murrin Murrin
Total Nickel metal kt 9.2 7.9 9.8 9.3 10.5 37.5 36.4 3 14
Total Cobalt metal kt 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.7 2.8 2.7 4 –
Murrin Murrin – total production including third party feed
Total Nickel metal kt 11.2 9.5 12.4 12.0 12.8 46.7 44.1 6 14
Total Cobalt metal kt 0.7 0.7 0.9 0.8 0.9 3.3 2.9 14 29
Koniambo Nickel in ferronickel kt 4.0 2.2 2.7 2.8 1.4 9.1 12.6 (28) (65)
Total Nickel department
Total Nickel kt 25.9 23.8 25.1 19.8 27.5 96.2 100.9 (5) 6
Total Copper kt 12.1 11.5 14.0 9.6 10.9 46.0 54.0 (15) (10)
Total Cobalt kt 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.8 0.9 3.6 3.5 3 –
Total Gold koz 9 8999 35 37 (5) –
Total Silver koz 111 146 178 135 151 610 622 (2) 36
Total Platinum koz 22 22 22 15 17 76 82 (7) (23)
Total Palladium koz 39 44 48 30 35 157 149 5 (10)
Total Rhodium koz 1211154 25 – 190 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Production by quarter – Q4 2014 to Q4 2015
Metals and minerals
Production from own sources – Ferroalloys assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Ferrochrome
8
kt 356 385 371 316 390 1,462 1,295 13 10
PGM
9
Platinum koz 24 20 25 21 16 82 91 (10) (33)
Palladium koz 13 11 12 12 10 45 50 (10) (23)
Rhodium koz 33442 13 15 (13) (33)
Gold koz – 1–––11– n.m.
 4E koz 40 35 41 37 28 141 157 (10) (30)
Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 5.6 5.3 4.6 5.5 5.5 20.9 20.8 – (2)
Total production – Custom metallurgical assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Copper (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR)
Copper metal kt 117.8 115.7 101.2 95.1 121.7 433.7 433.8 – 3
Copper anode kt 126.7 125.1 119.8 134.8 123.1 502.8 493.7 2 (3)
Zinc (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva, Nordenham, Northfleet)
Zinc metal kt 196.1 194.3 195.8 197.9 200.8 788.8 781.8 1 2
Lead metal kt 39.8 50.0 44.5 53.8 50.9 199.2 177.4 12 28
Silver koz 2,106 2,597 2,546 2,735 3,342 11,220 9,482 18 59
Ferroalloys
Ferromanganese kt 29 35 34 33 44 146 116 26 52
Silicon Manganese kt 28 28 27 25 18 98 108 (9) (36)
Aluminium (Sherwin Alumina)
Alumina kt 291 300 281 282 312 1,175 1,382 (15) 7
1  Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, except as stated.
2  INO produces gold, silver and PGM, incidental to its main products of nickel and copper, which were previously excluded from Glencore production reports.  
Details have now been included to provide a better understanding of the business and historical periods have been updated accordingly.
3  Copper metal includes copper contained in copper concentrates and blister.
4  Cobalt contained in concentrates and hydroxides.
5  The Group’s pro-rata share of Collahuasi production (44%).
6  The Group’s pro-rata share of Antamina production (33.75%).
7  The Group’s pro-rata share of CEZ production (25%).
8  The Group’s attributable 79.5% share of the Glencore-Merafe Chrome Venture.
9  Consolidated 100% of Eland and 50% of Mototolo. 191 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Energy Products
Production from own sources – Coal assets
1
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Australian coking coal mt 1.4 1.5 1.2 1.5 1.7 5.9 6.0 (2) 21
Australian semi-soft coal mt 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.9 0.9 3.6 3.5 3 (10)
Australian thermal coal (export) mt 12.2 12.5 11.7 14.6 13.6 52.4 54.6 (4) 11
Australian thermal coal (domestic) mt 1.2 0.8 0.9 1.2 1.0 3.9 5.4 (28) (17)
South African thermal coal (export) mt 6.0 5.7 5.3 5.2 3.5 19.7 23.4 (16) (42)
South African thermal coal (domestic) mt 5.7 5.7 5.6 4.3 1.7 17.3 22.7 (24) (70)
Prodeco mt 4.4 5.4 4.7 3.8 3.7 17 .6 19.5 (10) (16)
Cerrejón
2
mt 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.5 2.7 11.1 11.2 (1) (10)
Total Coal department mt 34.9 35.6 33.1 34.0 28.8 131.5 146.3 (10) (17)
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis except for joint ventures, where the Group’s attributable share of production is included.
2 The Group’s pro-rata share of Cerrejón production (33.3%).
Production from own sources – Oil assets
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Glencore entitlement interest basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 1,267 1,216 1,263 1,220 1,238 4,937 5,072 (3) (2)
Chad kbbl 968 1,352 1,463 1,520 1,297 5,632 2,279 147 34
Total Oil department kbbl 2,235 2,568 2,726 2,740 2,535 10,569 7,351 44 13
Gross basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 6,064 5,598 5,849 5,841 5,651 22,939 24,232 (5) (7)
Chad kbbl 1,326 1,849 2,000 2,077 1,773 7,699 4,284 80 34
Total Oil department kbbl 7,390 7,447 7,849 7,918 7,424 30,638 28,516 7 –
Agricultural Products
Processing/production data
Q4  
2014 
Q1 
2015 
Q2 
2015 
Q3 
2015 
Q4 
2015 2015 2014 
Change
2015 vs
2014
%
Change
Q4 15 vs
Q4 14
 %
Farming kt 190 33 99 448 124 704 762 (8) (35)
Crushing kt 1,471 955 1,747 1,740 1,627 6,069 5,664 7 11
Long-term toll agreement kt – – 130 92 62 284 206 38 n.m.
Biodiesel kt 205 109 139 164 144 556 757 (27) (30)
Rice milling kt 30 47 44 83 32 206 230 (10) 7
Wheat milling kt 231 236 250 254 236 976 1,013 (4) 2
Sugarcane processing kt 416 – 702 1,273 776 2,751 2,231 23 87
Total Agricultural products kt 2,543 1,380 3,111 4,054 3,001 11,546 10,863 6 18 192 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
The resource and reserve data in the following tables comprise summary extracts of the Glencore Resources and Reserves 
report as at 31 December 2015, as published on the Glencore website on 11 February 2016. The Glencore Resources and 
Reserves report was publicly reported, as appropriate for individual components, in accordance with the 2012 edition of the 
Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (JORC Code), the 2007 edition 
(as amended July 2009) of the South African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (SAMREC), the 
Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves (2014 edition) 
and the Petroleum Resources Management System (PRMS) for reporting of oil and natural gas reserves and resources.
Data is reported as at 31 December 2015, unless otherwise noted. For comparison purposes, data for 2014 has been included. 
Metric units are used throughout, and all data is presented on a 100% asset basis with the exception of Oil assets which are 
shown on a working interest basis. All tonnage information has been rounded to reflect the relative uncertainty in the 
estimates; there may therefore be small differences in the totals. 
Copper mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral  
Resources
Measured and Indicated 
Resources
Inferred  
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
African copper 
Katanga (Mt) 14 31 194 242 207 273 200 168
Copper (%) 3.53 4.23 3.53 3.94 3.53 3.98 3.81 2.41
Cobalt (%) 0.49 0.58 0.52 0.45 0.52 0.46 0.43 0.31
Mutanda (Mt) 242 226 197 151 439 377 221 209
Copper (%) 1.57 1.60 1.06 1.21 1.34 1.45 0.79 0.89
Cobalt (%) 0.63 0.56 0.39 0.49 0.52 0.53 0.23 0.32
Mopani (Mt) 199 184 71 65 270 249 80 86
Copper (%) 2.11 2.11 1.99 1.85 2.08 2.04 2.08 2.08
Cobalt (%) 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.07
Collahuasi (Mt) 791 712 4,310 4,183 5,102 4,896 4,876 5,060
Copper (%) 0.81 0.81 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.80 0.80
Molybdenum (%) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Antamina (Mt) 256 274 841 862 1,097 1,136 1,273 1,280
Copper (%) 0.93 0.90 0.90 0.88 0.91 0.89 0.90 0.84
Zinc (%) 0.70 0.71 0.82 0.86 0.79 0.82 0.68 0.66
Silver (g/t) 10.6 10.4 10.8 10.7 10.7 10.6 11.1 11.4
Molybdenum (%) 0.027 0.027 0.020 0.020 0.021 0.022 0.017 0.017
Other South 
America (Mt) 673 776 2,104 2,027 2,777 2,803 870 859
Copper (%) 0.39 0.42 0.40 0.41 0.40 0.42 0.37 0.37
Gold (g/t) 0.11 0.10 0.04 0.04 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.07
Silver (g/t) 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.6
Australia (Mt) 119 131 182 169 301 301 161 161
Copper (%) 1.89 1.94 1.36 1.39 1.57 1.63 1.1 1.1
Gold (g/t) 0.10 0.10 0.24 0.24 0.18 0.18 0.03 0.03
Silver (g/t) 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.8 0.9
Resources and reserves  193 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Copper mineral resources (continued)
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral  
Resources
Measured and Indicated 
Resources
Inferred  
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Other projects
1
(Mt) 534 530 1,549 1,545 2,083 2,075 2,479 2,670
(El Pachon, 
West Wall) Copper (%) 0.67 0.67 0.51 0.51 0.55 0.55 0.44 0.43
 Gold (g/t) – – 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.02
Silver (g/t) 2.4 2.4 1.4 1.4 1.7 1.6 1.1 1.3
Molybdenum (%) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Copper ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
African copper 
Katanga (Mt) 10 18 88 70 99 88
Copper (%) 3.62 3.51 3.94 4.14 3.91 4.01
Cobalt (%) 0.41 0.56 0.49 0.47 0.48 0.49
Mutanda (Mt) 114 138 43 63 157 201
Copper (%) 2.14 1.96 1.77 1.53 2.04 1.82
Cobalt (%) 0.85 0.73 0.69 0.67 0.81 0.71
Mopani (Mt) 114 120 30 32 144 152
Copper (%) 1.90 1.95 1.92 1.68 1.90 1.89
Cobalt (%) 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.08 0.08
Collahuasi (Mt) 516 482 2,607 2,773 3,123 3,255
Copper (%) 0.99 0.96 0.82 0.78 0.85 0.80
Molybdenum (%) 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Antamina (Mt) 191 210 407 437 598 647
Copper (%) 1.04 1.02 0.91 0.90 0.95 0.94
Zinc (%) 0.79 0.80 1.06 1.07 0.97 0.98
Silver (g/t) 11.0 11.2 10.5 10.4 10.6 10.7
Molybdenum (%) 0.028 0.027 0.020 0.021 0.023 0.023
Other South America (Mt) 490 665 740 725 1,230 1,390
Copper (%) 0.42 0.42 0.35 0.36 0.37 0.38
Gold (g/t) 0.07 0.12 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.09
Silver (g/t) 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.7
Australia (Mt) 34 35 59 69 93 104
Copper (%) 2.17 2.29 1.30 1.26 1.63 1.61
Gold (g/t) 0.19 0.19 0.42 0.40 0.34 0.33
Silver (g/t) 1.6 1.5 0.8 0.5 1.1 0.9
1 Tampakan was sold in 2015. 194 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Resources and reserves
Zinc mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral  
Resources
Measured and Indicated 
Resources
Inferred  
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Kazzinc
Kazzinc Gold (Mt) 61.5 85.6 22 48 83 133 36 15
Gold (g/t) 2.2 1.9 2.2 1.9 2.2 1.9 1.6 1.7
Kazzinc Polymetallic (Mt) 27.7 36.8 152 89 180 126 94 160
Zinc (%) 3.42 4.50 2.8 1.5 2.9 2.4 3 3
Lead (%) 0.89 1.26 1.1 0.3 1.1 0.5 0.7 0.8
Copper (%) 1.20 1.21 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.2
Silver (g/t) 36.0 41.4 17 15 20 23 28 14
Gold (g/t) 1.42 1.56 0.6 0.9 0.7 1.1 2 1
Australia
Mount Isa (Mt) 141 133 330 330 470 460 210 250
Zinc (%) 6.86 6.87 5.2 5.1 5.7 5.6 5 5
Lead (%) 4.26 4.18 2.9 2.9 3.3 3.3 3 3
Silver (g/t) 80.3 78.1 57 56 64 62 50 50
McArthur River (Mt) 118 126 60 61 180 190 – –
Zinc (%) 10.2 10.0 9.4 9.3 9.9 9.8 – –
Lead (%) 4.81 4.45 4.4 4.0 4.7 4.3 – –
Silver (g/t) 48.6 44.6 46 42 48 44 – –
North America
Zinc North America (Mt) 25.8 27.5 36 36 62 63 60 60
Zinc (%) 4.42 4.51 4.9 4.9 4.7 4.7 4 4
Lead (%) 0.41 0.39 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
Copper (%) 1.62 1.68 0.7 0.7 1.1 1.1 0.5 0.5
Silver (g/t) 48.2 49.5 107 107 83 82 140 140
Gold (g/t) 0.35 0.33 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2
Copper North America (Mt) 75.0 75.0 255 255 330 330 120 120
Copper (%) 0.39 0.39 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Gold (g/t) 0.16 0.16 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1
Other Zinc (Mt) 10.8 10.6 37 29 48 40 59 80
Zinc (%) 9.75 9.36 6.1 6.9 6.9 7.5 7 6
Lead (%) 2.61 2.11 1.0 1.7 1.4 1.8 1 1
Copper (%) 0.06 0.08 0.16 0.15 0.14 0.13 0.1 0.1
Silver (g/t) 89.7 111 81 99 83 102 24 55 195 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Zinc ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Kazzinc
Kazzinc Gold (Mt) 64.2 70.7 23 23 87 94
Gold (g/t) 2.0 2.20 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.2
Kazzinc Polymetallic (Mt) 14.4 18.1 15 17 30 36
Zinc (%) 2.80 3.35 5.5 5.4 4.2 4.4
Lead (%) 0.72 0.71 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7
Copper (%) 0.95 1.07 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9
Silver (g/t) 32.3 34.1 27 26 29 30
Gold (g/t) 1.15 1.12 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.0
Australia
Mount Isa (Mt) 30.5 40.8 47 45 78 86
Zinc (%) 8.27 7.55 7.1 7.2 7.5 7.4
Lead (%) 4.49 3.96 3.7 3.4 4.0 3.6
Silver (g/t) 77.9 67.5 64 58 69 63
McArthur River (Mt) 49.4 54.6 53 49 102 103
Zinc (%) 12.1 11.8 8.3 8.4 10 10
Lead (%) 5.66 5.39 4.0 3.9 4.8 4.7
Silver (g/t) 57.5 54.1 41 38 49 47
North America (Mt) 8.20 8.59 7.5 5.5 16 14
Zinc (%) 4.38 4.49 5.9 4.9 5.1 4.6
Copper (%) 1.91 1.95 1.4 1.6 1.7 1.8
Silver (g/t) 45.1 49.3 35 39 40 45
Gold (g/t) 0.05 0.04 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.1
Other Zinc (Mt) 3.49 4.76 16 17 20 22
Zinc (%) 11.4 9.14 7.4 7.6 8.1 8.0
Lead (%) 3.26 2.57 1.1 1.5 1.5 1.7
Copper (%) 0.02 0.08 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Silver (g/t) 80.1 88.4 69 64 71 69 196 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Resources and reserves
Nickel mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral  
Resources
Measured and Indicated 
Resources
Inferred  
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
INO (Mt) 15.6 16.2 31.4 27.7 47.0 43.9 33 39
Nickel (%) 2.59 2.35 2.76 2.69 2.70 2.56 2.5 2.6
Copper (%) 1.56 1.70 1.08 1.14 1.24 1.34 1.8 1.6
Cobalt (%) 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.1 0.1
Platinum (g/t) 1.00 0.98 0.69 0.66 0.79 0.78 1.0 1.0
Palladium (g/t) 1.54 1.48 1.30 1.15 1.37 1.28 1.8 1.7
Australia
1
(Mt) 167.3 184.1 79.0 72.2 246.3 256.3 18 12
Nickel (%) 1.01 1.03 0.99 0.99 1.00 1.02 0.94 0.94
Cobalt (%) 0.071 0.073 0.083 0.077 0.075 0.074 0.067 0.059
Koniambo (Mt) 18.1 20.0 29.1 46.0 47.2 66.0 95 84
Nickel (%) 2.48 2.55 2.42 2.44 2.44 2.48 2.5 2.5
Other Nickel
2
(Mt) 13.8 13.8 23.4 23.4 37.2 37.2 21 21
 (Kabanga) Nickel (%) 2.49 2.49 2.72 2.72 2.63 2.63 2.6 2.6
Copper (%) 0.34 0.34 0.36 0.36 0.35 0.35 0.3 0.3
Cobalt (%) 0.21 0.21 0.19 0.19 0.20 0.20 0.2 0.2
Platinum (g/t) 0.16 0.16 0.42 0.42 0.32 0.32 0.3 0.3
Palladium (g/t) 0.19 0.19 0.28 0.28 0.25 0.25 0.3 0.3
Nickel ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
INO (Mt) 10.9 12.9 10.6 7.1 21.4 20.0
Nickel (%) 1.95 1.94 2.47 2.25 2.21 2.05
Copper (%) 1.60 1.66 0.78 0.80 1.20 1.36
Cobalt (%) 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04
Platinum (g/t) 1.02 1.01 0.67 0.66 0.85 0.88
Palladium (g/t) 1.44 1.45 1.40 1.06 1.43 1.31
Australia (Mt) 151.6 160.4 39.9 40.0 191.6 200.4
Nickel (%) 0.97 0.97 0.96 0.96 0.97 0.97
Cobalt (%) 0.070 0.069 0.069 0.067 0.069 0.069
Koniambo (Mt) 14.2 16.2 20.9 42.5 35.1 58.7
Nickel (%) 2.33 2.50 2.29 2.30 2.30 2.35
1. Cosmos was sold in June 2015.
2. Falcondo was sold in August 2015.
    Araguaia was sold in September 2015. 197 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Ferroalloys mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral  
Resources
Measured and Indicated 
Resources
Inferred  
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Chrome (Mt) 122 126 98 90 220 215 300 238
Cr
2
O
3
 (%) 41.2 41.3 41.1 41.2 41.2 41.2 40 41
Vanadium (Mt) 48.85 24.89 38.7 20.2 87.6 45.1 95 84
V
2
O
5
 (%) 0.48 0.52 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
PGM (Mt) 85 89 26 26 111 115 83 83
3PGE + Gold (g/t) 4.37 4.36 3.09 3.09 4.09 4.09 4.3 4.3
Silica (Mt) – – 23.81 24.34 23.81 24.34 – –
SiO
2
 (%) – – 91 91 91 91 – –
Ferroalloys ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Chrome (Mt) 49 52 17 14 65 66
Cr
2
O
3
 (%) 33.5 33.8 32.6 31.0 33.3 33.2
Vanadium (Mt) 26.66 6.88 12.9 13.4 39.6 20.3
V
2
O
5
 (%) 0.48 0.52 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
PGM (Mt) 19 26 – 0.1 19 26
3PGE + Gold (g/t) 3.82 3.33 – 3.10 3.82 3.32
Silica (Mt) – – 2.15 2.38 2.15 2.38
SiO
2
 (%) – – 91 91 91 91 198 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Resources and reserves
Iron ore mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral  
Resources
Measured and Indicated 
Resources
Inferred  
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
El Aouj Mining  
Company S.A. (Mt) 470 470 1,435 1,435 1,905 1,905 2,520 2,520
 Iron (%) 36 36 36 36 36 36 35 35
Sphere Mauritania 
S.A. (Mt) 215 215 190 190 405 405 251 251
 (Askaf) Iron (%) 36 36 35 35 36 36 35 35
Sphere Lebtheinia 
S.A. (Mt) – – 2,180 2,180 2,180 2,180 560 560
 
Iron (%) – – 32 32 32 32 32 32
Jumelles Limited (Mt) 2,300 2,300 2,500 2,500 4,800 4,800 2,100 2,100
 (Zanaga) Iron (%) 34 34 30 30 32 32 31 31
Iron ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
El Aouj Mining  
Company S.A. (Mt) 380 370 551 385 931 755
Iron (%) 35 35 35 35 35 35
Sphere Mauritania S.A. (Mt) – 140 – 92 – 232
 (Askaf) Iron (%) – 36 – 34 – 35
Jumelles Limited (Mt) 770 770 1,290 1,290 2,070 2,070
 (Zanaga) Iron (%) 37 37 32 32 34 34 199 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Coal resources
Measured 
Coal Resources
Indicated 
Coal Resources
Inferred 
Coal Resources
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Australia
New South Wales Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) 3,170 3,242 2,869 2,678 5,271 5,121
Queensland Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) 3,028 3,008 3,373 3,234 8,269 8,190
South Africa
1
Thermal Coal (Mt) 2,914 2,916 1,151 1,148 435 436
Prodeco Thermal Coal (Mt) 185 200 220 240 70 70
Cerrejón Thermal Coal (Mt) 2,950 3,300 1,150 1,100 800 700
Canada projects Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) 45 45 113 113 130 130
 (Suska, Sukunka)
Coal reserves
Coal Reserves
Marketable 
Coal Reserves
Total Marketable 
Coal Reserves Proved Probable Proved Probable
Name of operation Commodity 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014
Australia
New South Wales Thermal Coal (Mt) 1,003 176 719 120 839 871
Coking Coal (Mt) 20 40 13 27 40 42
Queensland Thermal Coal (Mt) 1,132 412 894 326 1,220 1,376
Coking Coal (Mt) 102 62 67 41 108 164
South Africa
1
Thermal Coal (Mt) 748 334 477 193 670 701
Prodeco Thermal Coal (Mt) 120 80 120 80 200 270
Cerrejón Thermal Coal (Mt) 530 100 520 90 610 650
1 Optimum Coal was placed in business rescue proceedings in August 2015, resulting in the Group ceasing to have control over Optimum. In December, the business rescue practitioners 
reached agreement to sell the business, which is expected to close by H1 2016. Applicable coal resources and reserves have been removed from this report. 200 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Resources and reserves
Oil net reserves (Proven and Probable)
1
Working Interest Basis
Equatorial Guinea Chad Cameroon Total
Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf
Combined 
mmboe
31 December 2014 25 – 150 – – – 175 – 175
Revisions – –1 –– – 1–1
Acquisitions/
Divestments – –– –– – –––
Discoveries – – 21 – – – 21 – 21
Production (6) – (6) – – – (12) – (12)
31 December 2015 19 – 166 – – – 185 – 185
Net contingent resources (2C)
1
Working Interest Basis
Equatorial Guinea Chad Cameroon Total
Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf
Combined 
mmboe
31 December 2014 23 562 9 – 53 714 85 1,276 305
Revisions – –– –– – –––
Acquisitions/
Divestments – – – – (6) (119) (6) (119) (26)
Discoveries – –– –– – –––
31 December 2015 23 562 9 – 47 595 79 1,157 278
1 “Net” reserves or resources are equivalent to Glencore’s working interest in the asset/property. 201 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Glencore plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters in Switzerland and operations around the world.
Headquarters Baarermattstrasse 3
P .O. Box 777 
CH-6341 Baar 
Switzerland
Registered Office Queensway House
Hilgrove Street 
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE1 1ES
The Company has a primary quote on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and a secondary quote on both the 
Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx).
Share registrars
Jersey: Computershare Investor Services (Jersey) Limited 
Queensway House 
Hilgrove Street 
St Helier, Jersey 
JE1 1ES 
Channel Islands 
Tel.: +44 (0) 870 707 4040
Johannesburg: Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Ltd 
70 Marshall Street 
Johannesburg 
2001 South Africa 
Tel.: +27 (0) 11 370 5000
Hong Kong: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 
Hopewell Centre 46th Floor 
183 Queen’s Road East 
Wan Chai 
Hong Kong 
Tel.: +852 2862 8628
Enquiries Company Secretary 
John Burton 
john.burton@glencore.com
Glencore plc 
Baarermattstrasse 3 
CH-6340 Baar 
Switzerland 
Tel.: +41 41 709 2000 
Fax: +41 41 709 3000 
Email: info@glencore.com
 
 
Shareholder information 202 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Additional information
Forward looking statements
This document contains statements that are, or may be 
deemed to be, “forward looking statements” which are 
prospective in nature. These forward looking statements 
may be identified by the use of forward looking 
terminology, or the negative thereof such as “plans” , 
“expects” or “does not expect” , “is expected” , “continues” , 
“assumes” , “is subject to” , “budget” , “scheduled” , “estimates” , 
“aims” , “forecasts” , “risks” , “intends” , “positioned” , 
“predicts” , “anticipates” or “does not anticipate” , or 
“believes” , or variations of such words or comparable 
terminology and phrases or statements that certain actions, 
events or results “may” , “could” , “should” , “shall” , “would” , 
“might” or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved. 
Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the 
inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future 
expectations. Forward-looking statements are not based on 
historical facts, but rather on current predictions, 
expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, 
intentions and projections about future events, results of 
operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions  
of strategy. 
By their nature, forward looking statements involve known 
and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are 
beyond Glencore’s control. Forward looking statements are 
not guarantees of future performance and may and often  
do differ materially from actual results. Important factors 
that could cause these uncertainties include, but are not 
limited to those discussed in the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties section on pages 28 to 35.
Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, 
officers or advisers, provides any representation, assurance 
or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or 
implied in any forward-looking statements in this document 
will actually occur. You are cautioned not to place undue 
reliance on these forward-looking statements which only 
speak as of the date of this document. Other than in 
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations 
(including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
and the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and the Listing 
Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited), 
Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore and its 
affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation or 
undertaking to update or revise any forward looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise. This document shall not, under any 
circumstances, create any implication that there has been 
no change in the business or affairs of Glencore since the 
date of this document or that the information contained 
herein is correct as at any time subsequent to its date. 
No statement in this document is intended as a profit 
forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this 
document should be interpreted to mean that earnings per 
Glencore share for the current or future financial years 
would necessarily match or exceed the historical published 
earnings per Glencore share. 
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer 
or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to 
purchase or subscribe for any securities. The making of this 
document does not constitute a recommendation regarding 
any securities. Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
This report is printed on Cocoon Offset paper, made from 100% genuine
de-inked post-consumer waste which is FSC
®
 Certified and manufactured 
at a mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Printed by Principal Colour
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC
®
 Chain 
of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based. Glencore plc 
Baarermattstrasse 3 
CH-6340 Baar 
Switzerland 
Tel: +41 41 709 2000 
Fax: +41 41 709 3000 
E-mail: info@glencore.com
www.glencore.com
FRONT COVER IMAGE: 
Loading of a ship at Bolivar Port Facitilty, Colombia
