 2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 27 June 2015
STRONGER  
TOGETHER
THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 June 201 5  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 1
Our Chairman’s statement  
on page 4 
Our Group Chief Executive’s 
review on page 6 
Our Finance review  
on page 48 
•  Read about our markets  
on page 14 
•  Information on our 
corporate governance 
report from page 52 
•  See how we are managing 
our risks on page 34 
For more information about The Go-Ahead Group and our  
operating companies, visit: www.go-ahead.com 
SOCIAL MEDIA FOLLOW US ON:
 linkedin.com/company/The-Go-Ahead-Group-PLC 
 
 facebook.com/TheGoAheadGroupPLC 
 
 twitter.com/TheGoAheadGroup
OUR STRATEGY AND OUR 
INTEGRATED APPROACH
CONTENTS
GO-AHEAD ONLINE
OUR INTEGRATED APPROACH
Sustainability and corporate responsibility are integral to our 
strategy and the way we operate at every level of the business.  
This is our third integrated annual report which aims to present a 
comprehensive view of the Group. 
Our strategic priorities:
STRATEGIC REPORT
2 Our performance at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6  Group Chief Executive’s  
review and Q&A
10 Our business model
12 Our core business units
14 Our markets
17	 Our strategy and key  
performance indicators
34 Managing risk
40 Business review
48 Finance review
GOVERNANCE
52  Introduction to  
corporate governance
54 Board of directors 
56 Corporate governance report
70 Directors’ remuneration report
86 Directors’ report
87  Directors’ statement  
of responsibility
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88  Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of  
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
92 Consolidated income statement
94  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 
95  Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
96 Consolidated balance sheet 
98  Consolidated cashflow statement 
100 Critical accounting judgements
101  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
138  Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of  
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
139  Parent Company statement  
of comprehensive income
140  Parent Company statement  
of changes in equity
141 Parent Company balance sheet
142  Directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the Parent Company financial 
statements
143  Notes to the Parent Company 
financial statements
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
153  Shareholder information, financial 
calendar and cautionary statement
155 Corporate information
156 More information for investors
OUR STRATEGY AND  
BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model is a continuous  
cycle, supporting our strategy.  
Read more on page 10 
OUR BOARD
Our Board has a wide range  
of skills and experience. 
Read more on page 54 
GOVERNANCE
We are committed to maintaining  
a robust governance framework. 
Read more on page 56 
SOCIETY
T o run our 
companies in a 
safe, socially and 
environmentally 
responsible manner.
OUR PEOPLE
T o be a leading 
employer in the 
transport sector.
CUSTOMERS
T o provide high 
quality, locally 
focused passenger 
transport services.
FINANCE
T o run our business 
with strong financial 
discipline to 
deliver sustainable 
shareholder value.
Read more about our strategic priorities on page 17 
OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM DISCUSSES 
OUR RESUL TS, THE POSITION OF  
THE GROUP AND PROSPECTS FOR 
THE FUTURE 2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OVERVIEW
The Group has delivered good growth  
in revenue and operating profit during 
the year, with operating profit growth  
of 11. 1%. Supported by this performance, 
the Board is pleased to propose an 
increase in the final dividend of 5.5p per 
share up 6.5%, in line with the Group’s 
progressive dividend policy.  
We have also made good progress 
against our non-financial KPIs.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
• Overall profits up 11.1%, slightly ahead of our expectations  
as a result of a stronger performance in rail
• Record bus profits, up 6.6%
• Improvement in rail profits albeit at historically low margins
• Continued strong free cashflow and robust balance sheet
• Proposed full year dividend up 6.5% to 90.0p in line with our 
progressive policy
STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
• Continued progress in bus division with sector-leading 
customer satisfaction in regional bus operations
• Expect to deliver £100m of bus operating profit in 
2016/2017, a year later than originally anticipated
• Record passenger numbers in rail division
• Group’s net increase in contributions to the DfT in  
the year was £191.9m, up to £255.9m
• Challenging start in GTR – working closely with industry 
partners to improve performance and manage contract changes
• Submitted bids for Northern and TransPennine Express rail 
franchises and shortlisted for the London Overground contract
• Continue to explore selective opportunities in  
overseas markets
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
We report a single remuneration figure for executive directors which 
includes salary, annual performance-related bonus, long term incentive 
bonus and other benefits.
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group Chief Executive David Brown 2,163 1,960
Group Finance Director Keith Down 1,265 1,299
A large proportion of the executive directors’ remuneration is payable in 
shares. Half of the total annual performance-related bonus is awarded as 
deferred shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject to 
recovery and withholding provisions. Awards under the long term incentive 
plan (LTIP) are also made in shares, which further aligns the interests of  
our executive directors with those of our shareholders. A substantial part 
of executive directors’ remuneration is performance-related and linked to 
key performance indicators. The remuneration committee’s unanimous 
view was that the Group’s performance supported the executive directors’ 
remuneration this year. Overall operating profit rose 11.1% in the year  
to 27 June 2015 and the Group’s share price rose 13.9%. Over the three 
year period to the same date, the share price increase was 124.1%.
The remuneration above includes the vesting of the LTIP award from  
2012, which has rewarded the successful implementation of long term  
value strategic targets set three years ago.
For the next tranche of LTIP awards in November 2015, we are  
proposing a customer satisfaction measure recognising that providing  
high levels of customer service is fundamental to our success.
Our directors’ remuneration report can be found on page 70 
Carbon Trust  
Standard triple 
accreditation
£4.6m
Invested in  
training
90% 
Satisfaction 
Independent bus  
survey
1st
Fair Tax Mark  
in FTSE 350
Read more about our strategy and KPIs on page 17 
SOCIETY
OUR PEOPLE
CUSTOMERS
FINANCE
OUR PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE 
STRENGTH IN OUR RESULTS Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 3
Unless otherwise stated, references made to operating profit throughout this report exclude amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
Our regional bus and London bus operating divisions were previously referred to as deregulated bus and regulated bus.
1. Reduction since our 2007/08 baseline, calculated using conversion factors provided annually by the Government.
TOTAL REVENUE (£m) 
£3,215.2m
Group revenue rose £512.8m, or 19.0%, in the year 
with growth in all divisions. 14.6% of the increase 
is attributable to the introduction of the GTR rail 
franchise in September 2014. 
TOTAL OPERATING PROFIT (£m)
£114.7m +11.1% +19.0%
Group operating profit increased by £11.5m, or 
11.1%, ahead of the Board’s initial expectations. This 
strong performance was driven by our rail division. 
We refer to operating profit excluding the impact 
of one off charges and credits to show a clearer 
trend. Our operating profit after exceptional items 
and amortisation was £96.8m (2014: £109.5m).
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (p)
150.8p +1.5%
Adjusted earnings per share (3ps) rose by 2.2p, 
or 1.5%, reflecting increasing operating profit and 
taking the non-controlling interest in our rail division  
into account.
We use adjusted eps as a KPI as it excludes the 
impact of one off charges or credits in any year to 
provide a clearer trend. Our basic eps was 121.6p, 
down 25.9% due to the impact of exceptional costs in 
2015 and an exceptional credit in 2014 (see note 7).
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Rail London bus Regional bus
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
290.9 312.9 337.6 350.8 359.9
351.5
378.4
423.9
449.7 457.9
1,654.6
1,732.5
1,810.3
1, 901.9
2,397.4
0
11 12 13 14 15
Rail London bus Regional bus
120
100
80
60
40
33.7
35.4 36.4
41.9
46.7
33.4
34.8
38.8
41.6
42.3
48.0
40.0
11.5
19.7
25.7
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
200
150
100
135.2
141.9
117.6
148.6 150.8
50
0
11 12 13 14 15
Further to a 4.3% increase in the interim dividend, 
the Board is pleased to propose a final dividend 
of 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p), increasing the full 
year dividend to 90.0p (2014: 84.5p), up 5.5p  
or 6.5%. 
Y ear on year performance in this metric declined, 
largely due to the introduction of the GTR rail 
franchise, which has higher than Group average 
CO 2 emissions per passenger journey. Compared 
to our 2007/08 baseline data, overall Group CO 2 
emissions per passenger journey have improved 
9.3%, On a like for like basis, removing the impact 
of bus acquisitions and new rail franchises, since 
2007/08 the improvement is 15.9% against the 
same baseline year.
1
Our regional bus passenger satisfaction scores 
remain industry leading. The overall score in our 
rail division declined in the year, impacted by the 
significant infrastructure improvements taking  
place as part of the Government’s £6.5bn 
Thameslink Programme. 
DIVIDEND PAID AND PROPOSED  
PER SHARE (p)
90.0p +6.5%
REDUCTION IN CO
2
 EMISSIONS  
PER PASSENGER JOURNEY (%)
1
9.3% -2.9ppts
-2ppts
-1ppts
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (%)
100
80
60
82
91
83
90
78
90
92
76
90
77
40
20
0
13
Rail Regional bus
11 12 14 15
100
80
60
81.0 81.0 81.0
84.5
90.0
40
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
15
12
9
12.3
14.0
15.0
12.2
9.3
6
3
0
11 12 13 14 15
Regional bus 90%
Rail 76% 4 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“ The effective stewardship of the Group  
is enhanced by the wealth of experience 
and range of expertise of its members. 
Together, we are committed to building  
a stronger Group for the future and 
delivering long term sustainable value  
to our shareholders and improving  
services for our customers.” 
Andrew Allner, 
Chairman
GOVERNANCE
Read more about our relations 
with shareholders  
on page 62 
Our aim is to make a 
positive contribution to the 
communities in which we 
operate and wider society.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 5
I would like to thank Keith for the significant contribution he has made in his 
four years with the Group. The process to appoint a successor is well underway. 
There have been no other changes to the composition of the Board.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND EVALUATION
In my role as Chairman, I strive to ensure your Board is highly effective 
and believe that regular and thorough review and evaluation aid continual 
development of the Board and its members. 
This year the Board made good progress in delivering against its 2014/15 
priorities and has clear objectives for the year ahead, which are detailed on  
page 53.
In addition to an internal Board evaluation, led by the Group Company 
Secretary, in the first half of the year, an independent external evaluation of the 
Board took place later in the year. Building upon the internal review, the theme 
of this review was forward-looking and developmental. The review found good 
Board dynamics, open dialogue and constructive challenge, with a high standard 
of governance, and made a number of recommendations, including greater  
top-down consideration of risk and stakeholder management. View 
recommendations from the evaluation in the corporate governance report on page 61 
OUR PEOPLE ARE STRONGER TOGETHER
Go-Ahead’s people are its most valuable asset. During my regular visits to our 
operating companies, and through my attendance at the Group’s management 
conferences, I am continually impressed by the professionalism and dedication of 
our teams who are committed to delivering good services for our passengers, 
from the executive management cascading all through the organisation.
Go-Ahead has always operated within a devolved management structure.  
We believe this is a real strength for the Group, empowering our people 
to make local decisions and respond quickly to the changing needs of the 
passengers and communities we serve. We trust our experienced management 
teams to run our companies effectively, while having robust processes in place 
to ensure accountability back to executive directors and the Board. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our people who work  
hard every day to provide good services to our passengers and create value  
for our shareholders. View our people information on page 29 
A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION
As a commercial organisation, our aim is to generate value for our shareholders 
while fulfilling our wider responsibilities to other stakeholders. We support 
economic growth, enabling over one billion passenger journeys each year, 
carrying millions of people to work, schools and colleges, shops and leisure 
activities every day. We have over 26,000 UK employees and also make a 
significant contribution to the economy through the taxes we pay. We are 
proud to be one of only two FTSE 350 organisations to be certified with the 
Fair T ax Mark for responsible tax behaviour. Go-Ahead’s companies play a key 
role in the communities they serve and are vital to the future of UK public 
transport. Read about our relations with stakeholders on page 62 
LOOKING FORWARD
The year ahead will bring both challenge and opportunity. We have a strong 
management team in place and I am confident that together we will create 
further value by continuing to deliver against the Group’s strategic priorities.
As a Group, our focus remains on delivering the best possible experience  
for our customers and the coming year will see the introduction of new 
initiatives across our businesses to further enhance the customer experience.
The Group has a stable portfolio of businesses upon which to build and a clear 
strategy for the future. I look forward to the next stage of Go-Ahead’s journey.
Andrew Allner, 
Chairman
2 September 2015
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
This has been another significant year for Go-Ahead and the Group remains 
well placed to manage the challenges we face and embrace the opportunities 
that arise. During the year, our strategy, underpinned by our stable business 
model, has delivered increased shareholder value.
PERFORMANCE
The Group delivered good financial results in the year. Our bus division 
achieved its highest ever operating profit, despite a number of headwinds,  
and our rail division exceeded the Board’s initial expectations. 
The first half of the year saw the start of significant new rail contracts, including 
GTR, the UK’s largest franchise. This has faced operational issues and constraints 
associated with the Thameslink Programme from the outset. 
Demanding economic and operating conditions in some of our bus markets 
have resulted in a more testing trading environment and the Board now 
expects to achieve the £100m bus operating profit target in 2016/17, a year 
later than the initial target date. Read about the performance of our bus and rail  
divisions from pages 40 to 47 
DIVIDEND
The Group is in a good financial position with strong cash generation and 
a robust balance sheet, supporting our progressive dividend policy. We are 
committed to this policy, recognising the importance of the dividend to the 
investment decision of many of our shareholders. 
The Board was pleased to increase the full year dividend by 4.3% in the last 
financial year and, this year, proposes an increase of 6.5% to 90.0p per share 
(2014: 84.5p). A final dividend of 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) is proposed, 
payable on 13 November 2015 to shareholders registered at the close of 
business on 30 October 2015.
The Group’s dividend policy is to maintain dividend cover of approximately  
two times adjusted earnings, on a pre IAS19 (revised) basis. 
GOVERNANCE
Y our Board believes that the effective stewardship of the Group is  
enhanced by the wealth of experience and range of expertise of its  
members. T ogether, we are committed to building a stronger Group  
for the future and delivering long term sustainable value to our  
shareholders and improving services for customers.
Our long-held view is that open and transparent disclosure is of vital 
importance and we take our responsibility to present fair, balanced and 
understandable information very seriously. Once again, our commitment to 
best practice reporting was recognised at the 2014 Investor Relations Society 
Awards, reflecting the communication of our investment proposition and our 
use of digital reporting channels.
We continue to comply with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, as outlined in our corporate governance report on  
pages 52 to 85.
During the year, in accordance with best practice, we initiated a formal  
tender process for our external auditor. At our AGM in October 2015, the 
Board will propose that Deloitte LLP will replace Ernst & Y oung LLP as the 
Group’s statutory auditor. A process of transition from Ernst & Y oung LLP  
to Deloitte LLP has been agreed.
Following the year end, we consulted with major shareholders regarding 
changes to our executive remuneration policy and, in particular, our long term 
incentive arrangements. The proposed changes, which were developed to 
increase alignment between our strategy and the way we measure and  
reward performance, include the introduction of customer satisfaction as  
a long term performance measure. We know that providing high levels of 
customer service and a good customer experience is fundamental to our 
success as a leading transport operator. We believe these changes are a  
positive step in better connecting the remuneration of executive directors  
to customer experience. Read our remuneration report on pages 70 to 85 
In July 2015, it was announced that Keith Down, Group Finance Director, would 
be stepping down from the Board in late 2015 to take up a new external role.  6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“ Collaboration and partnership working  
are particular strengths for Go-Ahead.  
We have always worked closely with our  
key strategic partners and are continually 
striving to strengthen these relationships.” 
Record passenger numbers  
in our rail division
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
Profit growth  
in all divisons Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 7
expectations, as passenger revenue growth in our regional bus operations 
slowed, particularly in the second half, and Quality Incentive Contract (QIC) 
revenue declined in our London bus business due to increased congestion 
and roadworks. As a result, we now believe that we will achieve £100m of bus 
operating profit in 2016/17, one year later than originally expected.
Our rail division delivered stronger than expected profitability of £25.7m  
(2014: £19.7m) up 30.5% on the previous year, despite the operational 
challenges faced during the year. This strong performance was helped by 
contract management benefits towards the end of the Southern franchise. 
BUS
Our regional bus operations delivered operating profit of £46.7m  
(2014: £41.9m), up 11.5%, and our London business contributed £42.3m  
(2014: £41.6m), a rise of 1.7% in the year.
While the majority of our regional operations saw growth in passenger 
journeys, passenger growth in our regional bus business overall was down 1.4% 
as a result of continuing economic weakness in the north east and the impact 
of roadworks on our services in Oxford and Brighton. In particular, in Oxford, 
ongoing long delays due to congestion are deterring bus travel. 
In London, we maintained our market share and contract revenue increased in 
line with our expectations. However, high levels of roadworks and congestion 
associated with public realm improvements and the cycle super highway in 
the capital, impacted our QIC revenue significantly, dropping to £4.6m (2014: 
£9.1m) in the year, predominantly in the second half.
We are currently operating in an environment of low inflation, with low revenue 
growth and some upward pressure on the cost base. Some headwinds, such 
as the reduction in QIC revenue and specific issues in some of our regional 
areas, are impacting our business in the short term. Looking to the future, TfL 
has stated it expects bus reliability to reach record levels by 2017, which should 
result in improvements in our QIC revenue. Pressure on some of our regional 
bus services due to roadworks will ease when infrastructure programmes 
are completed, presenting us with the potential for revenue growth and an 
improved operating network for the future. In addition, Government forecasts 
estimate that inflation will rise at a time when some of our costs, such as  
fuel, will reduce. All of these factors give us confidence in the prospects for  
our bus division.
RAIL
Under its new direct award contract, Southeastern delivered a strong financial 
performance in the year to 27 June 2015, with an increase in revenue of 8.5% 
year on year. This strong performance more than offset the weakness in GTR, 
which reported a loss in the year due to additional costs incurred as it sought 
to rectify the issues at the beginning of the contract in September 2014. These 
issues were quickly identified by GTR’s management team and improvement 
plans were put in place. Investment has been made in temporary rolling stock 
and permanent drivers, with the largest ever driver training programme in the 
UK currently underway. 
Over the coming years we will be working hard to deliver a comprehensive 
programme of works, within a complex contractual arrangement, and a 
franchise which has inevitably changed from the original bid. GTR will employ 
the normal industry contract remedies to help mitigate these changes over time. 
We are heavily reliant on third parties, which have their own targets, budgets 
and deadlines to meet, but we strongly believe that working in partnership is 
vital to the successful delivery of the Thameslink Programme. 
Although this franchise will continue to be challenging and we expect margins 
to be impacted in the near term, our expectations for the life of the franchise 
remain unchanged. Read more about managing our risks on page 34 
London Midland’s performance continued to improve throughout the year, 
with the franchise making a modest contribution to profit. Southern performed 
in line with our financial expectations and, following the year end, it was 
successfully integrated into GTR. Integrating two large franchises is an enormous 
project and I would like to thank everyone involved for their commitment and 
professionalism through this process. 
STRONGER TOGETHER
This year, once again, the Group has achieved a considerable amount; making 
progress towards our longer term goals. We have faced challenges as well as 
successes. These experiences leave us better placed for the future.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Through our regional bus operations, Go-Ahead has continued to keep people 
in cities and towns across the UK moving over the last three decades. During 
this time we have become an integral part of the local communities that we 
serve and have contributed to economic growth in these areas, working closely 
in partnership with local authorities. We always strive to improve services for 
our passengers and are proud of our high levels of customer satisfaction, which 
remain the best in the sector at 90%.
We believe in investing in our operations to provide high quality services. 
Over the last five years, we have invested over £180 million in our regional 
bus services, largely placed with UK-based manufacturing and construction 
businesses. This investment in our fleet and facilities helps us attract and 
retain customers by improving accessibility, comfort, convenience and the 
environmental sustainability of our services. Successive governments have 
recognised the contribution of the UK’s cost-effective and flexible regional  
bus industry, in which Go-Ahead’s businesses play a prominent role.
As the largest operator of buses in London, Go-Ahead plays an important 
role in delivering the capital’s integrated passenger transport network. Running 
some 2,500 buses every weekday and enabling almost half a million passenger 
journeys each year, we help to keep London moving.
The rail franchising system brings great value to the UK taxpayer. The industry 
contributes over £2bn through net premium payments, more than funding the 
annual maintenance requirements for the national network. In the year, our 
operations have continued to create value for the UK economy, with our rail 
operations directly contributing £255.9m, an increase of £191.9m on last year; 
10 times the profits generated by our rail division. Over the life of its six year 
franchise, Southern generated over £600m for the Government through its 
efficient running of the operation. 
In addition to the financial contribution we make, we are also committed to 
improving services for our passengers. Over the next three years 1,400 new 
train carriages will be introduced across our rail network, providing more 
comfortable, reliable and efficient services. We are collaborating with our 
industry partners to deliver the benefits associated with the £6.5bn Thameslink 
Programme. Notwithstanding a number of planned infrastructure projects 
being postponed, such as electrification on certain routes, the Government’s 
£38bn investment plan remains one of the most transforming and ambitious in 
the history of our country’s railway. Increased rail infrastructure investment is 
essential to improve services and, while an investment programme of this scale 
will inevitably result in disruption while infrastructure improvements are made, it 
will deliver considerable benefit in the long term. We understand the disruption 
this has on passengers and are working closely with Network Rail to minimise 
the impact of this.
Following the general election in May 2015, the new Government has proposed 
the introduction of a Bus Bill. At this stage, there is very little clarity on what 
this may contain, how it may be linked to the Devolution Bill, or the impact it 
may have on existing bus operators. Go-Ahead continually engages with the 
Department for Transport (DfT), MPs and other local stakeholders to help 
inform the debate. The concept of devolution is not unfamiliar to us as we 
have always operated within a devolved management structure. We believe 
partnership working brings about the best results for passengers and taxpayers 
and we continue to work closely with the local authorities in the areas where 
we operate.
OUR PERFORMANCE
I am pleased with the Group’s financial performance in the year. Overall, 
operating profit of £114.7m (2014: £103.2m) exceeded our initial expectations 
and rose 11.1% from the previous year.
We saw another year of record bus profits with operating profit for the division 
up 6.6% to £89.0m (2014: £83.5m). This was marginally behind the Board’s  8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
to meet our customers’ changing needs. Being a business with a devolved 
structure makes it natural for us to understand and support the principle of 
greater local accountability in political structures. 
Go-Ahead is an integral part of the UK public transport industry and we 
believe in offering wider transport solutions. We work closely with our industry 
partners and believe that together, we can build a better future for UK 
passenger transport. Read more about stakeholder relations on page 62 
We are committed to being a responsible business. Our continuous efforts 
to improve environmental performance throughout all our bus and rail 
operating companies have contributed to the achievement of our highest ever 
Carbon Disclosure Project score. This recognises the ongoing commitment 
to environmental responsibility and sustainability, which saw the Group being 
awarded the Carbon Trust Standard triple accreditation for our achievements in 
carbon, water and waste reduction.
As a socially responsible organisation, transparency and openness are important 
to us. A fair tax system is to the benefit of everyone and is crucial to support a 
vibrant economy. We are pleased to be one of only two FTSE 350 organisations 
to have been awarded the Fair T ax Mark in recognition of our responsible 
approach to UK corporation tax. 
All of our stakeholders are important to us. Demonstrating our commitment to 
our suppliers, we were pleased to be recognised by the Prompt Payment Code 
during the year. Read more on page 30 
OUTLOOK
The new financial year has begun with similar trends to the second half  
of 2014/15. 
We expect to deliver £100m of bus operating profit in 2016/2017, a year later 
than originally anticipated. We would expect some of the headwinds which  
we have experienced over the past year to reverse over time and this, along 
with reduced fuel costs, gives us continued confidence in the prospects for  
the bus division.
In our rail division, the Board’s expectations remain unchanged as a stronger 
performance in Southeastern continues to offset underperformance in GTR. 
Our focus will remain on delivering improvements for customers and minimising 
disruption caused by large scale infrastructure work. We continue discussions 
with the DfT regarding the extension of the London Midland franchise from 
March 2016 to October 2017 and hope to agree terms shortly. 
We look forward to hearing the outcome of the Northern and TransPennine 
Express rail franchise competitions, and submitting our bid for TfL’s London 
Overground contract in the autumn. Overseas, we await the outcome of a bid 
submitted in the Singapore bus market and our business development team 
continues to explore other opportunities for the Group, particularly in the 
German rail market. 
As a Group, our purpose is to serve our customers. We will continue to  
invest in our services to improve the experience of every customer that  
travels with us.
The Group remains in a good financial position, with strong cash generation and 
a robust balance sheet supporting our progressive dividend policy and allowing 
flexibility to pursue value-adding opportunities. This strong position underpins 
the Board’s decision to propose an increased final dividend for the year, in line 
with our dividend policy.
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
2 September 2015
EXPLORING OPPORTUNITIES
We have always considered growth prospects in a range of markets, looking 
for value adding opportunities that complement our portfolio, in line with our 
measured approach to risk. 
During the period, we submitted bids for the DfT’s Northern and TransPennine 
Express rail franchises and were pleased to be shortlisted for TfL’s London 
Overground contract. Over the next two years, there are a number of other 
UK rail franchise opportunities which we will also consider. 
We are bidding for contracts in the German regional rail market and have a 
small bid team based in Berlin. Germany has the largest rail market in Europe 
and it is amongst the most liberalised. The regional passenger rail market 
generates annual revenue of around €9.6bn and operates more than  
50bn passenger kilometres a year.
We look forward to submitting a second contract bid in the Singaporean bus 
market, which has many similar features to the London bus market, where 
we are the largest operator. At almost half the size of the London market, this 
presents an attractive opportunity for the Group. Annually, over one billion 
passenger journeys are made on Singapore’s bus network. We have gained 
valuable experience and knowledge of this market through our bidding activity 
to date.
As with all development activity, we undertake careful analysis to establish which 
opportunities best complement our portfolio, match our risk appetite and offer 
attractive returns for our shareholders. Read more about our approach to exploring 
new markets from page 14 
OUR PEOPLE
Our 26,000 people remain the backbone of our business and are vital to our 
success as a Group. Our employees reward us with hard work and dedication 
around the clock and in return we strive to make Go-Ahead a great place to 
work. We understand the importance of reward and recognition in all its forms 
and also believe in providing opportunities for the development of our people. 
As we reported last year, a lot of attention has been placed on succession 
planning and talent management across the Group. At all levels of the businesses 
we aim to attract, retain and develop high calibre individuals. We have built 
on the progress made and throughout the year have developed our talent 
management and graduate programmes and launched The Academy, which 
offers online training and learning materials to all our people.
Our local teams are well placed to understand their local markets and 
individually they bring great value to the Group, but we are stronger together 
and are consequently greater than the sum of our parts. Our operating 
companies are encouraged to share what works, coming together to build a 
stronger Group. Our local managing directors, who are accountable for and take 
ownership of their businesses, embrace this approach. Read more about our people 
from page 26 
OUR APPROACH
Our strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing business and to grow 
the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value. In order to deliver against 
our strategy, we ensure the sustainability of our business model for the long 
term. Corporate responsibility is at the heart of what we do and we avoid short 
term solutions in all areas of our business. We believe that this approach is the 
best way to achieve sustainable profitability. 
Our approach is underpinned by our strategic priorities of being a leading 
employer which provides high quality, locally-focused passenger transport 
services, running our companies in a responsible manner, and with strong 
financial discipline. 
We believe firmly that public transport is best delivered through working  
in partnership, with strong alliances between operators and local authorities. 
Collaboration and partnership working are particular strengths for Go-Ahead. 
We have always worked closely with our key strategic partners and are 
continually working to strengthen these relationships. Our devolved structure, 
with local management teams making local decisions, combined with the 
flexibility inherent in commercial operations, helps us to tailor our services   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 9
YOUR EXPECTATIONS FOR TARGET 100 HAVE CHANGED. 
WHY ARE YOU NOT GOING TO HIT THE TARGET NEXT YEAR?
“ We announced our £100m operating profit target in October 2012 and set 
out a roadmap of how this would be achieved. Since then, our bus division 
has performed very well; growing revenue both in and outside London, 
reducing costs and overcoming a number of challenging headwinds. 2014/15 
has presented some particularly testing conditions in some of our operating 
areas with continuing weakness in the north east economy and roadworks 
in Oxford and Brighton significantly impacting our regional bus services.  
In London, roadworks and congestion have affected the punctuality of  
our services and consequently impacted the revenue we receive through 
Quality Incentive Contracts. Regardless of the targets we’ve set ourselves,  
we remain focused on delivering long term sustainable growth.” 
HOW ARE COMPANIES LIKE UBER GOING TO AFFECT  
YOUR BUSINESS?
“ We operate in competitive markets in the UK and are always mindful of 
existing competition and new entrants to these markets. Advancements in 
technology are changing the way people access information and services. 
Go-Ahead responds to these changing needs and innovates to constantly 
improve the customer experience, so for instance our bus apps are the best 
in class and enable real time journey planning, personalised information and 
social media traffic and travel updates.” 
HOW ARE THE CHANGES IN NATIONAL LIVING WAGE  
GOING TO AFFECT THE GROUP?
“ We believe in good reward and recognition for the work our people do.  
All of our companies already pay the vast majority of our employees the 
national living wage or higher. By the end of the year all employees, who  
are not apprentices or in training, will be on, or earning more than, the 
national living wage.”
YOU HAVE INCREASED THE DIVIDEND AGAIN, BUT WHAT 
ARE THE PLANS FOR THE FUTURE?
“ The Board was pleased to propose another increase to the full year dividend 
this year, recognising the importance of our dividend to the investment 
decision of many of our shareholders. This reflects our confidence in the 
Group’s performance and prospects for the future. We are a long term 
business committed to delivering sustainable returns to our shareholders. 
Our strong balance sheet leaves us well placed to explore which options  
will deliver the best value for investors.” 
YOU’RE BIDDING FOR WORK OVERSEAS. THIS HAS  
NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL FOR THE GROUP IN THE PAST . 
WHAT HAS CHANGED?
“ Exploring opportunities overseas isn’t a new stance for the Group. We 
have always sought growth and consider opportunities in all markets. We 
aren’t interested in ‘planting flags’ or buying market share; we are looking for 
real value adding opportunities that will deliver shareholder value. We are 
interested in markets that are similar to those in which we currently operate 
and to which we can bring value through our expertise. All opportunities 
pursued by the Group are with full backing from the Board, in line with  
our strategic objectives and appetite for risk.” 
   View the full year interview online, visit: www.go-ahead.com 
DAVID ADDRESSES SOME  
TOPICAL QUESTIONS FROM  
OUR SHAREHOLDERS 10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model is a continuous cycle, supporting our strategy.  
In addition to creating value for our shareholders we deliver value for  
our customers, our people, the communities we serve and wider society. 
Economic value retained by shareholders  £52.2m
Payments to suppliers  £1,746.8m
Capital expenditure  £42.3m
Finance costs  £18.1m
Staff costs  £1,079.6m
Corporation tax payments to Government  £20.3m
Net rail contribution to DfT  £255.9m
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION
Total revenue £3,215.2m
Regional 
bus 
London  
bus 
Rail
Our people Customers Finance Society
Our people Customers Communities
OUR GOVERNANCE  
FRAMEWORK
OUR APPROACH  
TO RISK
Government Strategic 
partners & 
suppliers
Investors
WE GENERATE 
REVENUE AND PROFIT ...
...CREATING  
VALUE FOR ALL OUR  
STAKEHOLDERS...
...THROUGH OUR THREE 
OPERATING DIVISIONS...
...AND REINVESTING  
TO BUILD A  
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS  
FOR THE LONG TERM
...ENABLED BY ... 
OUR KEY RELATIONSHIPS 
OUR KEY INPUTS
...SUPPORTED BY ... 
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
1
2
3
5
6
4 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 11
WE GENERATE REVENUE AND PROFIT IN TWO MAIN WAYS...
1) through the provision of transport services to fare-paying passengers, 
whose revenue covers the cost of service and a profit margin.
2) through the provision of passenger transport services on behalf of 
public sector transport authorities, for example, TfL, the DfT and local 
authorities. We tender for, and run, contracts in two main sub-categories:
• Gross cost contracts where our entire revenue comprises payments made 
by the transport authority to us with the authority retaining all fare 
revenue raised
• Net cost contracts where our revenue is a combination of income  
from fares and payments from transport authorities
• Where our revenue is partly or wholly derived from public sector 
transport authorities we have lower revenue risk but exposure to  
cost risk as cost overruns cannot be offset by fare increases. Good  
cost controls are therefore vital in areas such as staff utilisation, fuel 
efficiency and negotiation and management of contractual relationships. 
Part of the Group’s core skill set is managing all of these areas without 
compromising safety or quality
...ENABLED BY ...
OUR KEY RELATIONSHIPS
Customers: Our passengers make over one billion journeys a year on 
our services. We need to know how we are performing so we can deliver 
change and improvements. We understand our local markets and strive  
to meet our customers’ needs.
Our people: High levels of employee engagement, commitment and job 
satisfaction contribute directly to the success of Go-Ahead. The majority  
of our people are members of trade unions and our local teams work 
hard to foster good relationships with their representatives.
Communities: Our businesses are part of the local communities in 
which they operate. Our aim is to play a constructive role in the towns  
and cities we serve, working closely with local community groups.
Government: Policy and regulatory changes affect our bus and rail 
businesses. Working closely with both central and local government  
enables us to provide input into new policies and ensure we receive 
regular feedback on our performance. We also support central 
Government in activities such as rolling stock procurement where  
our teams have highly valued expertise.
Strategic partners and suppliers: We work collaboratively in 
a number of strategic partnerships including with the DfT, TfL, local 
authorities, Network Rail and rail rolling stock companies. Professional 
relationships with core suppliers help to ensure and support efficient 
delivery of our passenger transport services. 
Shareholders: As a publicly listed company, we provide open and 
transparent communications which enable informed investment decisions 
to be made. Feedback from our shareholders forms part of strategic 
discussions in the Boardroom.
OUR KEY INPUTS
Our people: We employ directly almost all the people involved in 
providing our services.
Our trains and buses: All of our trains are leased and we own all  
of our regional bus fleet. In our London bus business, around half of  
our fleet is leased and half is owned.
Infrastructure: We pay for the use of public sector infrastructure such 
as railway track access or use of local authority bus stations. We own the 
majority of our bus depots. Rail depots are rented from Network Rail or 
similar providers.
Fuel: Our vehicles are mainly powered by a combination of diesel, 
electricity and gas. Read about our fuel hedging on page 43 
Finance: We are financed partly by investment from our shareholders, 
partly by bank loans and other debt and also by profits generated by our 
operations. After payments to transport authorities and infrastructure 
providers, our largest costs are those of employing our people, funding  
our vehicle fleets and fuel. See the breakdown of our bus and rail cost bases on  
pages 42 and 46 
...SUPPORTED BY ...
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Read about our strategic priorities  
on page 17  
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Read our corporate governance report  
on page 56 
OUR APPROACH TO RISK
Read about our approach to risk  
on page 34 
...THROUGH OUR THREE OPERATING DIVISIONS...
Read about our operating divisions on page 12 
...CREATING VALUE FOR ALL OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS...
At Go-Ahead, we believe it is important to deliver shared value. Our 
bus and rail operations generate value for our people, the communities 
we serve, and our passengers who make over a billion journeys on our 
services each year. We deliver high levels of services to our transport 
authority customers and strive to be a reliable partner to our industry 
colleagues. Through our robust business model, we are committed to 
delivering sustainable shareholder value. We also create benefits for the  
UK economy through the employment of 26,000 people, the taxes we  
pay, payments to our suppliers and the contribution our rail franchises 
make to Government finances.
...AND REINVESTING TO BUILD A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FOR THE LONG TERM
We continue to invest in our services to maintain our position as a leading provider of passenger transport. 
Regional 
bus 
London  
bus 
Rail
1
2
3
5
4
6 12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR CORE BUSINESS UNITS
We create shared value for our stakeholders through our three operating 
divisions: regional bus, London bus and rail.
REGIONAL BUS KEY MARKET FEATURES GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES DIVISIONAL REVENUE
WE OPERATE COMMERCIAL BUS 
BUSINESSES, PREDOMINANTL Y IN 
THE SOUTH OF ENGLAND
Outside London, we have operations in 
Brighton, Oxford, Plymouth, East Anglia, on 
the south coast and in north east England. 
We own 100% of these businesses.
Read about regional bus division performance  
from page 41 
• Outside London
• Services operated on a  
largely commercial basis
• Accountable to the traffic 
commissioner and other 
industry bodies 
• Work in partnership with  
local authorities to meet the 
needs of our communities
• Comprises local markets  
with unique features
• Mainly private operators, some 
local authority owned operations
• Operators largely make their 
own decisions, such as  
setting bus fares, routes  
and service frequencies
• Some tendered services are run 
on behalf of councils, such as 
school contracts 
• Operators have a relatively 
flexible cost base which can  
be adapted to mitigate  
external factors
Go-Ahead operates around 7% of 
the regional bus market in the UK. 
It is a mature market with scope for 
growth through acquisition, network 
expansion and changing behaviours 
resulting in increased bus use. 
70%
FARE PAYING PASSENGERS
By offering high quality services and value for money fares, we are able to grow 
passenger numbers. This contributes directly to the success of our business.
REIMBURSEMENT FOR CONCESSIONARY TRAVEL
Government policy entitles anyone of pensionable age to free travel on local 
bus services in England. Bus operators are reimbursed a percentage of the full  
fare for revenue forgone. This is paid by local authorities from a fund allocated  
by central Government, based on a principle of the operator being ‘no better  
and no worse off’. Our typical reimbursement rates are around 50%.
TENDERED CONTRACTS
Services which are not commercially viable, such as rural routes and school buses, are 
tendered by local authorities. We also operate commercial contracts for universities 
and other third parties. These contracts are often tendered on a net cost basis.
20%
10%
LONDON BUS KEY MARKET FEATURES GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES DIVISIONAL REVENUE
WE OPERATE TENDERED CONTRACTS 
FOR TRANSPORT FOR LONDON (TFL)
In London, we operate around 170 routes 
from 17 depots in the capital. Around 85% 
of these depots are freehold. We own  
100% of this business.
Read about London bus division performance  
from page 41 
• Services operated for TfL 
which sets routes and  
service frequency
• Fares set by the  
Mayor of London
• Private operators bid for 
individual route contracts
• Revenue paid to operators by 
TfL on a revenue per mile basis 
• Five to seven year contracts, 
dependent on performance
• Gross cost contracts require 
tight control of cost base
Go-Ahead is the largest bus 
operator in London with around 
24% market share. Growth 
opportunities exist through 
additional contract wins, by moving 
into new areas through acquisition 
and where the scope of the 
network increases due to  
London’s population growth.
95%
RUNNING BUS SERVICES IN LONDON FOR TFL
Operating under a regulated system, TfL issues tenders for bus routes in London 
and private operators enter a competitive bidding process for individual route 
contracts. Contracts are usually five years in duration with a possible two year 
performance-based extension. Our revenue comes directly from TfL and is paid 
on a revenue per mile basis.
QUALITY INCENTIVE BONUSES AND OTHER REVENUE
Performance targets are set by TfL through Quality Incentive Contracts (QIC)  
to encourage the provision of punctual services. Operators receive bonus 
payments when targets are met and are penalised for poor performance. 
Other sources of revenue include providing rail replacement services, advertising 
on buses and operating other third party contracts.
5%
RAIL KEY MARKET FEATURES GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES DIVISIONAL REVENUE
WE OPERATE RAIL FRANCHISES  
FOR THE DEPARTMENT FOR  
TRANSPORT (DFT)
Go-Ahead currently operates three UK rail 
franchises (GTR, Southeastern and London 
Midland) through Govia, a 65% owned joint 
venture with Keolis. 
Read about rail division performance  
from page 45 
• Regulated by the Office of  
Rail Regulation (ORR) and 
other industry bodies
• Peak fares, routes and  
service frequencies set  
by the Government
• Franchises typically have initial 
contract terms of around  
eight years
• The infrastructure is largely 
owned and managed by 
Network Rail
• Trains are leased from rolling 
stock operators
• Operators have a relatively fixed 
cost base, reducing flexibility  
to adapt to changes in the  
wider economy
Govia operates around 27% of the 
UK rail market. There are significant 
growth opportunities in this market in 
the coming years, with 10 franchises 
due to be awarded by 2019.
95%
PASSENGER REVENUE, FRANCHISE PAYMENTS AND SUBSIDIES
Operating under a regulated system, the DfT issues tenders for rail franchises and 
private operators enter a competitive bidding process for the right to operate 
them. Typically, operators submit detailed franchise bids that specify the level of 
premium the operator will pay to the DfT or the level of subsidy or franchise 
payment it will require from the DfT for operating the franchise, dependent on 
a range of assumptions, such as passenger revenue and cost base. The model is 
designed to maximise the value to the taxpayer by incentivising train companies 
to operate efficiently and encourage passenger growth. 
OTHER REVENUE
A small proportion of revenue is generated through other activities on the rail 
franchise network such as car parking, station retailing, advertising at stations  
and on trains and third party engineering work.
5%
24%
of London  
bus market
27%
of UK  
rail market Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 13
Regional bus
London bus
Rail networks
REGIONAL BUS KEY MARKET FEATURES GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES DIVISIONAL REVENUE
WE OPERATE COMMERCIAL BUS 
BUSINESSES, PREDOMINANTLY IN 
THE SOUTH OF ENGLAND
Outside London, we have operations in 
Brighton, Oxford, Plymouth, East Anglia, on 
the south coast and in north east England. 
We own 100% of these businesses.
Read about regional bus division performance  
from page 41 
• Outside London
• Services operated on a  
largely commercial basis
• Accountable to the traffic 
commissioner and other 
industry bodies 
• Work in partnership with  
local authorities to meet the 
needs of our communities
• Comprises local markets  
with unique features
• Mainly private operators, some 
local authority owned operations
• Operators largely make their 
own decisions, such as  
setting bus fares, routes  
and service frequencies
• Some tendered services are run 
on behalf of councils, such as 
school contracts 
• Operators have a relatively 
flexible cost base which can  
be adapted to mitigate  
external factors
Go-Ahead operates around 7% of 
the regional bus market in the UK. 
It is a mature market with scope for 
growth through acquisition, network 
expansion and changing behaviours 
resulting in increased bus use. 
70%
FARE PAYING PASSENGERS
By offering high quality services and value for money fares, we are able to grow 
passenger numbers. This contributes directly to the success of our business.
REIMBURSEMENT FOR CONCESSIONARY TRAVEL
Government policy entitles anyone of pensionable age to free travel on local 
bus services in England. Bus operators are reimbursed a percentage of the full  
fare for revenue forgone. This is paid by local authorities from a fund allocated  
by central Government, based on a principle of the operator being ‘no better  
and no worse off’. Our typical reimbursement rates are around 50%.
TENDERED CONTRACTS
Services which are not commercially viable, such as rural routes and school buses, are 
tendered by local authorities. We also operate commercial contracts for universities 
and other third parties. These contracts are often tendered on a net cost basis.
20%
10%
LONDON BUS KEY MARKET FEATURES GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES DIVISIONAL REVENUE
WE OPERATE TENDERED CONTRACTS 
FOR TRANSPORT FOR LONDON (TFL)
In London, we operate around 170 routes 
from 17 depots in the capital. Around 85% 
of these depots are freehold. We own  
100% of this business.
Read about London bus division performance  
from page 41 
• Services operated for TfL 
which sets routes and  
service frequency
• Fares set by the  
Mayor of London
• Private operators bid for 
individual route contracts
• Revenue paid to operators by 
TfL on a revenue per mile basis 
• Five to seven year contracts, 
dependent on performance
• Gross cost contracts require 
tight control of cost base
Go-Ahead is the largest bus 
operator in London with around 
24% market share. Growth 
opportunities exist through 
additional contract wins, by moving 
into new areas through acquisition 
and where the scope of the 
network increases due to  
London’s population growth.
95%
RUNNING BUS SERVICES IN LONDON FOR TFL
Operating under a regulated system, TfL issues tenders for bus routes in London 
and private operators enter a competitive bidding process for individual route 
contracts. Contracts are usually five years in duration with a possible two year 
performance-based extension. Our revenue comes directly from TfL and is paid 
on a revenue per mile basis.
QUALITY INCENTIVE BONUSES AND OTHER REVENUE
Performance targets are set by TfL through Quality Incentive Contracts (QIC)  
to encourage the provision of punctual services. Operators receive bonus 
payments when targets are met and are penalised for poor performance. 
Other sources of revenue include providing rail replacement services, advertising 
on buses and operating other third party contracts.
5%
RAIL KEY MARKET FEATURES GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES DIVISIONAL REVENUE
WE OPERATE RAIL FRANCHISES  
FOR THE DEPARTMENT FOR  
TRANSPORT (DFT)
Go-Ahead currently operates three UK rail 
franchises (GTR, Southeastern and London 
Midland) through Govia, a 65% owned joint 
venture with Keolis. 
Read about rail division performance  
from page 45 
• Regulated by the Office of  
Rail Regulation (ORR) and 
other industry bodies
• Peak fares, routes and  
service frequencies set  
by the Government
• Franchises typically have initial 
contract terms of around  
eight years
• The infrastructure is largely 
owned and managed by 
Network Rail
• Trains are leased from rolling 
stock operators
• Operators have a relatively fixed 
cost base, reducing flexibility  
to adapt to changes in the  
wider economy
Govia operates around 27% of the 
UK rail market. There are significant 
growth opportunities in this market in 
the coming years, with 10 franchises 
due to be awarded by 2019.
95%
PASSENGER REVENUE, FRANCHISE PAYMENTS AND SUBSIDIES
Operating under a regulated system, the DfT issues tenders for rail franchises and 
private operators enter a competitive bidding process for the right to operate 
them. Typically, operators submit detailed franchise bids that specify the level of 
premium the operator will pay to the DfT or the level of subsidy or franchise 
payment it will require from the DfT for operating the franchise, dependent on 
a range of assumptions, such as passenger revenue and cost base. The model is 
designed to maximise the value to the taxpayer by incentivising train companies 
to operate efficiently and encourage passenger growth. 
OTHER REVENUE
A small proportion of revenue is generated through other activities on the rail 
franchise network such as car parking, station retailing, advertising at stations  
and on trains and third party engineering work.
5%
GROUP REVENUE (£m)
£3,2 1 5.2m
Regional bus  359.9
London bus  457.9
Rail  2,397.4
+1 9.0%
Regional bus  46.7
London bus  42.3
Rail  25.7
GROUP OPERATING PROFIT (£m)
£114.7m +11.1% 14 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR MARKETS
Our current bus and rail businesses operate in the UK, predominantly in London 
and the south east. In the three decades that Go-Ahead has operated in these 
markets, we have delivered strong growth organically and through acquisitions. 
Public transport brings benefits to individuals, communities and the nation 
as a whole. Economically, it connects workers to jobs and enables trade. 
Socially, it provides access to employment, education, and health care, and 
unites friends and family. For many, especially older people, people with 
disabilities and children, public transport is often the only viable option. 
In the UK, the population continues to increase and car ownership is rising, 
creating greater traffic congestion, with 55% of car journeys made being 
under five miles
1
. Public transport helps to reduce levels of traffic on the  
road, improve carbon emissions and reduce travel times. 
It is important for us to listen to our customers and understand how 
their travel behaviours are changing and what is important to them. 
Understanding our customers enables us to innovate and evolve to 
continue meeting their changing demands.
Like most customer facing businesses, we use market and wider  
economic data to help us understand trends but do not solely rely on  
this. We believe the best way to understand our customers’ behaviour 
is to ask our customers themselves for their views, as well as analysing 
travelling and purchasing behaviour through our various ticketing channels. 
Go-Ahead’s companies undertake passenger research to ensure customers’ 
needs are understood and are met. 
Read more about our approach to understanding our customers from page 22 
The way people use technology has changed in recent years. In the last 
three years alone the number of adults in the UK using smartphones 
has risen from 39% to 66%. Now, 90% of 16 to 19 year olds own a 
smartphone and usage by 55-64 year olds has reached an all-time high 
of 50%
2
. We strive to take advantage of technological advancements and 
improve the services we provide. For a number of years we’ve led the 
industry in our use of smart ticketing, with the largest transport smartcard 
scheme outside London. Over the last two years we have developed 
mobile apps with features such as real-time information to give customers 
access to up-to-the minute information on their own devices. 
We strive to enable people to use their time travelling productively by 
creating comfortable environments and providing innovations such as  
on board WiFi and mobile phone charging points. 
Research by the Independent Transport Commission shows that the  
end to end journeys that people take are increasingly being split across 
different modes. This supports our view that integrated transport solutions 
are a vital part of today’s transport network. Go-Ahead already works  
with other transport companies and local authorities to promote 
integrated travel, with multi-operator smartcards in Tyne and Wear,  
Oxford and Brighton.
As an experienced transport operator we are mindful of new and 
increased competition that could impact our business. As the market  
is constantly changing, we too are always developing our approach to  
ensure we maintain competitive advantage in the areas and markets  
in which we operate.
OUR CORE MARKETS 
Our current bus and rail businesses operate in the UK, predominantly 
in London and the south east. In the three decades that Go-Ahead has 
operated in these markets, we have delivered strong growth organically  
and through acquisitions. 
The London bus and UK rail markets are regulated by Transport for 
London (TfL) and the Office of Rail Regulation respectively. Both markets 
operate under an established and successful model, and while the rail 
industry faced disruption following the Government’s suspension of the 
franchise bidding process after the failed West Coast franchise competition 
in 2012, the revised franchising timetable is underway and the market is 
stabilising. There is also currently some uncertainty regarding the future of 
English regional bus markets in anticipation of the Government’s proposed 
Bus Bill, potentially linked to a Devolution Bill. 
1 Government policy local transport.
2 Ofcom.
66%
The proportion of adults in the 
UK using smartphones  
has risen from 39% to 66% Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 15
The Government has demonstrated its commitment to a strong transport 
network through its pledge to invest £15bn by 2021 as part of its Road 
Investment Strategy, and £38bn on the rail network by 2019. Despite some 
planned infrastructure projects being put on hold, large scale programmes such 
as the Thameslink Programme and Crossrail demonstrate the commitment 
to building a stronger rail network for the future. TfL plans to make significant 
investments in its bus network over the coming years, to support the growing 
population in the capital. 
As well as investment, Government and local authority policies are also critical 
in ensuring an efficient public transport system, such as bus lanes in city centres.
Our main competition in our markets comes from private and commercial  
car-based transport alongside other bus and rail operators. Go-Ahead is able  
to compete in its markets due to its expertise, experience and reputation as  
a high quality operator of value for money services.
FACTORS AFFECTING OUR MARKETS
THE ECONOMY
During the economic downturn in 2008/09, GDP fell by around 6% and did 
not return to its pre-downturn levels until 2013
3
. Unlike many sectors that 
experience volatility with economic changes, the bus and rail markets remained 
relatively stable through this period. Go-Ahead in particular, showed resilience 
at this time with consistent growth in passenger volumes between 2008 and 
2013, demonstrating the strength of our business model and strategy. Economic 
prospects look strong for the UK, with forecast GDP growth of 2.7% and 2.6% 
in 2015 and 2016 respectively
4
.
3 Office for National Statistics.
4 British Chamber of Commerce. 
Go-Ahead Stagecoach
National Express FirstGroup
Other Arriva
REGIONAL BUS MARKET SHARE
*
7%
15%
20%
23%
29%
6%
7%
Stagecoach         
Go-Ahead          RATP           
T ower Transit 
Others         
Comfort DelGro Abellio          
Arriva                
LONDON BUS MARKET SHARE
*
24%
15%
17%
19%
24%
1%
5%
8%
12% FirstGroup Govia
Arriva Stagecoach
Others Abellio
RAIL MARKET SHARE
*
27%
14%
27%
27%
12%
9%
11%
* Go-Ahead estimates.
OUR STRENGTHS AS AN OPERATOR:
• Understanding and meeting the needs of the travelling public in our 
local markets, delivering good quality services and value for money 
• Developing strong local brands 
• Delivering safe and efficient vehicle operations 
• Providing excellent customer service, for both our passengers and  
our transport authority customers 
• Adopting a partnership approach in developing and operating  
services which create long term value for all parties involved 
• Operating on large and complex transport networks 
• Marketing our services to passengers 
• Employing experienced management who are committed to 
supporting and developing our people while delivering high quality 
services and sustainable shareholder value
POPULATION
Population growth is a key driver for growth in public transport. Since the bus 
industry was privatised in 1987, the UK’s population has risen by 13% and it 
is forecast to grow a further 13% to 73.2million over the next 20 years
3
. The 
highest rates of growth have been seen in London, where there is a direct 
correlation between population growth and rising passenger numbers on  
buses in the capital. TfL estimates London’s population to be growing by  
a tube full of people every three days.
More people are now living in urban areas, where traffic congestion for  
car users has increased. In 2013, a DfT survey found 45% of respondents 
thought traffic congestion was a problem, up from 39% the year before. 16 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR MARKETS CONTINUED
UK population to grow
13%
over the next  
20 years
REGIONAL BUS:
• Infrastructure improvements in some of our 
operating areas that will deliver long term 
benefits are resulting in significant roadworks  
and disruption in the shorter term
• The local economy in the north east has not 
recovered at the same rate as other areas in 
which we operate. Unemployment there stands 
at 8.1% compared to a UK average of 5.6%
3
. 
Passenger volumes have fallen in this area as  
a result of weaker economic conditions
• The Government’s plans regarding the Bus Bill and 
possible links to devolution are currently unknown 
and this creates uncertainty in this market, which 
may reduce investment by operators
LONDON BUS: 
• TfL has acknowledged that passenger volume 
targets have not been met due to rising levels of 
traffic congestion. The number of roadworks on 
TfL’s road network rose 43% in the period to 
April 2015, compared to the same time last year. 
TfL expects reliability of the bus network to 
return to best ever levels by 2016/17
RAIL: 
• The large scale infrastructure project, the 
Thameslink Programme, continues to impact  
on our ability to operate some of our services  
to our usual target levels. We are reliant on  
other parties, such as Network Rail, delivering 
their contractual obligations
EXPLORING NEW MARKETS
Go-Ahead has successfully operated in the UK bus and rail market for 
several decades, over which time it has built a broad and in depth skill  
set covering complex and busy public transport networks. 
The Group is exploring opportunities in other markets, outside the 
UK. Our longstanding approach to development has been to seek 
opportunities that deliver value to our shareholders. We do not make 
strategic investments which increase market share without generating  
clear returns. 
We look for markets that fit with our strategy and risk appetite and to 
which we can bring knowledge, experience and expertise. 
Currently, we are actively pursuing contract opportunities in the German 
rail market and the Singaporean bus market and have gained valuable 
knowledge and bidding experience over the past year. 
MARKET CHALLENGES
3 Office for National Statistics.
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MARKETS WE ARE 
EXPLORING:
• Cultural similarities to the UK
• Strong economic credentials
• High demand for public transport
• Stable political outlook
• Growing population Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 17
OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Group has a clear strategy to which the Board is committed. Our key performance 
indicators (KPIs), linked to our strategic priorities, are regularly reviewed. 
Performance against these KPIs is discussed by the Board in every meeting.
SOCIETY
T o run our companies in a safe, 
socially and environmentally 
responsible manner.
We believe a sustainable public 
transport network is essential to 
the future of any society and as 
a leading provider of passenger 
transport services, sustainability 
is integral to the way we run 
our business. Ensuring the safety 
of our passengers and our 
people is an absolute priority 
for us. We are also committed 
to making a contribution to 
the communities in which we 
operate and to wider society. 
Reducing the environmental 
impact of our operations while 
providing a greener alternative 
to the private car contributes 
to the Government’s 
environmental targets. The 
economic contribution from 
Go-Ahead helps support 
economic recovery and  
longer term prosperity. 
OUR VISION
Our vision is to be a leading provider of high quality, innovative, 
customer-focused passenger transport services, delivering the  
local needs of passengers and communities.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE 
The KPIs presented in this report are the measures we use in the business to assess the Group’s performance against our strategic objectives.  
These measures are regularly reviewed to ensure we are focusing on the right areas of performance. 
Last year, we set new targets for 2020 across our four strategic priorities. Our target setting process is both a top down and bottom up approach, 
considering guidance from industry bodies while allowing for the unique features of our businesses and markets. The 2020 targets use 2014 
performance as a baseline for measurement. 
The directors’ remuneration policy is designed to reflect the Group’s performance, with elements of remuneration linked to each of our strategic priorities.
OUR PEOPLE
T o be a leading employer in  
the transport sector.
Our people are our most 
valuable and important asset. 
Without them, our buses and 
trains cannot create value. It is 
our teams across the Group 
that keep the business moving 
and are the face of Go-Ahead. 
Investing in and developing 
our people enable them to 
fulfil their own potential and 
assist them in carrying out 
their jobs to the best of their 
ability, thereby improving the 
customer experience. Effective 
leadership development 
and succession planning are 
essential to sustainable  
success for the Group and 
a diverse workforce further 
enhances this.
CUSTOMERS
T o provide high quality,  
locally focused passenger 
transport services.
Meeting the needs of our 
customers is vital to the success 
of the Group. Providing reliable, 
value for money passenger 
transport encourages more 
passengers to use our services 
and leaves us well placed to 
tender for contracts with our 
transport authority customers. 
Our devolved structure 
ensures strong localised 
expertise, focuses on the  
needs of the local customer 
and has the ability to respond 
quickly to changing conditions 
in local markets. Good 
customer service is at the  
heart of everything we do  
and we are committed to 
delivering high levels of 
customer satisfaction.
FINANCE
T o run our business with strong 
financial discipline to deliver 
sustainable shareholder value.
Our aim is to deliver 
shareholder value through 
a combination of earnings 
growth, and strong cash 
generation and balance sheet 
management, supplemented 
by value adding growth 
opportunities. We have a 
steadfast commitment to 
operating with strong financial 
discipline and a conservative 
view towards risk. The strength 
of our balance sheet allows  
us to pursue opportunities,  
adding value to the Group,  
and making attractive returns 
to shareholders. 
OUR STRATEGY
Our Group strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing 
business while growing the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder 
value. This strategy is underpinned by our strategic priorities and is 
supported by our divisional bus and rail strategies. 
Read our bus and rail strategies on pages 41 and 45  18 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
SERVING LOCAL  
COMMUNITIES
WE MAKE A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITIES WE  
SERVE AND ALSO TO WIDER SOCIETY
SOCIETY
Being part of the local community underpins Go-Ahead’s devolved 
management approach and enables our bus and rail companies to be more 
responsive to the different needs that different passengers have. Whether 
customers are using wheelchairs or mobility scooters, have difficulty 
walking, are pregnant or travelling with young children, or have more 
complex learning difficulties or mental health issues – all our bus and  
rail companies strive to make their services as accessible to everyone  
as they can. 
DEMENTIA FRIENDL Y TOWNS AND CITIES 
With an estimated 850,000 people living with dementia in the UK, the 
Government set a challenge for 20 cities to become ‘dementia friendly’  
by the end of 2015. Many more towns and cities are aiming to achieve this 
status and our operating companies have an integral role in supporting 
their local authority partners towards this aim. This strengthens the 
collaborative working relationship we have with local authorities and 
councils – something that is vital for the success of our companies. 
Being accredited ‘dementia friendly’ requires towns to have easy-to-
navigate physical environments and appropriate transport facilities. All  
our bus companies have dementia awareness as part of their regular driver 
training and refresher courses, using guidance from Alzheimer’s Society’s 
Dementia Friends initiative. The training ensures staff have an understanding 
of what they can do to support people with dementia to carry on with 
everyday life, continue to travel on buses, and keep doing things they enjoy. 
Several of our operating companies serve coastal towns in the south east 
of England. These are often popular places for people to retire to, and  
have higher than average levels of elderly people with dementia. In 2014  
Go South Coast received an award for its work in this area on the Isle  
of Wight. The island has been identified as the local authority with the 
highest percentage of dementia sufferers and it is expecting to increase  
by 27% (from approximately 2,600 to 3,300 people) between 2011 and 
2020. The company has worked with local specialist organisations to 
provide easy-to-read aide-memoirs for people with dementia and their 
carers, helping to make using buses easy and practical. 
Other UK towns are also looking to follow the lead of Go-Ahead bus 
companies such as Brighton & Hove and Metrobus who have declared their 
bus depots and travel shops to be ‘safe havens’ for those with dementia  
or learning difficulties. Southern Railway’s Brighton and Horsham stations  
in the same south-east region have also signed-up to the initiative. 
  Read more Society case studies online, visit: www.go-ahead.com  www.go-ahead.com 19
BETTER
THAN SECTOR AVERAGE  
CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT SCORE
96%
FOUR-STAR RATING IN BUSINESS  
IN THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY INDEX
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t 20 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED
SPADS PER MILLION MILES
What does it mean? Across the rail industry,  
train operating companies are legally required  
to report Signals Passed at Danger (SPADs). 
Although every SPAD is treated as a serious 
incident, most SPADs occur at low speed, where 
braking distance has been misjudged and the train 
is stopped by automatic warning systems, and 
therefore the likelihood of an accident is very low.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure  
against our commitment to provide a safe rail 
passenger service. 
Risks Poor performance in this metric could impact 
on operational performance, result in a poor safety 
record and impact reputation.
2015 performance The number of SPADs per 
million miles decreased by 12.5% to 0.77.  
Overall, we have achieved an improvement  
of 43.5% against our 2007/08 baseline. This is  
a significant improvement despite falling short  
of our 2015 target of 60%.
This result should be viewed in the context of  
many years of improvement in this metric across 
the industry. Performance is tracked against a very 
good baseline performance. 
We have very tight controls around safety and high 
standards of driver training which minimise the 
likelihood of SPADs occurring. We work closely  
with Network Rail to try and minimise the risk 
of SPADs on the network and investigate every 
SPAD which occurs on our services. We encourage 
accurate and timely reporting of incidents. 
Due to the nature of these occurrences and high 
sensitivity to data changes, relative performance  
can fluctuate from one year to the next.
2020 target T o maintain low levels of SPADs per 
million miles, delivering continuous improvement. 
RIDDOR ACCIDENTS  
PER 100 EMPLOYEES
What does it mean? Riddor (Reporting of Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations) 
is a statutory requirement for all companies and 
relates to a work place incident that results in 
absence from work for over seven days or a  
legally reportable incident to the Health and  
Safety Executive. 
Why is it important? It helps us to measure against 
our commitment to providing a safe working 
environment for our employees.
Risks Failing to provide a safe working environment 
for our people goes against our objective to be the 
employer of choice in the sector. Poor performance 
could lead to issues around employee relations, 
including satisfaction and productivity, and could also 
increase employer’s liability insurance claim costs.
2015 performance The number of Riddor accidents 
per 100 employees reduced by 7.9% to 0.70. 
Overall, we have achieved an improvement of 
64.6% against our 2007/08 baseline, exceeding  
our 2015 target of 60%.
We take our responsibility for the safety of our 
people very seriously and ensure our employees 
have the necessary equipment and training to do 
their jobs properly and safely. During the year, we 
continued to invest in staff training and upgrades to 
our facilities to ensure a safe working environment 
for our people. 
We investigate every accident and encourage 
accurate and timely reporting of incidents.
2020 target T o maintain low levels of Riddor 
accidents per 100 employees, delivering  
continuous improvement.
BUS ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES 
What does it mean? We monitor the number of 
bus accidents which result in a notification to a 
claims handler for every million miles we operate, 
including cases where we are not at fault.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure 
against our commitment to provide a safe and 
positive travel experience for our bus passengers 
and minimise risk to the general public. Good 
performance in this area can also reduce cost 
through lower insurance claim costs.
Risks Our objective to run our companies in a safe 
manner would be impacted by poor performance 
against this KPI. Risks associated with this include 
reputational risk and higher insurance claim costs.
2015 performance The number of bus accidents per 
million miles increased by 1.1%. to 38.2. Overall, we 
have achieved an improvement of 33.1% against our 
2007/08 baseline. This is a significant improvement 
despite falling short of our 2015 target of 60%.
Bus accidents have significantly reduced since 2011 
as a result of action we have taken despite an 
increase in accidents where we are not at fault.  
We invest heavily in training, monitor driving 
behaviour and encourage our drivers to improve 
their standards of driving through a range of 
initiatives across the division. We have better  
end to end processes in place from accident 
prevention to claims management. We investigate 
every accident and encourage accurate and timely 
reporting of incidents.
2020 target T o maintain low levels of bus  
accidents per million miles, delivering  
continuous improvement.
SOCIETY
To run our companies in a safe, socially and  
environmentally responsible manner 
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
11 12 13 14 15
SPADS PER MILLION MILES
0.75
0.58
0.72
0.80
0.77
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
0
11 12 13 14 15
RIDDOR ACCIDENTS PER 
100 EMPLOYEES
1.14
1.01
0.72
0.76
0.70
60
40
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
BUS ACCIDENTS PER 
MILLION MILES
51.7 51.7
31.5
27.0
37.8
1
38.2
1 Restated. Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 21
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
We report on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard and the UK Government’s Environmental Reporting Guidance 
methodologies together with the emissions conversion factors from DEFRA/DECC GHG conversion 
factors for Company Reporting 2015. In line with this guidance, we have reported the emissions 
sources
*
 that are required. These sources fall within businesses included in our consolidated financial 
statements.
Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO 2e). Our relative performance 
metric is kilogrammes of CO 2e emissions per passenger journey. 
Overall CO 2 emissions have increased in the year, largely due to the introduction of the GTR rail franchise. 
* Emissions from air conditioning equipment in our premises and vehicles are not included in this analysis due to the  
difficulty in obtaining this data. These emissions account for less than 0.5% of our total GHG emissions and are therefore  
not considered material.
2014/15 2013/14
CO2e  
tonnes  
(‘000)
CO2e  
tonnes  
(‘000) Scope 1
Passenger journeys (m) 1,241.20 1,152.6
Gas (buses) kwhs (m) 6.9
11.3
7.3
9.2
Gas (premises) kwhs (m) 54.5 42.3
Bus diesel (10% bio-diesel blend) ltrs (m) 127.6 329.8 128.1 333.4
Rail diesel ltrs (m) 18.4 53.5 17.7 51.8
Scope 2
Traction electricity kwhs
1
 (m) 1,288.4 595.5 1,002.1 495.3
Site electricity kwhs (m) 100.3 46.3 85.1 42.1
Scope 3
Electricity – transmission and distribution  
losses within the grid 53.0 47.0
Sub total 1,089.5 978.8
Kgs CO 2 per passenger journey 0.88 0.85
Outside scopes
Biogenic content of bio-diesel
2
11.0 8.0
T otal 1,100.5 986.8
1 Traction electricity consumption data relates to the period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. This provides the most  
accurate figure for consumption.
2 The biogenic content of bio-diesel is considered outside scope as there is no conversion factor for our baseline year.  
Emissions from this source are reported for 2014/15 but are excluded from the calculation of our relative performance  
metric as comparative data is not available.  
We define our organisational reporting boundary by applying the financial control approach with a materiality threshold  
set at 5%.
REDUCTION IN CARBON EMISSIONS 
PER PASSENGER JOURNEY
1 
What does it mean? We monitor the carbon 
emissions from our operations for every passenger 
we carry. CO 2 conversion factors
2
 are used to 
measure overall CO 2 emissions which are then 
measured per passenger journey.
Why is it important? It helps us to measure  
against our commitment to improve energy 
efficiency while contributing to government  
and local authority carbon reduction targets  
and providing a greener way for our passengers  
to travel. Good performance in this area also 
reduces cost through fuel efficiency.
Risks Our objective to run our companies in an 
environmentally responsible manner would be 
impacted by poor performance against this KPI. 
Poor performance could result in reputational  
risk for the Group and higher costs. 
2015 performance Carbon emissions per  
passenger journey have reduced 9.3% since 
2007/08. The year on year performance in this 
metric declined, largely due to the introduction of 
the GTR rail franchise, which has higher than Group 
average CO 2 emissions per passenger journey.
On a like for like basis, removing the impact 
of bus acquisitions and new rail franchises, the 
improvement is 15.9% against the same baseline 
year as a result of initiatives introduced by the 
Group. This underlying performance is below  
our original target reduction of 20%.
2018 target T o reduce like for like carbon emissions 
per passenger journey by 10%. This is against a 
challenging baseline as we have already made 
significant improvements in this area. 
REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration is linked to 
performance against this strategic priority, 
particularly relating to health and safety. 
Read more in the directors’ remuneration report  
on pages 70 to 85 
15
10
5
0
11 12 13 14 15
CARBON EMISSIONS PER 
PASSENGER JOURNEY (%)
12.3
14.0
15.0
12.2
9.3
1 Reduction since 2007/2008 baseline.
2 Conversion factors, updated annually and provided by the Government, are used to convert energy consumption into the equivalent carbon emissions. 22 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90%
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION IN  
INDEPENDENT BUS PASSENGER SURVEY
700,000 CARDS
UK’S LARGEST SMARTCARD  
SCHEME OUTSIDE LONDON www.go-ahead.com 23
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t
CUSTOMER 
FOCUSED
PROVIDING SERVICES THAT CUSTOMERS WANT, NEED AND 
VALUE IS FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR BUSINESS AS WE SEEK  
TO ATTRACT NEW CUSTOMERS AND RETAIN EXISTING ONES
CUSTOMERS
The new products and services we offer, and the changes we make, 
are a reflection of what customers tell us that they want through their 
conversations with staff, local suggestion schemes, social media and via 
more formal feedback such as surveys and research. 
This year we received a 90% customer satisfaction rating in the 
independent 2014 national bus passenger survey* – the highest of the UK’s 
five largest operators. This result is encouraging but we know continual 
improvement is required and have increased the amount of research 
undertaken to assist in understanding our customers and improve their 
experience on our services. Every year more than 20,000 of our customers 
respond to surveys. Our Group companies engage ‘passenger panels’ for 
day-to-day feedback and also to take part in one-off focus groups. As a 
direct result of comments a number of improvements have been made  
to enhance the onboard experience such as the introduction of WiFi on 
many of our regional bus routes, handy usb phone charger sockets, and 
even increased padding in seat cushions. It is these small things, they tell  
us, that make a big difference to people’s daily journeys. 
DIGITAL INFORMATION AND TICKETS
We continue to work to enhance the real-time information for customers 
with new releases and upgrades to our bus and rail apps. The latest 
versions provide dynamic banner messages and in-app messages, improved 
personalisation, filters and live updates. We are leading the field in our 
sector in this area with increased payment options features such as  
Pingit and also – at the request of parents buying passes for teenage 
children – delegated payment options. 
Our smartcard scheme remains the largest in the UK outside London’s 
Oyster scheme and our mobile ticketing (m-tickets) products continue 
to grow in popularity with more than 2m m-tickets purchased on 
smartphones in the past year. 
Working in partnership with other transport providers we have launched 
joint-operator smartcard and m-ticket schemes with local authorities in 
Oxford, Brighton and Newcastle. The introduction of ‘the key’ smartcard 
on its services won Southern the T echnological Innovation category at the 
Rail Business Awards. The key smartcard is truly multi-modal and as well as 
Southern trains can be used on local Brighton & Hove buses and London’s 
underground and bus network. 
INTEGRATED TRAVEL: TRAIN, BUS, PLANE
Go-Ahead bus and rail companies serving Gatwick have collaborated with 
the airport to assist its employees, as well as airline passengers, to travel 
there from the South Coast in the early hours of the morning before train 
services begin. Metrobus and rail company Southern offer a joint ticket 
allowing travel out by bus and return by train. ‘Early bird’ bus services were 
introduced in May 2015, ahead of the busy summer period. The service 
has been promoted by Metrobus as well as Southern and Southeastern 
train companies and Gatwick has provided Metrobus with retail space 
in the main terminal to promote and sell bus and rail tickets. The joint 
project benefits both organisations, assisting the airport’s allocation of shift 
rota times, reducing staff numbers required, and also providing Go-Ahead 
additional revenue from the new routes.
*  Statutory independent watchdog T ransport Focus national bus passenger survey 2014. 
  Read more customer case studies online, visit: www.go-ahead.com   24 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED
REGIONAL BUS PUNCTUALITY
What does it mean? The punctuality of our  
regional bus operations is measured as a  
percentage of buses which arrive at their stop 
between one minute before and five minutes  
after their scheduled time. Therefore, the higher  
the percentage the better. 
Why is it important? Service punctuality is 
important to our passengers and is key to  
helping us grow passenger numbers.
Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer 
satisfaction. If our customers are not satisfied  
with the service they receive they may switch  
to other operators or other modes of transport 
such as driving, cycling or walking.
2015 performance 86.9% of our regional bus 
services ran on time. This decline on last year’s 
performance is due to congestion and roadworks 
in some of our operating areas preventing us from 
running punctual services and a number of our 
operating companies moving to a new real-time 
monitoring system, providing more accurate data. 
2020 target Achieve regional bus punctuality of  
over 95% in line with industry targets.
LIKE FOR LIKE PASSENGER  
VOLUME GROWTH
What does it mean? We measure the number  
of passenger journeys taken on our regional bus 
and rail services compared with the previous year.  
This is measured on a like for like basis. 
As we are contracted on the basis of mileage  
in our London bus division, we do not measure 
passenger numbers.
Why is it important? We track this metric closely 
as performance against our rail franchise bid 
assumptions and progress towards our bus 
operating profit targets are significantly impacted  
by passenger volumes.
Risks Decreasing volumes could be an indication  
of performance issues within our operations  
or changes in economic or market conditions,  
all of which could impact on the Group’s  
overall performance. 
2015 performance In regional bus, like for like 
volumes fell 1.4% due to challenging economic 
conditions in the north east and roadworks in 
Oxford and Brighton deterring bus travel. This 
decline follows many years of consistent growth of 
over 1%, against a backdrop of declining volumes 
in the wider UK bus industry, outside London. This 
growth has been supported by our geographical 
focus in more economically resilient areas and our 
approach to marketing our high quality services.
In rail, we continued to deliver consistent growth 
throughout the challenging economic period from 
2008 and this has continued in the year, with like  
for like growth of 3.9%.
We have made improvements over a period of 
time including sales channels, off-peak services  
and marketing.
2020 target T o maintain growth at broadly similar 
levels to those consistently delivered in recent years.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
What does it mean? Customer satisfaction is 
measured by the independent passenger watchdog, 
Transport Focus. Surveys are conducted twice a 
year for our rail franchises and annually for our 
regional bus operations. 
Our primary customer in London bus is TfL. We 
measure satisfaction by performance against TfL 
performance targets, such as excess waiting time. 
Why is it important? Providing high quality service 
is a strategic priority for the Group and monitoring 
customer satisfaction is a key measure of our 
performance. Identifying potential issues allows  
us to take action to improve our services.
Risks If our customers are not satisfied with  
the service they receive they may switch to  
other operators or other modes of transport  
such as driving, cycling or walking.
2015 performance In bus, we achieved the highest 
overall passenger satisfaction score in the UK bus 
industry, at 90%. One of our companies scored 98%, 
the highest recorded score in the UK bus market.
Rail scores declined slightly in the year to 
76%, impacted by the significant infrastructure 
improvements taking place as part of the 
Government’s £6.5bn Thameslink Programme.  
We continue to work closely with Network Rail  
to improve performance on the networks on which 
we operate.
The average score for train operators in London 
and the south east is 78% and the industry average 
for bus passenger satisfaction in England is 88%.
2020 target T o maintain our sector leading bus 
passenger satisfaction scores and improve on levels 
of customer satisfaction in the rail division, bringing 
them in line with the industry average for the 
London and south east network.
CUSTOMERS
To provide high quality, locally focused passenger  
transport services
PASSENGER VOLUME GROWTH (%)
Rail Regional bus
5
3
4
2
1
-1
0
-2
11 12 13 14 15
2.3 2.3
2.1
2.8
2.0
1.1
1.9
3.9
(1.4)
4.8
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (%)
Rail Regional bus
100
80
60
91
82
90
83
90
78
77
90
76
92
40
20
0
13 11 12 14 15
100
80
60
40
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
REGIONAL BUS PUNCTUALITY (%)
90.2 90.0
91.2
90.0
86.9 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 25
REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration is linked to 
performance against this strategic priority, 
particularly relating to customer satisfaction.
Read more in the directors’ remuneration report  
on pages 70 to 85 
LONDON BUS PUNCTUALITY
What does it mean? The punctuality of London bus 
operations is measured by excess waiting time. This 
is the time passengers have to wait for a bus above 
the average scheduled waiting time. The lower the 
excess waiting time, the better the performance.
Why is it important? Service punctuality is 
important to the passengers we carry on behalf 
of TfL. We earn extra revenue through Quality 
Incentive Contract (QIC) bonus payments  
if we exceed TfL punctuality targets, on a  
contract route basis. Contract extensions  
are based on performance.
Risks Poor performance could result in lower QIC 
bonus payments and contracts not being extended. 
2015 performance Average excess waiting time  
was 1.21 minutes below, a decline in performance 
of 15.2%. The industry average is 1.09 minutes.
Performance has been significantly impacted by 
roadworks and congestion associated with public 
rail improvements and the cycle super highway, 
affecting our ability to run services in line with 
targets. This has impacted the amount of revenue 
generated through Quality Incentive Contract 
bonuses in the year.
2020 target Achieve low average excess waiting 
time of below one minute, in line with TfL’s targets.
RAIL PUNCTUALITY 
What does it mean? The punctuality of our rail 
operations is measured on the basis of the DfT’s 
Public Performance Measure (PPM) on a moving 
annual average basis. PPM is the percentage of  
trains that arrive at their final destination within  
five minutes of their scheduled arrival time. 
Why is it important? Service punctuality is 
important to our passengers. Our PPM 
performance forms part of our franchise 
agreements with the DfT. 
Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer 
satisfaction. Poor performance could result in 
customers stopping using our services. Breach  
of franchise agreement terms could lead to  
financial penalties or ultimately result in the  
loss of a franchise.
2015 performance Overall PPM for our rail 
companies was 86.7%. This is a decline of 0.2ppt 
against the prior year. Performance against this 
metric has been impacted for the last two years 
by infrastructure issues and improvements. We 
continue to work closely with Network Rail to 
improve performance on the networks on which 
we operate. Around 60% of delay minutes are  
as a result of incidents outside our control.
Southeastern saw a particular improvement in 
the year up to 89.4%, reflecting network changes 
associated with the Thameslink Programme, while 
Southern’s performance was adversely impacted 
by this, seeing performance dip to 82.7%. London 
Midland improved slightly on its performance 
last year at 87.6%, as continued focus has been 
placed on improving operational performance 
in this franchise. GTR achieved a similar level of 
performance at 87.3%. 
Our franchises form part of the London and South 
East network for which the average PPM is 88.9%. 
The overall national rail industry average is 89.7%.
2020 target Increase levels of punctuality in all our 
franchises to 92.5% or above, in accordance with 
the ORR’s London and South East operators’  
2019 target.
100
80
60
40
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
RAIL PUNCTUALITY (%)
89.4
90.3
88.1
86.9 86.7
1.5
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
0
11 12 13 14 15
LONDON BUS PUNCTUALITY 
(minutes)
0.98
0.95
0.88
1.05
1.21 26 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
800
INCREASE IN FEMALE EMPLOYEES  
ACROSS THE GROUP
*   Includes 470 GTR employees.
 £14.6m
INVESTED IN TRAINING AND  
DEVELOPMENT THIS YEAR
2014 2015
2,900
3,700* www.go-ahead.com 27
OUR PEOPLE
VALUING  
OUR PEOPLE
IT IS IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE AN ORGANISATION THAT VALUES AND 
RESPECTS ITS EMPLOYEES AND WE WORK HARD TO MAKE SURE THERE 
IS A POSITIVE, INCLUSIVE CULTURE ACROSS ALL OUR BUSINESSES 
We know that engaged, motivated employees are likely to go ‘above and 
beyond’ for colleagues and customers and have fewer absent work days,  
all of which have clear benefits for the organisation. 
HEAL TH AND WELLBEING
We have strong evidence showing that our employee wellbeing initiatives, 
promoting and supporting healthy lifestyles for staff, increase engagement 
and reduce absence. Across the UK absenteeism costs businesses around 
£30bn a year
*
 so our internal ‘better together’ forums have focused on 
sharing wellbeing best practice initiatives across the Group. As a result 
Southeastern has been recognised by Business in the Community for 
integrating wellbeing into the company’s culture resulting in reduced  
levels of absence and improved engagement. 
INCREASING DIVERSITY
We operate in increasingly diverse communities and recognise and 
appreciate the diversity of our customers, employees, suppliers and other 
stakeholders. We believe that a diverse workforce is likely to assist us 
in being more adaptable to social, technological and political changes as 
they occur, as it is an important component to combat ‘groupthink’ and 
helps stimulate innovation. Employing people who are a reflection of the 
community they are based within is also important, and demonstrating  
our work in this area can assist when bidding for new contracts. 
Over past decades, our largest employee groups such as bus and train 
drivers and engineers, have traditionally attracted male candidates and, 
once recruited, we retain high proportions of these staff. Currently, as 
expected, we have a disproportionately higher percentage of men working 
for the Group than women, which we are taking steps to address. Over 
the past year we’ve increased the number of women overall by 800, a small 
step but moving in the right direction. This of course is not an issue that 
affects Go-Ahead in isolation, with a national shortage of engineers and 
fewer girls taking up engineering at higher education level
**
. 
T o increase diversity, we have active recruitment campaigns to encourage 
more female applicants and make our businesses more attractive to both 
potential employees and customers. It makes good business sense to 
recruit and retain the best people of all backgrounds. Encouraging diversity 
and inclusion works to create a culture of equity and opportunity where 
differences are celebrated and hardworking people, from any background, 
can rise through the organisation. This in turn has a positive influencing 
effect with external applicants recognising Go-Ahead as an attractive 
employer to work for. 
COACHING LEADERS
Retaining experienced, valuable people is good business practice and we 
have strong succession plans at local and Group level with well-established 
schemes to identify those with potential to be the managers and leaders  
of the future. 
Go-Ahead is committed to a coaching and mentoring approach for 
the professional and personal development of our leaders, managers 
and supervisors. This is an important component of ensuring that our 
workforce remains flexible to adapt to changing environments and markets. 
The pace of technological, social and political change makes it likely that a 
manager’s traditional reliance on technical or functional expertise will no 
longer be enough. Challenges are now being faced that leaders may not 
have experienced before – and a coaching approach to problem solving 
and personal development enables leaders to continue to support teams 
effectively and in turn ensure the long term sustainability of our business. 
* 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
**  2011 Engineering UK: An investigation into why the UK has the lowest proportion of  
female engineers in the EU.
  Read more our people case studies online, visit: www.go-ahead.com  
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t 28 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX
What does it mean? We measure how engaged 
our people are through annual independent staff 
surveys, conducted across our businesses.
Why is it important? Go-Ahead strives to be an 
employer of choice in the transport sector and 
values the insight gained from employee feedback. 
In addition to making Go-Ahead an attractive place 
to work, high levels of employee engagement will 
contribute to the success of the Group.
Risks Low levels of employee engagement could 
result in reduced productivity and higher levels of 
absence or staff turnover, all of which would impact 
on resource planning across the business.
2015 performance In the year, our bus division 
recorded levels of employee engagement of 46%, 
up 6ppts on last year’s performance. 
We have ‘people plans’ in place across all of our 
businesses and over the last few years have made 
significant improvements in areas such as personal 
development and performance management. 
We seek to engage effectively with teams and 
individuals at a local level, while maintaining a  
Group identity. We value the experience and 
opinions of our people.
2020 target All of our bus and rail companies set 
their own challenging targets to increase levels  
of employee engagement. 
Overall, our aim is to improve our levels of 
engagement each year, remaining above the  
average for large businesses.
ABSENTEEISM 
What does it mean? We measure employee 
absence by the percentage of scheduled hours  
not worked due to unplanned absence from work. 
Why is it important? High levels of absenteeism 
could be reflective of low levels of staff satisfaction 
and engagement. By monitoring levels of absence 
we are able to identify areas of the business with 
potential employee relations or staff shortage  
issues. This also helps us with our resource  
planning and allocation.
Risks Staff shortages could impact on our ability 
to deliver our services at the frequency, level of 
punctuality and to the standard we aim to achieve.
2015 performance In the year, the overall rate of 
Group absence was 3.9%, with 3.8% in our bus 
division and 4.0% in rail. 
Our local management teams aim to foster good 
relations with employees and seek to identify any 
issues that may arise resulting in periods of absence.
2020 target Maintain low levels of absenteeism, 
below the national average.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 
What does it mean? Employee turnover is 
measured by the percentage of employees who 
leave the business in a defined time period. 
Why is it important? High levels of employee 
turnover could be reflective of low levels of staff 
satisfaction and engagement. By monitoring levels 
of turnover we are able to identify areas of the 
business with potential employee relations issues. 
This also helps to identify issues such as staff 
shortage and assists us in resource planning  
and allocation.
Risks Staff shortages could impact our ability to 
deliver our services at the frequency, level of 
punctuality and to the standard we aim to achieve.
2015 performance The overall rate of employee 
turnover was 10.5% for the Group, with 14.6%  
in our bus division and 6.2% in rail. 
We aim to develop and incentivise our people  
to encourage low levels of employee turnover.
Levels of turnover are regularly monitored.  
Our local management teams are best placed  
to respond to changing levels of turnover. 
It is important to consider the economic climate  
in relation to this KPI as the wider job market  
can impact turnover levels.
2020 target Maintain consistently low levels of 
employee turnover.
OUR PEOPLE
To be a leading employer in the transport sector
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX (%)
1
Bus Rail
80
60
70
50
40
30
20
10
0
62
45
40
63
2
46
60
13 11 12 14 15
4
3
2
1
0
11 12 13 14 15
ABSENTEEISM (%)
3.8
3.6
3.9 3.9 3.9
12
10
8
4
6
2
0
11 12 13 14 15
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (%)
10.5
10.4
9.4 9.4
10.5
1 Go-Ahead began conducting employee engagement surveys across our business in 2012/13. Data for previous years is therefore not available. 
2 Due to timing of surveys taking place, this figure includes 2014/15 survey data for Southeastern and 2013/14 data for Southern and London Midland. Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 29
Our aim is to be the employer of choice in the sector. The safety and wellbeing of our people is our 
priority and we pride ourselves on the health and safety standards we maintain across the Group.  
Our organisational values and culture encourage an environment through which individuals can  
thrive and develop. 
We seek to provide opportunities for personal and professional development 
and to recognise and reward excellence. We are committed to protecting 
the rights of our people and believe in equal opportunities at all levels of 
the business. During the year, we developed our ‘people plans’ across the 
organisation from the Boardroom to front line operational employees.
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
Go-Ahead recognises the value of diversity in all areas and at all levels of the 
business. During the year, a Group diversity forum was established comprising 
individuals from across the business. An area of particular focus for the forum 
in the year was gender diversity. We continue to ensure that there is no bias 
towards either gender and that all appointments and internal promotions are 
made on the basis of merit. 
The Group believes in equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion 
or belief, sexual orientation, race and, where practicable, disability. We give 
full and fair consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, 
considering their particular aptitudes and abilities. In respect of existing 
employees who may become disabled, the Group’s policy is to provide 
continuing employment and appropriate training, career development  
and promotion of disabled people employed by the Group.
HUMAN RIGHTS
We are committed to protecting the rights of our people, customers, 
suppliers and other stakeholders. This commitment is reflected in our  
Group policies and procedures. 
View all our Group policies at: www.go-ahead.com 
OUR LOCAL APPROACH
Go-Ahead has always operated through a devolved management structure, 
with local teams entrusted and empowered to run their businesses effectively. 
Our operating company management teams are best placed to respond to 
the needs of local customers and communities. This approach allows flexibility 
and fast action which we believe gives us competitive advantage in the 
markets we serve. This local focus is complemented by skills, expertise and 
support at Group level in areas such as marketing, IT and procurement and 
we work together, sharing experience and expertise around the Group. 
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
We seek to engage effectively with teams and individuals at a local level, while 
maintaining a Group identity. We value the experience and opinions of our 
people and conduct annual employee engagement surveys across the Group. 
Response rates to these surveys increased compared to the prior year as 
people are increasingly seeing their feedback being put into practice. Almost 
all of our workforce is represented by trade unions and we strive to foster 
good relationships with union representatives, acknowledging the impact of 
poor employee relations on our success.
REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, 
including employee engagement.
Read more in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 70 to 85 
BOARD GENDER DIVERSITY
Female    17% Male    83% Female    18% Male    82%
SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
GENDER DIVERSITY
OVERALL GROUP 
GENDER DIVERSITY
Male    86% Female    14% 30 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCE
TRANSPARENT 
AND OPEN
RUNNING OUR BUSINESS WITH STRONG FINANCIAL 
DISCIPLINE TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE COVERS A WIDE RANGE OF ACTIVITIES 
We have been recognised for our transparency and openness and on  
the launch of the voluntary Fair Tax Scheme in 2014 became the first 
company in the FTSE 350 to be awarded the Fair Tax Mark. Our Board 
continues to work toward being assessed as ‘low risk’ by HMRC and 
ensures that the Group adheres to the revised tax policy adopted in  
2014 of not undertaking tax planning or making use of tax havens.
ETHICAL PROCUREMENT
Our ethical procurement approach is embedded in our supply chain 
procurement and management processes. As a buyer of goods and services 
we have a responsibility for the supply chains from which these goods and 
services come into our organisation. We will take into account ethical as 
well as commercial and technical factors, when considering which suppliers 
to partner with. 
We encourage our suppliers to adhere to similar high standards of 
corporate responsibility as our own businesses and to have in place 
appropriate safeguards against bribery, corruption and facilitation payments. 
In particular, we expect our suppliers to be committed to high standards  
of health and safety and demonstrate a respect for the environment.
PROMPT PAYMENT CODE
We seek to partner with suppliers to develop long-term business 
relationships that benefit both organisations with the aim of improving the 
quality, environmental performance and sustainability of goods and services. 
So, understanding the importance of paying suppliers promptly, particularly 
small suppliers, this year we have been accredited under the Prompt 
Payment Code (PPC). The code sets standards for payment practices and 
best practice and is administered by the Chartered Institute of Credit 
Management. Compliance with the principles of the code is monitored  
and it covers prompt payment, as well as wider payment procedures.
As well as the moral and fairness imperative to pay suppliers promptly, 
there is a real benefit to both the supplier and also to Go-Ahead as  
the customer. Strong, trusting and collaborative relationships with  
suppliers lead to more favourable contracts and services which increases 
our competitiveness. 
As an organisation that understands the importance of a reliable cashflow, 
we believe it is right to make sure our suppliers are paid on time. Late 
payments could damage suppliers’ businesses, which in turn could have a 
detrimental impact on ours. We consider this is not just good practice and 
ethical behaviour but is a demonstration of our responsible approach to 
business. It is this sustainable approach and the transparent reporting of 
our activities in this area that helps Go-Ahead demonstrate that it is an 
ethical fund for investment and can be a point of differentiation from  
other organisations in our sector.
  Read more Finance case studies online, visit: www.go-ahead.com   www.go-ahead.com 31
FIRST IN FTSE 350 TO ACHIEVE 
FAIR TAX MARK
FOR MOST EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION  
OF INVESTMENT PROPOSITION
IR award
1st
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t 32 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED
LIKE FOR LIKE REVENUE GROWTH 
What does it mean? For our rail operations, we 
measure revenue generated through the provision 
of passenger transport services. In our bus division, 
non-passenger revenue is less material, so we 
measure total revenue instead.
Why is it important? Growing revenue through  
a combination of growth in passenger numbers  
and modest fare increases drives operating  
profit growth.
Risks Inadequate levels of revenue growth can 
impact on profitability, reducing our ability to invest 
in the business and make returns to shareholders. 
2015 performance In regional bus, like for like 
revenue growth was 2.6%. Growth has slowed 
since prior years as passenger volumes have been 
impacted by economic conditions and roadworks  
in some of our operating areas.
London bus like for like revenue increased by 1.8%. 
Performance was slightly lower than expected 
due to a significant reduction in Quality Incentive 
Contract bonus revenue resulting from roadworks 
and congestion in the capital.
Like for like growth in rail revenue of 7.3% is the 
result of growth in passenger numbers and rail 
fares set by the Government. Rail fare increases 
are passed back to the Government through the 
premium or subsidy payment of each franchise.
Read more about our bus and rail performance from  
pages 40 to 47 
2020 target T o maintain growth at broadly  
similar levels to those consistently delivered  
over recent years.
OPERATING PROFIT
What does it mean? We measure operating profit 
before amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional items to provide more comparable 
year-on-year information. 
Why is it important? This helps us measure 
the underlying performance of our operating 
companies. Profit growth enables us to reinvest  
in the business and deliver shareholder value.
Risks Inadequate levels of profitability can reduce 
our ability to invest in the business and make 
returns to shareholders.
2015 performance T otal Group operating profit  
was £114.7m, up 11.1%. Bus operating profit of 
£89.0m was marginally behind our expectations, 
despite an increase of 6.6% year on year, as 
passenger revenue growth in our regional  
bus operations slowed, and Quality Incentive 
Contract revenue declined in our London  
business. As a result, we now believe we will  
achieve £100m of bus operating profit during  
the course of 2016/17, one year later than  
originally expected.
Our rail division performance was ahead of our 
initial expectations with operating profit for the 
year of £25.7m, up 30.5%, helped by contract 
management benefits in the second half of the year, 
albeit at historically low margins of 1.1%.
Bus target: T o achieve £100 of bus operating profit 
in 2016/17, a year later than originally expected.
Rail target: Deliver value from existing franchises  
and achieve margins nearer industry average of 3%.
ADJUSTED NET DEBT/EBITDA
What does it mean? This ratio is used to indicate 
the Group’s ability to pay down its debt from 
earnings. Adjusted net debt, which is total net debt 
plus restricted cash in our rail division, is measured 
against earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA).
Why is it important? We have a bank covenant 
limit of 3.5x and are required to remain below this 
level. This ratio also helps us measure against our 
commitment to preserve a strong capital structure 
and maintain our investment grade credit ratings.
Risks Exceeding the bank covenant limit of  
3.5x cover.
2015 performance In line with management’s 
expectations, adjusted net debt to EBITDA  
was 1.32x, slightly below our target range.
Adjusted net debt reduced by £15.3m to  
£244.7m in the year, while EBITDA was up  
by £21.3m to £185.2m.
2020 target T o maintain adjusted net debt/EBITDA 
within our target range of 1.5x and 2.5x throughout 
the economic cycle.
FINANCE
To run our business with strong financial discipline  
to deliver sustainable shareholder value 
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
OPERATING PROFIT (£m)
115.1
110.2
86.7
103.2
114.7
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
11 12 13 14 15
ADJUSTED NET DEBT/EBITDA (X)
1.58
1.80
1.87
1.45
1.32*
LIKE FOR LIKE REVENUE GROWTH (%)
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
11 12 13 14 15
5.1
4.7
4.3
4.3
7.5
6.1
2.6
7.3
1.8
5.0
6.9
5.8
9.6
8.6
(2.3)
Rail London bus Regional bus
* Not adjusted for the impact of IAS 19 (revised), in line with 
new 2019 revolving credit facility. Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 33
REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration is linked to 
performance against this strategic priority, 
particularly relating to operating profit  
and cashflow.
Read more in the directors’ remuneration report  
on pages 70 to 85 
CASHFLOW/EBITDA
What does it mean? This ratio is used to  
monitor the conversion of operating profit  
into operating cash.
Why is it important? Good performance against 
this KPI demonstrates strong working capital 
management and financial discipline. Strong cash 
generation provides liquidity.
Risks Not generating sufficient earnings to reinvest 
in the business.
2015 performance Cashflow generated from 
operations was 2.33 times EBITDA, with the year 
on year increase largely due to the introduction  
of the GTR franchise in September 2014. 
In particular, £107m of working capital benefit in 
2014/15 was due to the timing of GTR franchise 
payments, which is expected to reverse in 2015/16.
We manage payments and receipts closely to 
convert operating profit into operating cash.
The nature of our rail business can lead to large 
working capital movements at certain times of  
year, which can result in some fluctuations from  
year to year due to timing of payments and receipts. 
Our London bus contracts run for five years with 
a possible two year extension. Capital expenditure 
requirements in this division are impacted by the 
timing of contract renewals. 
2020 target T o match or exceed cashflow 
generated from operations to EBITDA.
DIVIDEND COVER
What does it mean? We measure the level by which 
our dividend payments can be covered by earnings 
(adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend 
per share).
Why is it important? We are committed to 
delivering shareholder value through our dividend 
policy. We measure our dividend cover to help 
us assess how much of our profits we can pay to 
shareholders as a dividend whilst allowing sufficient 
retained earnings to invest in the business.
Risks Insufficient or unsustainable dividend cover 
could result in the dividend being reduced.
2015 performance Dividend cover was in line  
with our policy at 2.02 times earnings on a  
pre-IAS 19 basis.
Further to a 4.3% increase in the interim dividend, 
the Board has proposed a final dividend of 63.4p 
per share, increasing the full year dividend to 90.0p, 
up 5.5p or 6.5%, from 84.5p.
Had the dividend been maintained at 84.5p, cover 
would have been 2.15 times earnings.
2020 target Maintain adequate dividend cover 
throughout the economic cycle, in line with our 
policy of two times cover, excluding the impact of 
1AS 19 (revised).
2.5
1.875
1.25
0.625
0
11 12 13 14 15
CASHFLOW/EBITDA (X)
0.84
1.02
0.87
1.12
2.33
2.5
1.875
1.25
0.625
0
11 12 13 14 15
DIVIDEND COVER (X)
1.67
1.75
1.72
2.04
2.02 34 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
MANAGING RISK
“ Understanding our key risks and having appropriate 
processes of mitigation in place are integral to 
achieving our strategic priorities and fundamental 
to the long term success of the Group.” 
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
The Group’s risk and governance framework allows the Board to understand 
the Group’s most significant risk exposures and manage them accordingly within 
agreed levels of risk appetite and tolerance. Go-Ahead takes a conservative 
view of risk and attempts to minimise its exposure to undue risk. This is 
reflected in the Group’s strategy. 
Risk is always high on the Board’s agenda and this focus on effective risk 
management cascades all the way through the organisation. The culture of the 
organisation ensures that all activities, from day-to-day operations to high level 
strategic decisions, are performed in line with this approach.
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
Through our robust and well-established risk management and internal control 
systems, we are able to identify, assess and prioritise risks to our business and 
seek to minimise, monitor and control their probability and impact whilst 
maximising the opportunities they present. Risks are monitored on an ongoing 
basis through our risk management processes and are mitigated through the 
internal control environment. Residual risks are assessed and it is determined 
whether they will be accepted as an integral part of the business, or deemed 
unacceptable and therefore either reduced, transferred to third parties or 
avoided by no longer pursuing the relevant activities. In addition to reports 
from the Group’s internal auditors and health and safety consultants, external 
auditors’ reports and updates from the executive directors were regularly 
reviewed by the audit committee during the year.
In 2015/16, the audit committee will continue to review the Group’s risk 
management and internal control processes in line with the changes arising 
from the new UK Governance Code and FRC Guidelines on risk management.
WHO IS INVOLVED IN RISK MANAGEMENT
All of our employees are required to manage risks of varying levels in their roles. 
We empower our people to take responsibility for risks facing them or their 
colleagues, our passengers, the general public and the success of the Group.  
The diagram on page 35 illustrates the key roles and responsibilities of each  
of the respective functions within our formalised risk management framework.
Ultimate accountability for risk management lies with the Board, supported 
by the work of the audit committee, to which the Board has delegated 
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems. With clear leadership from the Board and audit 
committee, the executive directors play an integral role in helping the operating 
companies identify, assess and monitor their respective risks and controls. 
Through monthly meetings with the senior management of each operating 
company, the executive directors encourage open bottom-up communication 
on risk matters within a clearly defined framework and reporting process. 
Ownership of risk identification and mitigation lies with senior management 
in the operating companies, where it is an integral part of day-to-day local 
company operations.
WHAT ARE OUR RISKS
Go-Ahead is exposed to a range of risks with varying likelihoods and impacts. 
These risks could impact our performance, business model, strategy and our 
stakeholders and are therefore closely monitored and managed. 
This report includes risks considered by the Group to be financially or 
reputationally material and relevant to the year under review. Longer term risks, 
including environmental risks, are also reviewed and managed by the Board. 
The tables on pages 36 to 39 summarise our assessment of the key risks  
that could have a material impact on the Group’s performance, strategy  
or business model. 
WHERE TO FIND OUT MORE
More detail of Go-Ahead’s risk management and internal control framework 
can be found in the corporate governance report from page 56 of this report.
Adrian Ewer, 
Chairman of the audit committee
2 September 2015 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 35
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
• Leadership of risk management, sets strategic 
objectives and risk appetite. Monitors performance
• Accountable for the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control and risk management processes
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
• Communicate and disseminate risk policies 
• Support and help operating companies to assess risk 
• Encourage open communication on risk matters 
• Oversee risk management 
• Monitor performance 
• Assess materiality of risks in the context of the  
whole Group. Monitor mitigation and controls
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee 
risk management and internal controls 
• Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control and risk management processes 
• Monitors the role and effectiveness of the internal 
auditors and the independence and expertise of  
the external auditors
INTERNAL AUDIT
• Facilitate sharing of risk management information  
and best practice across the Group
OPERATING COMPANY BOARD
• Define risk management roles at operational  
and project level
• Use approach to risk as an explicit part of decision-
making and management of external relationships
• Continuous identification of risk, assurance and  
self-assessment
BOARD  
OF  
DIRECTORS
AUDIT COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
INTERNAL 
AUDIT
T op down
Bottom up
OPERATING COMPANY BOARDS
CYBER SECURITY 
The increasing threat of cyber security attacks
*
 is an area which Go-Ahead 
is taking very seriously and working hard to mitigate. A dedicated Group 
function has been established to oversee this activity and to ensure best 
practice protection and implemented Group-wide. Guidance on the remedial 
action steps to take is also part of the damage limitation. As well as sound 
business continuity and reputational reasons to focus attention and resource 
in this area, a recent KPMG survey
**
 highlights that investors would be 
discouraged from investing in a business that has been hacked. 
We have implemented a set of controls into operational and support systems 
which provides Group companies protection from the most prevalent forms 
of threat coming from the internet and, by doing so, we have been awarded 
Cyber Essentials Certification in the Government-backed, industry-supported 
scheme. The certification means we can demonstrate we are secure and are 
protecting our businesses against common cyber attacks. 
An internal communications campaign, underpinned by training and company 
policy, encourages our employees to report any security breach no matter 
how insignificant it may seem. 
IT and technical solutions can minimise the risk of a security breach but it  
is very often employees’ working practices which are where the risks lie.  
So behaviour and common practice need to be continually monitored to 
ensure the effectiveness of the technical and procedural controls in place  
and minimise the vulnerability of our security systems.
All breaches, vulnerability and system malfunctions, whether accidental or 
malicious, are reported so that the effectiveness of existing controls can 
be monitored and new countermeasures can be introduced as required. 
Vulnerable areas can be identified and positive corrective action taken, leading 
to potential significant savings against the cost of investigation and recovery 
following a security breach.
* The number of security incidents detected climbed by 25% from 2012 to 2013 and the  
average losses per incidents by 23% over the same period: PwC’s Annual Global Information 
Security Survey.
** April 2015 Institutional investors shy away from hacked businesses: research conducted by  
FTI Consulting on behalf of KPMG. 
  Read more case studies online, visit: www.go-ahead.com  36 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
MANAGING RISK CONTINUED
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTION POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES OVERALL CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR
EXTERNAL
Economic 
environment
Negative impact on the Group’s businesses, largely 
through a reduction in demand for services. In rail, 
franchise bids make economic assumptions years  
into the future. A weaker economy can lead to  
under performance against bid targets and 
management’s expectations
• Continue to focus our operations in more resilient geographical areas
•  Local management constantly assesses the needs of local markets and tailors 
services and products accordingly
• Focus on driving volumes through innovative and targeted marketing
• Generate customer loyalty through initiatives such as smart-ticketing
• Proactive cost control
•  A more challenging economic environment encourages modal shift,  
as motorists seek value for money alternatives to the private car
•  Improvements in the economic environment can lead to increased 
employment and discretionary spending in shops and leisure facilities, 
which can result in more journeys being taken on public transport
•  Economic growth rates for the quarter ended June 2015 were 2.6%
1
 
for the UK. There are variances between geographical areas in the  
rate of recovery. For example, unemployment in north east England 
was around 7.7% compared to close to 5.6% in the rest of the UK
1
1 Office for National Statistics.
Political and 
regulatory 
framework
Changes in Government or to laws, regulations, 
policies (e.g. introduction of a Bus Bill, pressure on 
concessionary travel or BSOG, restrictions around 
vehicle specification devolution to TFL), local authority 
attitudes towards public transport and reductions  
in the availability of Government financial support 
could adversely impact the Group’s operations and 
financial position
•  Limited exposure to local authority funding. Our operations are predominantly 
commercial and do not require local authority funding
• Actively participate in key industry, trade and Government steering groups
• Maintain close relationships with key industry partners and stakeholders
•  Continually engage with all stakeholders to influence policies impacting  
the industry
•  Use internal initiatives across the business to offset the impact of external issues
•  Demonstrate the value delivered by the private sector through investment  
in services, responding quickly and flexibly to passengers’ needs
•  Changes in law, regulation or funding could positively impact the Group, 
potentially leading to increased funding or more flexibility for operators. 
For example, the potential introduction of local authority contract 
schemes outside London may increase our ability to bid for contracts  
in new areas
•  The political and regulatory framework provides us with the 
opportunity to influence decisions through close dialogue with  
the Government, local authorities and other key parties
•  Following the general election, uncertainty around the composition of 
the government has reduced. We engage with the new Government 
and play a role in helping to shape new policies. We also continue to 
engage with major political parties with a view to influencing policies 
impacting on the industry and Go-Ahead
•  The new Government has announced its intention to introduce a Bus 
Bill relating to bus franchising outside London. Details of this Bill are not 
yet known
•  Following a fourth consultation, proposals for a bus contract scheme in 
Tyne & Wear are being considered by the Quality Contracts Scheme 
Board. Its conclusion is expected to be announced in autumn 2015
STRATEGIC
Sustainability  
of rail profits
The sustainability of rail profits is dependent on a 
number of factors. The nature of the current rail 
franchising model leads to high volatility of earnings; 
failure to retain, win or successfully mobilise and 
integrate franchises could impact on the overall 
profitability of the Group; failure to comply with 
conditions of rail franchise agreements could lead  
to financial penalties or even the termination of  
a rail franchise
•  Flexible and experienced management team which responds quickly and 
expertly to changing circumstances
• Experienced permanent bid team well placed to produce compelling bid submissions
•  Shared risk through Govia, which is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35%  
by Keolis
•  Element of protection through revenue support arrangements on some 
contracts. Not all contracts are exposed to revenue risk
• Willingness to invest in performance improvements
•  Work constructively with industry partners, such as Network Rail, to  
deliver long term economic and infrastructure benefits
• Significant resource and financial investment in bidding for new franchises
•  Regular Board review of rail performance, and Board approval of overall  
rail bidding strategy
• Compliance with franchise conditions closely monitored
• Clear mobilisation and integration plans
•  The DfT’s rail franchise competition timetable is well underway.  
Several rail franchises are due to be awarded in the next three years, 
presenting growth opportunities for the Group
•  We continue to bid for new franchises, including Northern and 
TransPennine Express, and are shortlisted for London Overground
•  For contracts where we take revenue risk, there may be the 
opportunity for increased earnings if the economic climate is stronger 
than assumed in a franchise bid
•  The GTR franchise has seen a difficult start as a result of inherited 
operational issues, the impact of major infrastructure projects and 
network changes
•  We are heavily reliant on third parties, which have their own targets, 
budgets and deadlines to meet
•  We began operating Southeastern under new contract terms in 
October 2014 which will run until June 2018
•  Discussions continue with the DfT regarding the proposed extension  
of the London Midland franchise to October 2017
Inappropriate 
strategy or 
investment
Inappropriate strategic or investment decisions  
could adversely impact on the Group’s economic  
and shareholder value
• Comprehensive strategic discussions with main Board and advisors
• Extensive valuation and due diligence, supported by external expertise
• Maintain strong financial discipline when assessing viability of opportunities
• Minimum return on capital requirements of all investment opportunities
•  Cautious approach to investment opportunities overseas and outside our  
core operating areas
•  Continual focus on and review of strategy ensures the Board is  
well placed to assess value adding opportunities as they arise
•  Good strategic progress made during the year. Continued focus  
on delivering profit growth in bus. Future of rail secured to 2021 
through the GTR franchise
•  Go-Ahead has a clear strategy, communicated to all levels of  
the organisation
Competition Loss of business to other modes of transport, existing 
competitors or new market entrants in our markets 
could have a significant impact on business, such as  
new technology based start ups
• Work hard to maintain our good reputation with our customers
•  Provide convenient, value for money services offering cost effective alternatives 
to the private car
• Adapt to changing customer requirements and technological advancements
•  Foster close relationships with stakeholders to ensure we are meeting 
requirements including service quality and price
• Work in partnership with local authorities and other operators
•  Promote multi-modal travel, improving the overall door-to-door experience  
for passengers
•  Remain at the forefront of promoting and introducing inter-operable  
ticketing schemes
•  Focus on customer needs and expectations, including more channels for  
ticket purchase and journey planning 
•  Strategic partnerships, such as our joint-operator scheme with 
Stagecoach and the local authority in Oxford, may provide 
opportunities and aim to improve the passenger experience  
and perception of public transport as a whole
•  Increased competition in the market encourages innovation  
which improves the customer experience
•  The reduction in oil price, leading to lower fuel prices for motorists, 
could result in passengers taking more trips in private cars rather  
than choosing public transport
•  We are becoming increasingly experienced in developing inter-operable 
schemes, with initiatives launched in Go North East and Brighton since 
January 2015
• T echnology based start ups are entering transport markets Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 37
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTION POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES OVERALL CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR
EXTERNAL
Economic 
environment
Negative impact on the Group’s businesses, largely 
through a reduction in demand for services. In rail, 
franchise bids make economic assumptions years  
into the future. A weaker economy can lead to  
under performance against bid targets and 
management’s expectations
• Continue to focus our operations in more resilient geographical areas
•  Local management constantly assesses the needs of local markets and tailors 
services and products accordingly
• Focus on driving volumes through innovative and targeted marketing
• Generate customer loyalty through initiatives such as smart-ticketing
• Proactive cost control
•  A more challenging economic environment encourages modal shift,  
as motorists seek value for money alternatives to the private car
•  Improvements in the economic environment can lead to increased 
employment and discretionary spending in shops and leisure facilities, 
which can result in more journeys being taken on public transport
•  Economic growth rates for the quarter ended June 2015 were 2.6%
1
 
for the UK. There are variances between geographical areas in the  
rate of recovery. For example, unemployment in north east England 
was around 7.7% compared to close to 5.6% in the rest of the UK
1
1 Office for National Statistics.
Political and 
regulatory 
framework
Changes in Government or to laws, regulations, 
policies (e.g. introduction of a Bus Bill, pressure on 
concessionary travel or BSOG, restrictions around 
vehicle specification devolution to TFL), local authority 
attitudes towards public transport and reductions  
in the availability of Government financial support 
could adversely impact the Group’s operations and 
financial position
•  Limited exposure to local authority funding. Our operations are predominantly 
commercial and do not require local authority funding
• Actively participate in key industry, trade and Government steering groups
• Maintain close relationships with key industry partners and stakeholders
•  Continually engage with all stakeholders to influence policies impacting  
the industry
•  Use internal initiatives across the business to offset the impact of external issues
•  Demonstrate the value delivered by the private sector through investment  
in services, responding quickly and flexibly to passengers’ needs
•  Changes in law, regulation or funding could positively impact the Group, 
potentially leading to increased funding or more flexibility for operators. 
For example, the potential introduction of local authority contract 
schemes outside London may increase our ability to bid for contracts  
in new areas
•  The political and regulatory framework provides us with the 
opportunity to influence decisions through close dialogue with  
the Government, local authorities and other key parties
•  Following the general election, uncertainty around the composition of 
the government has reduced. We engage with the new Government 
and play a role in helping to shape new policies. We also continue to 
engage with major political parties with a view to influencing policies 
impacting on the industry and Go-Ahead
•  The new Government has announced its intention to introduce a Bus 
Bill relating to bus franchising outside London. Details of this Bill are not 
yet known
•  Following a fourth consultation, proposals for a bus contract scheme in 
Tyne & Wear are being considered by the Quality Contracts Scheme 
Board. Its conclusion is expected to be announced in autumn 2015
STRATEGIC
Sustainability  
of rail profits
The sustainability of rail profits is dependent on a 
number of factors. The nature of the current rail 
franchising model leads to high volatility of earnings; 
failure to retain, win or successfully mobilise and 
integrate franchises could impact on the overall 
profitability of the Group; failure to comply with 
conditions of rail franchise agreements could lead  
to financial penalties or even the termination of  
a rail franchise
•  Flexible and experienced management team which responds quickly and 
expertly to changing circumstances
• Experienced permanent bid team well placed to produce compelling bid submissions
•  Shared risk through Govia, which is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35%  
by Keolis
•  Element of protection through revenue support arrangements on some 
contracts. Not all contracts are exposed to revenue risk
• Willingness to invest in performance improvements
•  Work constructively with industry partners, such as Network Rail, to  
deliver long term economic and infrastructure benefits
• Significant resource and financial investment in bidding for new franchises
•  Regular Board review of rail performance, and Board approval of overall  
rail bidding strategy
• Compliance with franchise conditions closely monitored
• Clear mobilisation and integration plans
•  The DfT’s rail franchise competition timetable is well underway.  
Several rail franchises are due to be awarded in the next three years, 
presenting growth opportunities for the Group
•  We continue to bid for new franchises, including Northern and 
TransPennine Express, and are shortlisted for London Overground
•  For contracts where we take revenue risk, there may be the 
opportunity for increased earnings if the economic climate is stronger 
than assumed in a franchise bid
•  The GTR franchise has seen a difficult start as a result of inherited 
operational issues, the impact of major infrastructure projects and 
network changes
•  We are heavily reliant on third parties, which have their own targets, 
budgets and deadlines to meet
•  We began operating Southeastern under new contract terms in 
October 2014 which will run until June 2018
•  Discussions continue with the DfT regarding the proposed extension  
of the London Midland franchise to October 2017
Inappropriate 
strategy or 
investment
Inappropriate strategic or investment decisions  
could adversely impact on the Group’s economic  
and shareholder value
• Comprehensive strategic discussions with main Board and advisors
• Extensive valuation and due diligence, supported by external expertise
• Maintain strong financial discipline when assessing viability of opportunities
• Minimum return on capital requirements of all investment opportunities
•  Cautious approach to investment opportunities overseas and outside our  
core operating areas
•  Continual focus on and review of strategy ensures the Board is  
well placed to assess value adding opportunities as they arise
•  Good strategic progress made during the year. Continued focus  
on delivering profit growth in bus. Future of rail secured to 2021 
through the GTR franchise
•  Go-Ahead has a clear strategy, communicated to all levels of  
the organisation
Competition Loss of business to other modes of transport, existing 
competitors or new market entrants in our markets 
could have a significant impact on business, such as  
new technology based start ups
• Work hard to maintain our good reputation with our customers
•  Provide convenient, value for money services offering cost effective alternatives 
to the private car
• Adapt to changing customer requirements and technological advancements
•  Foster close relationships with stakeholders to ensure we are meeting 
requirements including service quality and price
• Work in partnership with local authorities and other operators
•  Promote multi-modal travel, improving the overall door-to-door experience  
for passengers
•  Remain at the forefront of promoting and introducing inter-operable  
ticketing schemes
•  Focus on customer needs and expectations, including more channels for  
ticket purchase and journey planning 
•  Strategic partnerships, such as our joint-operator scheme with 
Stagecoach and the local authority in Oxford, may provide 
opportunities and aim to improve the passenger experience  
and perception of public transport as a whole
•  Increased competition in the market encourages innovation  
which improves the customer experience
•  The reduction in oil price, leading to lower fuel prices for motorists, 
could result in passengers taking more trips in private cars rather  
than choosing public transport
•  We are becoming increasingly experienced in developing inter-operable 
schemes, with initiatives launched in Go North East and Brighton since 
January 2015
• T echnology based start ups are entering transport markets 38 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
MANAGING RISK CONTINUED
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTION POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES OVERALL CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR
OPERATIONAL
Catastrophic  
incident or severe 
infrastructure 
failure
An incident, such as a major accident, an act of 
terrorism, a force majeure, a pandemic or severe  
failure of rail infrastructure, could result in serious  
injury, disruption to service and loss of earnings
• Rigorous, high profile health and safety programme throughout the Group
•  Appropriate and regularly reviewed and tested contingency and disaster 
recovery plans
• Thorough and regular staff training
•  Close relationship and work closely with our industry partners, such  
as Network Rail, which maintains the rail infrastructure, particularly  
on large infrastructure projects like the Thameslink Programme and  
London Bridge redevelopment
•  The threat of such an event requires our staff to be well trained and 
prepared at all times. Continuous review of processes and procedures 
can identify areas for operational improvement and improve overall 
safety on our networks
•  We have maintained good levels of safety performance, demonstrating 
our continuing efforts to minimise this risk
Large scale 
infrastructure 
projects
Large scale projects on and around the networks on 
which we operate (such as the Thameslink Programme, 
HS2, major roadworks) can significantly impact on  
our ability to run our services reliably, meet contractual 
obligations, and performance targets, or damage 
customer reputation
•  Work constructively with industry partners, such as Network Rail,  
to minimise the impact of any disruption on our passengers
•  Strong engagement with stakeholders to enable effective communication
•  Good relationships with local authorities and industry bodies,  
such as the DfT
• Communicate effectively with customers during structural change programmes 
and during disruption 
•  Investment in railway infrastructure and roads will deliver long  
term benefits to passengers travelling on our services
•  During the year, bus services in Oxford and Brighton have been 
significantly impacted by roadworks 
•  Our rail operations have been impacted by works associated with the 
£6.5bn Thameslink Programme, particularly around London Bridge 
• Congestion due to roadworks in London has reduced our income from 
Quality Incentive Contracts
NEW
Labour costs, 
employee relations 
and resource 
planning
Poor employee relations or reduced availability of staff 
could impact on reputation, revenue, staff morale and 
our ability to fulfil contract obligations. Labour costs are 
a high proportion of our cost base. Even relatively small 
percentage increases in wages could have a material 
impact on profits. For example, an increase of 1% in 
staff costs would increase costs by around £11m
• Ensuring Go-Ahead is viewed as an employer of choice
•  Robust and regularly reviewed recruitment and retention policies,  
training schemes, resource planning and working practices
•  Experienced approach to wage negotiations and fostering good  
relationships with employees and trade unions
• Employee engagement surveys across all businesses to identify issues
•  Through fostering positive employee relations and offering good 
employment packages we have a motivated and committed workforce, 
with low staff turnover and absenteeism rates across all businesses
•  We have developed our ‘people plans’ during the year, with particular 
focus on leadership development, performance management and 
succession planning
•  We are monitoring the impact of changes in the employment market 
which may affect our ability to retain and recruit staff
Information 
technology (IT)  
failure or 
interruption or 
security breach
Prolonged or major failure of the Group’s IT systems  
or a significant security breach could pose significant 
risk to the ability to operate and trade
•  Process standardisation and continued investment in best practice  
systems, including ‘light sites’ and ‘load bearing’ servers
• Clear and tested business continuity plans
• Proactive approach to cyber security issues
•  Ensuring our systems and processes are efficient and reliable 
strengthens day-to-day operations across the Group
•  Continued investment in and maintenance of IT systems across  
the Group
• Cyber security certification achieved in June 2015 
Read more about our case study on page 35  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 39
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTION POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES OVERALL CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR
OPERATIONAL
Catastrophic  
incident or severe 
infrastructure 
failure
An incident, such as a major accident, an act of 
terrorism, a force majeure, a pandemic or severe  
failure of rail infrastructure, could result in serious  
injury, disruption to service and loss of earnings
• Rigorous, high profile health and safety programme throughout the Group
•  Appropriate and regularly reviewed and tested contingency and disaster 
recovery plans
• Thorough and regular staff training
•  Close relationship and work closely with our industry partners, such  
as Network Rail, which maintains the rail infrastructure, particularly  
on large infrastructure projects like the Thameslink Programme and  
London Bridge redevelopment
•  The threat of such an event requires our staff to be well trained and 
prepared at all times. Continuous review of processes and procedures 
can identify areas for operational improvement and improve overall 
safety on our networks
•  We have maintained good levels of safety performance, demonstrating 
our continuing efforts to minimise this risk
Large scale 
infrastructure 
projects
Large scale projects on and around the networks on 
which we operate (such as the Thameslink Programme, 
HS2, major roadworks) can significantly impact on  
our ability to run our services reliably, meet contractual 
obligations, and performance targets, or damage 
customer reputation
•  Work constructively with industry partners, such as Network Rail,  
to minimise the impact of any disruption on our passengers
•  Strong engagement with stakeholders to enable effective communication
•  Good relationships with local authorities and industry bodies,  
such as the DfT
• Communicate effectively with customers during structural change programmes 
and during disruption 
•  Investment in railway infrastructure and roads will deliver long  
term benefits to passengers travelling on our services
•  During the year, bus services in Oxford and Brighton have been 
significantly impacted by roadworks 
•  Our rail operations have been impacted by works associated with the 
£6.5bn Thameslink Programme, particularly around London Bridge 
• Congestion due to roadworks in London has reduced our income from 
Quality Incentive Contracts
NEW
Labour costs, 
employee relations 
and resource 
planning
Poor employee relations or reduced availability of staff 
could impact on reputation, revenue, staff morale and 
our ability to fulfil contract obligations. Labour costs are 
a high proportion of our cost base. Even relatively small 
percentage increases in wages could have a material 
impact on profits. For example, an increase of 1% in 
staff costs would increase costs by around £11m
• Ensuring Go-Ahead is viewed as an employer of choice
•  Robust and regularly reviewed recruitment and retention policies,  
training schemes, resource planning and working practices
•  Experienced approach to wage negotiations and fostering good  
relationships with employees and trade unions
• Employee engagement surveys across all businesses to identify issues
•  Through fostering positive employee relations and offering good 
employment packages we have a motivated and committed workforce, 
with low staff turnover and absenteeism rates across all businesses
•  We have developed our ‘people plans’ during the year, with particular 
focus on leadership development, performance management and 
succession planning
•  We are monitoring the impact of changes in the employment market 
which may affect our ability to retain and recruit staff
Information 
technology (IT)  
failure or 
interruption or 
security breach
Prolonged or major failure of the Group’s IT systems  
or a significant security breach could pose significant 
risk to the ability to operate and trade
•  Process standardisation and continued investment in best practice  
systems, including ‘light sites’ and ‘load bearing’ servers
• Clear and tested business continuity plans
• Proactive approach to cyber security issues
•  Ensuring our systems and processes are efficient and reliable 
strengthens day-to-day operations across the Group
•  Continued investment in and maintenance of IT systems across  
the Group
• Cyber security certification achieved in June 2015 
Read more about our case study on page 35  40 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.go-ahead.com 41
OUR STRATEGY
REGIONAL BUS
Our strategy is to grow our share of the regional UK bus market organically  
and through value adding acquisitions. We aim to improve operating profit 
margins by driving revenue growth and achieving cost efficiencies. Our long-
standing commitment to delivering high quality and value for money services  
to our local markets, combined with our leading approach to marketing,  
smart-ticketing and innovative solutions, will remain key to revenue generation, 
whilst cost savings will be achieved through benchmarking, sharing best practice 
and the introduction and development of cost efficiency initiatives.
LONDON BUS
Our strategy is to maintain our sector leading performance and market  
position through strong and effective management, providing high quality  
and cost efficient operations whilst seeking expansion through additional 
contract wins and value adding acquisitions. A stable contract base, inflationary 
revenue growth and cost efficiencies contribute towards London bus strategy. 
Our target to organically grow bus operating profit to £100m by 2015/16  
is now expected to be achieved in 2016/17.
BUSINESS REVIEW
13,600
NO. OF EMPLOYEES
£817.8m 
TOTAL BUS REVENUE
4,800
NO. OF BUSES
GO-AHEAD IS A LEADING BUS OPERATOR IN THE UK BOTH IN AND 
OUTSIDE LONDON. AROUND TWO MILLION PASSENGER JOURNEYS  
ARE MADE ON OUR SERVICES EVERY DAY
BUS OVERVIEW
BUS
2015 2014
T otal bus operations
Revenue (£m) 817.8 800.5
Operating profit (£m) 89.0 83.5
Margin 10.9% 10.4%
Regional bus 
Revenue (£m) 359.9 350.8
Operating profit (£m) 46.7 41.9
Margin 13.0% 11.9%
London bus
Revenue (£m) 457.9 449.7
Operating profit (£m) 42.3 41.6
Margin 9.2% 9.3%
Revenue growth
Regional bus 2.6% 4.3%
London bus 1.8% 7.5%
Volume growth
Regional bus – passenger journeys (1.4%) 1.9%
London bus – miles operated (0.9%) 1.6%
Unless otherwise stated, references made to operating profit throughout this report exclude 
amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t 42 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
BUSINESS REVIEW: BUS CONTINUED
OVERALL BUS PERFORMANCE REVIEW
T otal bus revenue increased by 2.2%, or £17.3m, to £817.8m (2014: £800.5m). 
The bus division delivered operating profit of £89.0m (2014: £83.5m),  
increasing by £5.5m, or 6.6%, in the year, resulting in a rise in operating  
profit margin of 0.5ppts to 10.9%. This performance was slightly behind  
the Board’s expectations for the year.
REGIONAL BUS OPERATIONS
Regional bus revenue was £359.9m (2014: £350.8m), up £9.1m, or 2.6%, with 
lower growth in the second half of the year. Overall, our regional bus operations 
saw similar trends in commercial and concessionary revenue and journey 
growth in the period. The decline in passenger numbers of 1.4% for the full  
year and 2.2% in the second half is a result of ongoing weakness in the north 
east economy, as well as roadworks in Oxford and Brighton significantly 
impacting our services in those areas, reducing passenger travel. 
Operating profit in the regional bus division was £46.7m (2014: £41.9m), up 
£4.8m, or 11.5%, and operating margins increased to 13.0% (2014: 11.9%). 
Insurance claim costs improved slightly for the year, with some reversal in the 
second half, as we continued to focus on accident prevention and minimising 
claims, including historic incidents. We also saw reduced fuel costs, reflecting 
a reduction in hedge price. Bid costs of £1.3m were incurred in pursuing 
opportunities in the Singaporean bus market.
A charge of £4.9m was recorded in the year, relating to impairment of  
goodwill in our Go East Anglia bus operations.
£m
2014 operating profit 41.9
Change in:
Underlying growth 4.4
Fuel costs 1.2
Insurance claims 0.5
Bid costs (1.3)
2015 operating profit 46.7
 
LONDON BUS OPERATIONS
London bus revenue grew by 1.8%, or £8.2m, to £457.9m in the year (2014: 
£449.7m). Growth was impacted by the reallocation of the Bus Service 
Operators Grant (BSOG). Excluding BSOG, London bus revenue growth was 
0.6%. Mileage reduced by 0.9% due to contract losses in the first half of the  
year, with the impact lessened by contract gains in the second half of the year.
Operating profit in the London bus division was £42.3m (2014: £41.6m), up 
£0.7m, or 1.7%. Operating margins remained broadly similar at 9.2% (2014: 
9.3%), down 0.1ppts on prior year margins. As with regional bus, our London 
operations saw an improvement in insurance claim costs and reduced fuel costs, 
reflecting the lower hedge price. These improvements helped offset the effect of 
driver’s strike action in the third quarter and reduced Quality Incentive Contract 
(QIC) payments. At £4.6m (2014: £9.1m), QIC payments were significantly 
lower than the prior year, impacted by roadworks and congestion in the capital, 
predominantly in the second half of the year.
Overall, our bus operations achieved record full year profits,  
with good revenue growth and cost control. 
OUR BUS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Brighton and Hove
Go-Ahead London Oxford Bus Company
Go East Anglia 
Go North East Plymouth Citybus
Go South Coast
2015 BUS REVENUE (£m)
£817.8m 2014: £800.5m
10.6%
10.4%
12.2%
56.0%
2.1%
2.8%
5.9% Depreciation Staff costs
Other Fuel
Engineering
2015 BUS OPERATING COST BASE (£m)
£728.8m 2014: £717.0m
8.6%
16.2%
62.3%
6.6%
6.3%
2015 BUS OPERATING PROFIT (£m)
100
80
60
40
20
0
11 12 13 14 15
£89.0m 2014: £83.5m
33.7
35.4 36.4
41.9
46.7 
33.4
34.8
38.8
41.6
42.3
London bus Regional bus Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 43
In July 2015 the Board approved an additional purchase to lock in the  
2016/17 and 2017/18 fuel costs. in order to create certainty around one of our 
largest costs. The table below reflects the position after the additional purchase.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
% hedged Fully Fully Fully Fully Fully
Price (pence per litre) 50.5 48.5 45.8 37.0 35.0
At each period end the fuel hedges are marked to market price. The increase  
in the fuel hedge liability during the year represents the increase in the mark  
to market value of the fuel hedges during the year.
OVERALL BUS OUTLOOK
Although our bus division delivered its strongest ever financial performance  
in the year, this fell slightly short of the Board’s expectations. The new financial 
year has begun with similar trends to the second half of 2014/15. As a result,  
we now expect to achieve operating profit of £100m in 2016/17, a year  
later than originally expected, due to lower than expected revenue growth,  
in particular due to regional bus performance and lower QIC payments.
We would expect some of these headwinds which we have experienced  
over the past year to reverse over time and this, along with reduced fuel  
costs, gives us continued confidence in the prospects for the bus division.
In regional bus, we will continue to drive revenue growth through our sector 
leading marketing initiatives and sales channels, using smart and m-ticketing to 
attract a wider market. and further improve the customer experience. We will 
remain focused on cost efficiency while maintaining the quality and reliability  
of our services. 
In London bus, growth in contract mileage is expected to be 2-3% in the 
full year, with contract revenue expected to increase accordingly. Ongoing 
roadworks and congestion in London are expected to result in further year  
on year reduction in QIC payments.
In 2015/16, we expect total capital expenditure to be around £70m due  
to the timing of London contract renewals and continued investment in  
our regional bus services. 
We will continue to look for value adding investment opportunities both  
in and outside our traditional markets. 
£m
2014 operating profit 41.6
Change in:
Insurance claims 3.0
Fuel cost 1.3
Underlying growth 1.9
Impact of strike action (1.0)
QIC bonuses (4.5)
2015 operating profit 42.3
We continue to perform well in the Transport for London (TfL) quality league 
tables. After adjusting for lost mileage due to driver strike action in the third 
quarter, we operated 99.5% (2014: 99.5%) of our target mileage before traffic 
congestion losses.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND DEPRECIATION
Capital expenditure for the bus division was £36.1m (2014: £61.3m),  
of which £25.2m related to the purchase of new vehicles.
Investment of £19.9m (2014: £43.2m) was made in introducing 122 new  
buses (2014: 244 buses) into our regional bus fleet.
Contract wins in our London bus business led to a spend of £5.3m  
(2014: £6.6m) on 29 new buses (2014: 23 buses). This was less than the  
prior year as fewer new vehicles were needed due to automatic two year 
contract extensions on the basis of performance. 
We have a young green bus fleet with an average age of 7.8 years.  
Depreciation for the division was £45.7m (2014: £45.2m).
FUEL
In the year, the bus division consumed around 128 million litres of fuel at a net 
cost of £118.4m.
BUS FUEL HEDGING PRICES
We have continued with our bus fuel hedging programme which uses fuel 
swaps to fix the price of our diesel fuel in advance. Our policy is to be fully 
hedged for the next financial year before the start of that year, at which point 
we aim to have also fixed at least 50% of the following year and 25% of the 
year after that. This hedging profile is then maintained on a quarterly basis. 
OUR OPERATING COMPANIES
Revenue: £457.9m Revenue: £99.6m
Passenger journeys: 480m Passenger journeys: 67m
Average no. of employees: 6,837 Average no. of employees: 1,990
Revenue: £86.4m Revenue: £48.5m
Passenger journeys: 65m Passenger journeys: 23m
Average no. of employees: 1,437 Average no. of employees: 737
Revenue: £85.2m Revenue: £17.4m
Passenger journeys: 48m Passenger journeys: 8m
Average no. of employees: 1,473 Average no. of employees: 426
Revenue: £22.8m
Passenger journeys: 16m
Average no. of employees: 538
Bus operating
profit up 6.6% 44 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.go-ahead.com 45
217 WORDS
BUSINESS REVIEW
GO-AHEAD’S RAIL OPERATION IS THE BUSIEST IN THE UK,  
RESPONSIBLE FOR AROUND 35% OF ALL TRAIN PASSENGER JOURNEYS
OUR RAIL STRATEGY
Our strategy is to deliver the commitments of our existing franchises while 
maximising returns for the remainder of the contracts, and securing future 
franchises through competitive bidding processes. 
We are focused on the integration of the Southern and Gatwick Express 
franchises into the GTR franchise which began in July 2015 and are committed 
to negotiating favourable new terms for the extension period proposed for 
London Midland. 
The UK rail market offers significant opportunities over the coming years. We 
have a strong position and a good track record in the industry and we aim to 
secure the future of rail profitability by exploring these and other opportunities. 
RAIL
12,600
 NO. OF EMPLOYEES
6,000
DAIL Y TRAIN SERVICES
£2,397 .4 m
TOTAL RAIL REVENUE
2015 2014
T otal rail operations
T otal revenue (£m) 2,397.4 1,901.9
Operating profit (£m) 25.7 19.7
Margin 1.1% 1.0%
Passenger revenue growth
Southern 7.0% 6.1%
Southeastern 8.5% 5.6%
London Midland 5.4% 7.4%
GTR
*
8.8% n/a
Volume growth
Southern 4.1% 4.1%
Southeastern 3.1% 5.3%
London Midland 2.1% 4.9%
GTR
*
6.4% n/a
Unless otherwise stated, references made to operating profit throughout this report exclude 
amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
*  Compares the period of operation in the year (14 September 2014 to 27 June 2015) to  
the comparative period last year when operating as First Capital Connect.
RAIL OVERVIEW
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t 46 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
BUSINESS REVIEW: RAIL CONTINUED
RAIL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
The rail division has delivered a good result in the year, ahead of the Board’s 
expectations, helped by contract management benefits in the second half. 
Margins remained at historically low levels.
Overall passenger revenue growth was 7.6% (2014: 6.1%) on a like for like  
basis, with like for like passenger journey growth of 3.9% (2014: 4.8%). 
The Group’s net increase in contributions to the DfT was £191.9m (2014: 
£51.6m increase) with an overall contribution of £255.9m (2014: £64.0m). 
Southern’s core premium payments to the DfT increased by £46.1m in the 
year while subsidy receipts in Southeastern and London Midland increased 
by £49.4m and £0.7m respectively. Revenue support decreased by £59.8m 
for Southeastern and rose by £8.7m in Southern. Under its new direct award 
contract, which began in October 2014, Southeastern made profit share 
contributions to the DfT of £23.9m during the year.
The GTR revenue adjustment of £120.9m reflects the difference between 
passenger revenue and the franchise payment to the DfT, as set out in the  
bid model.
REVENUE
T otal revenue increased by 26.1%, or £495.5m, to £2,397.4m (2014: £1,901.9m) 
consisting of:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net change 
£m % change
Passenger revenue 2,240.1 1,636.2 603.9 36.9
Southern 735.7 687.7 48.0 7.0
Southeastern 728.6 671.6 57.0 8.5
London Midland 291.8 276.9 14.9 5.4
GTR
*
484.0 – 484.0 –
GTR revenue adjustment
**
(120.9) – (120.9) –
Other revenue 160.7 147.2 13.5 9.2
Southern 55.8 77.5 (21.7) (28.0)
Southeastern 23.8 26.4 (2.6) (9.8)
London Midland 50.3 43.3 7.0 16.2
GTR 30.8 – 30.8 –
T otal subsidy 76.4 26.3 50.1 190.5
Southeastern 19.8 (29.6) 49.4 166.9
London Midland 56.6 55.9 0.7 1.3
T otal revenue support 41.1 92.2 (51.1) (55.4)
Southeastern revenue support 23.0 82.8 (59.8) (72.2)
Southern revenue support 18.1 9.4 8.7 92.6
T otal revenue 2,397.4 1,901.9 495.5 26.1
* Passenger revenue collected by GTR on behalf of the DfT .
** Represents passenger revenue generated in excess of the management fee payable to  
Go-Ahead for operating the franchise, which is remitted to the DfT .
PREMIUM PAYMENTS
Southern’s core premium payments are included in operating costs.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net change 
£m % change
Southern core premium 228.6 182.5 46.1 25.3
The rail division delivered better than expected profitability of £25.7m, despite 
the operational challenges faced during the year.
OUR RAIL FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
GTR         16.4%
Southern    33.8%
Southeastern   33.2%
London Midland 16.6%
2015 RAIL REVENUE 
£2,397.4m 2014: £1,901.9m
EC4T
Staff costs
Fuel
Other
Track access
Engineering
Depreciation
Rolling stock 
lease payments
2015 RAIL OPERATING COST BASE
£2,371.7m 2014: £1,882.2m
4.6%
17.3%
20.7%
25.8%
27.0%
0.4%
1.0%
3.2%
2015 RAIL OPERATING PROFIT (£m)
50
40
30
20
10
0
0.75
0.58
11 12 13 14 15
£25.7m 2014: £19.7m
48.0
40.0
11.5
19.7
25.7
£25.7m
rail operating profit Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 47
LONDON MIDLAND
Passenger revenue grew by 5.4% (2014: 7.4%) in the year and passenger 
numbers increased by 2.1% (2014: 4.9%) on a like for like basis. London 
Midland’s trading performance improved in the second half of the year.
The franchise will continue to operate within its original contract terms 
including a seven month extension period to March 2016. Discussions  
with the DfT are underway regarding a potential direct award contract  
for London Midland from March 2016 to October 2017.
GTR
The GTR franchise began on 14 September 2014. In the trading period, the 
franchise reported growth in passenger revenue of 8.8% and passenger journey 
growth of 6.4% compared with the same period last year. Despite the strong 
trading performance, operational issues and network changes contributed to 
the franchise making a small loss in the year.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND DEPRECIATION
Capital expenditure for the rail division was £6.2m (2014: £8.2m) and 
depreciation was £24.8m (2014: £15.5m).
In 2015/16, capital expenditure is expected to increase to around £20m 
reflecting investment in GTR and Southeastern. 
RAIL OUTLOOK
This has been a transitional year in rail, with the introduction of GTR and the 
start of Southeastern’s new contract. Looking forward, our local management 
teams will be focused on delivering benefits for passengers while working with 
industry partners, such as Network Rail, to minimise the disruption caused  
by major infrastructure work associated with the Thameslink Programme. 
Following the year end, Southern and Gatwick Express were integrated 
into GTR. This franchise continues to incur incremental costs as a result of 
operational challenges and changes in its operating network. This may lead 
to lower margins in the short to medium term but any shortfall in profit is 
expected to be recoverable over the life of the franchise as normal industry 
contract remedies are employed to help mitigate these costs over time. 
Trading in the Southeastern franchise continues to outperform our  
expectations and we expect the full year benefit of new contract  
terms to offset underperformance in GTR.
We continue discussions with the DfT regarding the proposed contract 
extension for London Midland to October 2017.
OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit in the rail division was up £6.0m at £25.7m (2014: £19.7m), 
with operating margins increasing marginally to 1.1% (2014: 1.0%).
Rail bid costs of £9.4m (2014: £8.1m) were higher than in the prior year  
due to increased bidding activity, including around £2m on rail franchise activity  
in Germany. 
£m
2014 operating profit 19.7
Change in:
Additional passenger revenue 603.9
GTR revenue adjustment (120.9)
Additional costs and other income (406.0)
Premium payments (46.1)
Southeastern profit share (23.9)
Subsidy receipts 50.1
Revenue support receipts (51.1)
2015 operating profit 25.7
INDIVIDUAL FRANCHISE PERFORMANCE
SOUTHERN
Passenger revenue growth was 7.0% (2014: 6.1%) year on year driven by  
higher passenger numbers, up 4.1% (2014: 4.1%). 
The franchise delivered a stronger than expected profit performance in the  
year due to contract management benefits before being integrated into GTR  
in July 2015. Southern continued to receive revenue support until this point.
SOUTHEASTERN
Southeastern recorded a good trading performance. Overall passenger revenue 
increased by 8.5% (2014: 5.6%) and passenger numbers rose 3.1% (2014: 5.3%).
The franchise began operating under new contract terms on 12 October 2014, 
ending its eligibility for revenue support. Under the new contract, Southeastern 
made a contribution of £23.9m to the Government during the year through a 
profit sharing mechanism.
OUR OPERATING COMPANIES
Revenue: £393.9m Revenue: £398.6m
Passenger journeys: 100m Passenger journeys: 65m
Average no. of employees: 2,052 Average no. of employees: 2,350
Revenue: £795.3m Revenue: £809.6m
Passenger journeys: 185m Passenger journeys: 183m
Average no. of employees: 4,005 Average no. of employees: 4,183
Record passenger  
numbers in rail 
 
journeys
 
533m  48 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Operating profit 
up 11.1%
FINANCE REVIEW
“ The Group once again delivered a good performance in the year  
ended 27 June 2015 and is in a strong financial position.”
OVERVIEW AND HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue for the year was £3,215.2m, up £512.8m, or 19.0%, on last year  
(2014: £2,702.4m), with growth in both bus and rail. The majority of this 
increase was attributable to the rail division, predominantly due to the 
introduction of the GTR franchise on 14 September 2014.
Operating profit was £114.7m (2014: £103.2m), up £11.5m, or 11.1%, on  
the prior year. This was ahead of the Board’s expectations as a result of 
better than expected performance in our rail division, helped by rail contract 
management benefits, which more than offset the slight weakness in our bus 
division. The bus division delivered record profits in the year, making continued 
progress. The overall operating margin of 3.6% (2014: 3.8%) reduced slightly 
year on year following the introduction of the GTR franchise, which made  
a small loss in the year. 
Profit before tax excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional 
items for the year increased by £11.7m, or 13.8%, to £96.6m (2014: £84.9m) 
and adjusted earnings per share rose 1.5% to 150.8p (2014: 148.6p). 
Net cash at the year end of £292.9m (2014: net debt £42.7m) reflects  
£322.4m additional cash, the majority of which is restricted. The higher  
cash balance is largely due to working capital movements relating to franchise 
wins and extensions, and the timing of GTR franchise payments. Adjusted  
net debt (net debt plus restricted cash) to EBITDA of 1.32x (2014: 1.59x)  
is below our target range of 1.5x to 2.5x. 
SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENT
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Increase/
(decrease) 
£m
Increase/
(decrease) 
%
Revenue 3,215.2 2,702.4 512.8 19.0
Operating profit 114.7 103.2 11.5 11.1
Net finance costs (18.1) (18.3) 0.2 1.1
Profit before tax
*
96.6 84.9 11.7 13.8
Amortisation and goodwill 
impairment (9.1) (5.8) (3.3) (56.9)
Exceptional items (8.8) 12.1 (20.9) (172.7)
Profit before tax 78.7 91.2 (12.5) (13.7)
T otal tax expense (19.4) (13.6) (5.8) (42.6)
Profit for the period 59.3 77.6 (18.3) (23.6)
Non-controlling interests (7.1) (7.3) 0.2 2.7
Profit attributable to shareholders 52.2 70.3 (18.1) (25.7)
Adjusted profit attributable 
to shareholders
*
64.7 63.7 1.0 1.6
Weighted average number 
of shares (m) 42.9 42.9 – –
Adjusted earnings per share (p)
*
150.8 148.6 2.2 1.5
Proposed full year dividend 
per share (p) 90.0 84.5 5.5 6.5
* Excludes amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
 Read commentary on the consolidated income statement on page 91 
Unless otherwise stated, references made to operating profit throughout this report exclude 
amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
Keith Down, 
Group Finance Director Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 49
REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT BY DIVISION
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Increase/
(decrease) 
£m
Increase/
(decrease) 
%
Revenue
Regional bus 359.9 350.8 9.1 2.6
London bus 457.9 449.7 8.2 1.8
T otal bus 817.8 800.5 17.3 2.2
Rail 2,397.4 1,901.9 495.5 26.1
T otal 3,215.2 2,702.4 512.8 19.0
Operating profit
Regional bus 46.7 41.9 4.8 11.5
London bus 42.3 41.6 0.7 1.7
T otal bus 89.0 83.5 5.5 6.6
Rail 25.7 19.7 6.0 30.5
T otal 114.7 103.2 11.5 11.1
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Adjusted earnings (net profit after tax attributable to members before 
amortisation and exceptional items) were £64.7m (2014: £63.7m), resulting  
in an increase in adjusted earnings per share from 148.6p to 150.8p. 
The weighted average number of shares was 42.9 million (2014: 42.9 million), 
and the number of shares in issue, net of treasury shares, was 43.0 million  
(2014: 42.9 million).
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a total dividend for the year of 90.0p per share  
(2014: 84.5p), a rise of 6.5%, following a 4.3% increase in the interim dividend. 
This includes a proposed final payment of 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p)  
payable on 13 November 2015 to shareholders registered at the close of 
business on 30 October 2015.
Dividends of £36.7m (2014: £34.7m) paid in the period represent the payment 
of the prior year’s final dividend of 59.0p per share (2014: 55.5p) and the 
interim dividend in respect of this year of 26.6p per share (2014: 25.5p). 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests were £12.8m (2014: £8.6m). 
Excluding the non-cash impact of IAS 19 (revised), dividend cover was  
2.02x (2014: 2.04x). 
SUMMARY CASHFLOW
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Increase/
(decrease) 
£m
EBITDA
*
185.2 163.9 21.3
Working capital/other items 224.2 9.7 214.5
Pensions 22.0 10.7 11.3
Cashflow generated from operations 431.4 184.3 247.1
T ax paid (20.3) (12.4) (7.9)
Net interest paid (14.3) (15.0) 0.7
Net capital investment (47.9) (67.3) 19.4
Net cash transfer on handover of  
rail franchise 34.8 – 34.8
Free cashflow 383.7 89.6 294.1
Net acquisitions (0.4) – (0.4)
Joint venture repayment 1.8 0.3 1.5
Other – 1.6 (1.6)
Dividends paid (49.5) (43.3) (6.2)
Decrease in net debt/increase in  
net cash
335.6 48.2 287.4
Opening net debt (42.7) (90.9) –
Closing net cash/(debt) 292.9 (42.7) –
* Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional items. 
Read commentary on the consolidated cashflow statement on page 97 
CASHFLOW
Cash generated from operations before tax was £431.4m (2014: £184.3m). 
This increase of £247.1m is largely due to better than expected profitability 
and a favourable movement in working capital, primarily reflecting timing of 
rail payments. £107m is due to the timing of GTR franchise payments, which 
is expected to reverse in 2015/16. £70m is due to a cash inflow from the 
start of the GTR franchise, which is not expected to reverse until the end of 
the franchise. The balance is due to an increase in season ticket cash and the 
timing of contractual payments. T ax paid of £20.3m (2014: £12.4m) comprised 
payments on account in respect of the current year’s liabilities. Net interest 
paid of £14.3m (2014: £15.0m) is lower than the charge for the period of 
£18.1m (2014: £18.3m) after excluding the impact of non-cash interest on 
pensions and the unwinding of discounting on provisions. Capital expenditure, 
net of sale proceeds, was £19.4m lower in the year at £47.9m (2014: £67.3m) 
predominantly due to reduced investment in the regional bus fleet. Investment 
in the bus division is expected to increase to around £70m in 2015/16 due to 
the timing of London bus contract renewals and continued investment in our 
regional bus operations. 
During the period, the Group did not repurchase any shares (2014: nil).
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Expenditure on capital during the year can be summarised as:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Regional bus 28.0 52.4
London bus 8.1 8.9
T otal bus 36.1 61.3
Rail 6.2 8.2
Group total 42.3 69.5
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Five year syndicated facility 2019/five year  
syndicated facility 2016 280.0 275.0
7.5 year £200m 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0
T otal core facilities 480.0 475.0
Amount drawn down at 27 June 2015 311.0 320.0
Balance available 169.0 155.0
Restricted cash 537.6 217.3
Net (cash)/debt (292.9) 42.7
Adjusted net debt 244.7 260.0
EBITDA 185.2 163.9
Adjusted net debt/EBITDA
1
1.32x 1.59x
Adjusted net debt/EBITDA
2
1.19x 1.45x
1 Not adjusted for the impact of IAS 19 (revised), in line with new 2019 revolving credit facility.
2 Adjusted for the impact of IAS 19 (revised).
Significant medium term finance is secured through our revolving credit facility 
(RCF) and £200m sterling bond. On 16 July 2014, our RCF was refinanced as 
the Group entered into a £280m five year facility, replacing the existing £275m 
facility which was due to expire in February 2016. The new facility has an initial 
maturity of July 2019 with two one year extension options, one of which was 
agreed on 1 July 2015, extending the maturity of the facility to July 2020 from 
that date. The sterling bond is due to expire in September 2017.
Our investment grade ratings from Moody’s (Baa3, stable outlook) and  
Standard & Poor’s (BBB-, stable outlook) remain unchanged. 50 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
PENSIONS
Operating profit includes the net cost of the Group’s defined benefit pension 
plans for the year of £68.9m (2014: £53.8m) consisting of bus costs of £2.7m 
(2014: £6.7m) and rail costs of £66.2m (2014: £47.1m). Group contributions  
to the schemes totalled £46.2m (2014: £43.2m).
BUS PENSIONS
Under accounting valuations, the net deficit after taxation on the bus defined 
benefit schemes was £47.6m (2014: £47.8m), consisting of pre-tax liabilities  
of £59.5m (2014: £59.8m) less a deferred tax asset of £11.9m (2014: £12.0m). 
The pre-tax deficit consisted of estimated liabilities of £718.7m (2014: £663.3m) 
less assets of £659.2m (2014: £603.5m). The percentage of assets held in higher 
risk, return seeking assets was 51% (2014: 50%). 
RAIL PENSIONS
As the long term responsibility for the rail pension schemes rests with the  
DfT the Group only recognises the share of surplus or deficit expected to  
be realised over the life of each franchise. 
In the year we recorded a pre-tax liability of £nil (2014: £nil).
IAS 19 (REVISED)
IAS 19 (revised) became effective for the Group in the year ended  
28 June 2014.
The impact of the change on profit before tax was a reduction of £20.4m 
(2014: £14.2m), £12.2m (2014: £8.6m) of which is attributable to equity  
holders of the parent. This resulted in a reduction in basic earnings per share  
of 28.4p (2014: 20.1p) and a reduction in adjusted earnings per share of  
30.8p (2014: 24.0p), of which 11.7p (2014: 9.6p) relates to the bus division.
The table below shows the impact of IAS 19 (revised) on the financial results  
to 27 June 2015, and the impact on the results to 28 June 2014.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit adjustment – Bus (4.0) (3.3)
Profit adjustment – Rail (16.0) (12.3)
T otal operating profit effect (20.0) (15.6)
Amortisation 1.9 3.4
Net finance costs (2.3) (2.0)
Profit before taxation (20.4) (14.2)
T axation (22.5%/23.75%) 4.2 3.2
Profit for the year (16.2) (11.0)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (12.2) (8.6)
Non-controlling interests (4.0) (2.4)
(16.2) (11.0)
Reduction in basic earnings per share (p) (28.4)p (20.1)p
Reduction in adjusted earnings per share (p) (30.8)p (24.0)p
Reduction in earnings per share attributable to bus (p) (11.7)p (9.6)p
Keith Down,
Group Finance Director
2 September 2015
FINANCE REVIEW CONTINUED
NET CASH/DEBT
Net cash of £292.9m (2014: net debt £42.7m) comprised the £200m sterling 
bond; amounts drawn down against the £280m five year RCF of £111.0m 
(2014: £120.0m); hire purchase and lease agreements of £0.3m (2014: £2.0m) 
and US dollar facility of £nil (2014: £2.5m), offset by cash and short term 
deposits of £604.2m (2014: £281.8m) including £537.6m of restricted cash  
in rail (2014: £217.3m). There were no overdrafts in use at the year end  
(2014: £nil). 
Our primary financial covenant under the 2016 RCF was an adjusted net  
debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x. Adjusted net debt (net debt  
plus restricted cash) to EBITDA of 1.32x (2014: 1.59x) remains under our 
target range of 1.5x to 2.5x.
NET FINANCE COSTS
Net finance costs for the year were slightly ahead of the prior year at  
£18.1m (2014: £18.3m) including finance costs of £20.5m (2014: £19.8m)  
less finance revenue of £2.4m (2014: £1.5m). 
The average underlying net interest rate for the period was 4.2% (2014: 4.3%).
AMORTISATION AND GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT 
The amortisation and goodwill impairment charge for the year was £9.1m  
(2014: £5.8m), of which £4.2m represents the non-cash cost of amortising 
software costs, franchise bid costs, customer contracts and rail franchise 
acquisition assets, and £4.9m relates to the impairment of goodwill in our  
Go East Anglia bus operations.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
T otal exceptional items in the year were a charge of £8.8m (2014: £12.1m 
credit), relating to rail restructuring costs in GTR. These costs reflect 
reorganisation of the combined GTR franchise which brings Thameslink  
and Great Northern together with Southern and Gatwick Express under  
one management structure. 
Prior year exceptional items of £12.1m comprised a credit of £15.1m  
in relation to the closure of the defined benefit pension scheme, and a  
£3.0m charge in respect of rail restructuring.
TAXATION
Net tax for the year was £19.4m (2014: £13.6m), equivalent to an effective rate 
of 24.7% (2014: 14.9%), above the UK statutory rate for the period of 20.75% 
(2014: 22.5%). The effective rate was higher than expected due to increased 
non-deductible items such as goodwill impairment and German bid costs.  
The underlying rate, excluding goodwill impairment of £4.9m, is 23.2%. The 
statutory rate will reduce to 20%, 19% and 18% in 2016, 2017 and 2018 
respectively. We expect our effective tax rate to be 1% to 2% above the 
statutory rate in future years.
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
The non-controlling interest in the income statement of £7.1m (2014: £7.3m) 
arises from our 65% holding in Govia Limited which owns 100% of our current 
rail operations and therefore represents 35% of the profit after taxation of 
these operations. www.go-ahead.com 51
Our strategic report for the year ended  
27 June 2015, as set out on pages 2 to 51, and the 
directors’ report, on pages 86 and 87, have been 
reviewed and approved by the Board of directors.
Andrew Allner,
Chairman
2 September 2015
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Str ategic	r e por t 52 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present Go-Ahead’s corporate governance report for 2015 
on behalf of the Board. In last year’s report, I wrote that “our governance 
framework was built upon robust systems and processes, effective leadership, 
high standards of behaviour and a culture based on openness and honesty”.  
This remains true today.
Our governance framework, values and business model continue to  
underpin our approach to achieving our strategic objectives. Good  
governance is fundamental to the way we do business. This report  
seeks to provide a comprehensive explanation of how we apply good 
governance principles in all we do.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The Group is fully compliant with all provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) and we disclose details of how we comply 
throughout this report. The Code was updated by the Financial Reporting 
Council (“FRC”) in September 2014 with changes including the assessment  
of principal risks and the new viability statement. We support the changes  
to the Code, which are designed to strengthen the focus of companies and 
investors in the longer term and the sustainability of value creation. Although 
these changes do not apply to Go-Ahead’s annual report until next year, as 
a Board we have already begun to address them. In particular, we have made 
good progress looking at areas such as setting risk appetite and the assessment 
and reporting of risks and business prospects. A copy of the Code is available  
at www.frc.org.uk.
BOARD EVALUATION
During the year under review, both an internal and external evaluation of 
Board performance took place. The internal review was undertaken in the first 
quarter of the year. However, in order to better align the timing of the Board’s 
performance review with annual reporting, the external review scheduled for 
next year was brought forward to the current year. With two reviews in one 
reporting period, it was important that they complemented each other. 
The internal review focused on areas of improvement from the last evaluation 
and Boardroom best practice, while the theme of the external review was 
more forward-looking, constructive and developmental in order to maximise 
the prospects of strategy and delivery performance. I am pleased to report that 
both reviews found the overall functioning of the Board to be at a very good 
level, with the actions progressed from the previous evaluations contributing 
positively to the current position. Full details of both of these reviews can be found  
on pages 60 and 61 
OUR PEOPLE
We recognise that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying and 
developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the 
business. During the year, the Board continued to focus on senior management 
succession planning and leadership talent development and it is pleasing to 
report that many of the initiatives reported on last year are now embedded 
throughout the organisation. The Group continues to embrace all forms of 
diversity not only at Board level and across all operating companies, but also 
more widely through the industry and business communities. Details of the 
introduction and continuation of a number of diversity initiatives are explained further  
on page 69  
AUDIT TENDERING
During the year, in accordance with best practice, a formal external auditor 
tender process was undertaken. The Board will propose to shareholders at  
the 2015 AGM that Deloitte LLP will replace Ernst & Y oung LLP as the Group’s 
new external auditor. Full details of the tender process can be found on page 67 
Andrew Allner,
Chairman
2 September 2015
“ Good governance is fundamental  
to the way we do business.” Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 53
BOARD HIGHLIGHTS 2014/15 BOARD OBJECTIVES 2015/16
BOARD
• Conducted both an internal and external Board evaluation review 
• Implemented a number of initiatives to improve Board stewardship 
and dynamics 
• Reviewed remuneration policy with a major shareholder consultation 
on the proposed changes
• Further developed succession planning and leadership development 
strategies across the Group
• Reviewed key Board policies, including delegated authorities  
and diversity
• Implement the external Board evaluation review recommendations 
• Further align succession planning and leadership development  
with strategic planning 
• Continue to strengthen talent strategy in the context of culture,  
values and behavioural framework 
• Continue to build upon and develop diversity initiatives 
• Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director and facilitate  
his/her induction to the Group
STRATEGY
• Improved strategy formulation and decision making processes 
• Developed a framework for development and diversification 
opportunities 
• Monitored GTR mobilisation, integration and compliance with 
franchise commitments 
• Developed strategy planning for the general election, politics  
and devolution
• Strengthened alliances between operators, local authorities  
and key strategic partners
• Review of organisational structure to deliver strategy 
• Continue to develop framework for development and  
diversification opportunities
• Further enhance collaboration and partnership working 
• Improve focus in response to rail performance and  
customer experience 
FINANCE
• Review of key financial policies including tax, treasury and fuel hedging
• Reviewed progressive dividend policy with proposed increase  
to full year dividend 
• Maintained strong financial discipline with strong cash generation  
and robust balance sheet
• Brought forward bank refinancing in light of favourable market 
conditions
• Continue to monitor progressive dividend policy 
• Maintain focus on strong financial discipline and best practice  
policies and processes
• Respond to changes in the external regulatory environment to  
ensure best practice compliance and reporting 
RISK & 
GOVERNANCE
• Improved top down process for risk assessment 
• Considered the changes required in response to the updating  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 
• Completed formal audit tender process for the statutory auditor 
• Strengthened cyber security policies and processes 
• Execute the agreed transition plan for the change of statutory auditor 
• Implement the changes required to comply with the updated UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014 including risk process and appetite
• Continue to review and strengthen cyber security policies  
and processes
MAJOR 
APPROVALS
• Bids for the DfT’s Northern, TransPennine Express and  
CrossRail franchises
• Bid for TfL’s London Overground franchise
• Bids for contracts in the German regional rail market
• Bids for first tranche of work for the Singaporean bus market
• Direct award contract for Southeastern
• Consider further contract opportunities in the German regional  
rail market
• Bid for second tranche of work for the Singaporean bus market
• Direct award contract terms for London Midland
• Continue to undertake careful analysis to establish other  
opportunities which best complement our portfolio, match our  
risk appetite and offer attractive returns for our shareholders 54 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ANDREW ALLNER
Chairman
DAVID BROWN 
Group Chief Executive
KEITH DOWN 
Group Finance Director
KATHERINE INNES KER
Senior Independent Director
NICK HORLER
Non-Executive Director
ADRIAN EWER
Non-Executive Director
CAROLYN FERGUSON
Group Company Secretary 
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Remuneration committee, 
nomination committee (Chair)
Nomination committee Audit committee, remuneration 
committee (Chair), nomination 
committee
Audit committee, remuneration 
committee, nomination committee
Audit committee (Chair), 
remuneration committee, 
nomination committee
Secretary to the audit committee, 
remuneration committee and 
nomination committee
TERM OF OFFICE
Andrew Allner joined the Board in 
October 2008 and was appointed 
Chairman of the Group in 2013
David Brown was appointed 
Deputy Chief Executive on  
1 April 2011 before his accession 
to Group Chief Executive on  
3 July 2011
Keith Down was appointed to the 
Board as Group Finance Director 
in March 2011. In July 2015 it was 
announced that Keith will leave  
Go-Ahead in late 2015 to take 
up the position of Chief Finance 
Officer at Dunelm plc
Katherine Innes Ker joined the 
Board in July 2010 and was 
appointed Senior Independent 
Director in April 2013
Nick Horler joined the Board  
in November 2011
Adrian Ewer joined the Board  
in April 2013
Carolyn Ferguson was appointed  
Group Company Secretary in  
July 2006
LENGTH OF SERVICE
6 years, 10 months 4 years, 5 months 4 years, 6 months 5 years, 1 month 3 years, 9 months 2 years, 4 months 9 years, 2 months
INDEPENDENT
On appointment – – Yes Yes Yes –
SKILLS & EXPERIENCE 
• Significant Board experience 
including Finance Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Non-Executive 
Director and Chair roles
• Experience across a broad  
range of UK and multinational 
companies and sectors
• Former Partner at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers  
and a Fellow of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants  
in England & Wales
• Graduate of Oxford University
• Non-Executive Director of AZ 
Electronic Materials SA from 
2010 to 2014, of CSR plc from 
2008 to 2013 and of Moss Bros 
Group plc from 2001 to 2005
• Over 32 years’ experience in  
the industry with particular 
expertise in the London  
bus market
• Former Managing Director of 
Surface Transport at Transport 
for London
• Thorough knowledge and 
understanding of the Group’s 
business, having been Chief 
Executive of Go-Ahead’s 
London bus business from  
2003 to 2006 and as advisor  
to the main Board
• Chartered Accountant
• Former Finance Director  
of JD Wetherspoon plc
• Before joining JD Wetherspoon 
plc in 2007 he served as 
Commercial Finance  
Director of T esco plc
• Experience in businesses with a 
strong consumer angle alongside 
complex logistics is an important 
contribution to the Board’s  
skill set
• Former City financial analyst
• Extensive executive and 
non-executive experience  
in helping to grow successful  
and dynamic organisations
• Held many previous non-
executive directorships including 
St Modwen Properties Plc, 
Victoria plc, T aylor Wimpey plc, 
T aylor Woodrow plc, The 
T elevision Corporation plc, 
Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, 
Shed Media plc and Gyrus 
Group plc
• Former Chief Executive Officer 
of Scottish Power and Managing 
Director of E.On Retail
• Extensive general management 
experience in UK and USA 
regulated markets, specialising  
in Sales and Marketing
• Brings valuable insights into 
Go-Ahead’s development  
of social networks and  
digital marketing to attract  
new passengers
• Former Chief Executive Officer 
of John Laing plc and associated 
limited companies
• Became a Chartered Accountant 
in 1977 and has sound recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
• Wealth of experience of major 
long term contracts
• Strong customer focus and  
flair for strategy and finance
• Experience in bidding and 
operating heavy and light  
rail franchises as well as rail 
infrastructure procurement
• A Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators
• Qualified and practising  
coach and mentor
• Prior to her appointment as 
Group Company Secretary  
she was appointed Assistant 
Company Secretary in 2001  
with responsibility for non-rail 
pensions and a wide range of 
company secretariat functions
• Before joining Go-Ahead she 
spent 12 years working for 
Northern Electric, predominantly 
in the field of pensions
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
Non-Executive Chairman of 
Marshalls plc (Chairman of the 
nomination committee); Non-
Executive Director of Northgate 
plc (Chairman of the audit and 
risk committee and member of 
the nomination and remuneration 
committees) and Non-Executive 
Chairman of Fox Marble Holdings 
plc (member of remuneration 
committee)
Non-Executive Director of the 
ATOC Limited (Chair of the 
remuneration committee)  
and Director of Rail Delivery 
Group Limited
Non-Executive Director of T opps 
Tiles plc (Chair of the audit 
committee and member  
of the remuneration and 
nomination committee)
Senior Independent Director 
of Tribal Group plc (Chair of 
the remuneration committee 
and member of the audit and 
nomination committees); Chair of 
the Mortgage Advice Bureau and 
Non-Executive Director of Colt 
Group S.A (member of audit  
and remuneration committees)
Non-Executive Director of Royal 
Mail Plc (member of the audit & 
risk and nomination committees); 
Chair of Alderney Renewable 
Energy Limited; Chair of Meter 
Provida Limited and Meter Provida 
Investments Limited; Non-Executive 
Director of Thames Water Utilities 
Limited and Chair of Adler and 
Allan Limited
None None Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 55
ANDREW ALLNER
Chairman
DAVID BROWN 
Group Chief Executive
KEITH DOWN 
Group Finance Director
KATHERINE INNES KER
Senior Independent Director
NICK HORLER
Non-Executive Director
ADRIAN EWER
Non-Executive Director
CAROLYN FERGUSON
Group Company Secretary 
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Remuneration committee, 
nomination committee (Chair)
Nomination committee Audit committee, remuneration 
committee (Chair), nomination 
committee
Audit committee, remuneration 
committee, nomination committee
Audit committee (Chair), 
remuneration committee, 
nomination committee
Secretary to the audit committee, 
remuneration committee and 
nomination committee
TERM OF OFFICE
Andrew Allner joined the Board in 
October 2008 and was appointed 
Chairman of the Group in 2013
David Brown was appointed 
Deputy Chief Executive on  
1 April 2011 before his accession 
to Group Chief Executive on  
3 July 2011
Keith Down was appointed to the 
Board as Group Finance Director 
in March 2011. In July 2015 it was 
announced that Keith will leave  
Go-Ahead in late 2015 to take 
up the position of Chief Finance 
Officer at Dunelm plc
Katherine Innes Ker joined the 
Board in July 2010 and was 
appointed Senior Independent 
Director in April 2013
Nick Horler joined the Board  
in November 2011
Adrian Ewer joined the Board  
in April 2013
Carolyn Ferguson was appointed  
Group Company Secretary in  
July 2006
LENGTH OF SERVICE
6 years, 10 months 4 years, 5 months 4 years, 6 months 5 years, 1 month 3 years, 9 months 2 years, 4 months 9 years, 2 months
INDEPENDENT
On appointment – – Yes Yes Yes –
SKILLS & EXPERIENCE 
• Significant Board experience 
including Finance Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Non-Executive 
Director and Chair roles
• Experience across a broad  
range of UK and multinational 
companies and sectors
• Former Partner at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers  
and a Fellow of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants  
in England & Wales
• Graduate of Oxford University
• Non-Executive Director of AZ 
Electronic Materials SA from 
2010 to 2014, of CSR plc from 
2008 to 2013 and of Moss Bros 
Group plc from 2001 to 2005
• Over 32 years’ experience in  
the industry with particular 
expertise in the London  
bus market
• Former Managing Director of 
Surface Transport at Transport 
for London
• Thorough knowledge and 
understanding of the Group’s 
business, having been Chief 
Executive of Go-Ahead’s 
London bus business from  
2003 to 2006 and as advisor  
to the main Board
• Chartered Accountant
• Former Finance Director  
of JD Wetherspoon plc
• Before joining JD Wetherspoon 
plc in 2007 he served as 
Commercial Finance  
Director of T esco plc
• Experience in businesses with a 
strong consumer angle alongside 
complex logistics is an important 
contribution to the Board’s  
skill set
• Former City financial analyst
• Extensive executive and 
non-executive experience  
in helping to grow successful  
and dynamic organisations
• Held many previous non-
executive directorships including 
St Modwen Properties Plc, 
Victoria plc, T aylor Wimpey plc, 
T aylor Woodrow plc, The 
T elevision Corporation plc, 
Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, 
Shed Media plc and Gyrus 
Group plc
• Former Chief Executive Officer 
of Scottish Power and Managing 
Director of E.On Retail
• Extensive general management 
experience in UK and USA 
regulated markets, specialising  
in Sales and Marketing
• Brings valuable insights into 
Go-Ahead’s development  
of social networks and  
digital marketing to attract  
new passengers
• Former Chief Executive Officer 
of John Laing plc and associated 
limited companies
• Became a Chartered Accountant 
in 1977 and has sound recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
• Wealth of experience of major 
long term contracts
• Strong customer focus and  
flair for strategy and finance
• Experience in bidding and 
operating heavy and light  
rail franchises as well as rail 
infrastructure procurement
• A Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators
• Qualified and practising  
coach and mentor
• Prior to her appointment as 
Group Company Secretary  
she was appointed Assistant 
Company Secretary in 2001  
with responsibility for non-rail 
pensions and a wide range of 
company secretariat functions
• Before joining Go-Ahead she 
spent 12 years working for 
Northern Electric, predominantly 
in the field of pensions
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
Non-Executive Chairman of 
Marshalls plc (Chairman of the 
nomination committee); Non-
Executive Director of Northgate 
plc (Chairman of the audit and 
risk committee and member of 
the nomination and remuneration 
committees) and Non-Executive 
Chairman of Fox Marble Holdings 
plc (member of remuneration 
committee)
Non-Executive Director of the 
ATOC Limited (Chair of the 
remuneration committee)  
and Director of Rail Delivery 
Group Limited
Non-Executive Director of T opps 
Tiles plc (Chair of the audit 
committee and member  
of the remuneration and 
nomination committee)
Senior Independent Director 
of Tribal Group plc (Chair of 
the remuneration committee 
and member of the audit and 
nomination committees); Chair of 
the Mortgage Advice Bureau and 
Non-Executive Director of Colt 
Group S.A (member of audit  
and remuneration committees)
Non-Executive Director of Royal 
Mail Plc (member of the audit & 
risk and nomination committees); 
Chair of Alderney Renewable 
Energy Limited; Chair of Meter 
Provida Limited and Meter Provida 
Investments Limited; Non-Executive 
Director of Thames Water Utilities 
Limited and Chair of Adler and 
Allan Limited
None None 56 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD
Board and executive Strategy and performance Finance Risk and governance Major approvals
• Setting the Group’s vision  
and values
• Approval of the Board’s policies 
and procedures including 
delegated authorities and the 
terms of reference of all 
committees of the Board
• Reviewing the performance of 
the Board, its committees and 
individual directors on an 
annual basis
• Determining the remuneration 
policy for the executive 
directors and senior 
management
• Succession planning and 
appointments to the Board  
and senior management
• Setting the long term 
strategy, targets and 
objectives to achieve long 
term shareholder value
• Approval of the 
corporate plan for the 
Group and individual 
operating companies 
• Setting and monitoring 
key performance 
indicators 
• Oversight and monitoring 
of the corporate plan 
and performance  
against strategy
• Approval of the 
Group and Company 
financial statements 
and ensuring that the 
Annual Report is fair, 
balanced and 
understandable
• Approval of dividend 
policy and 
recommending 
dividends payable
• Approval of key 
financial policies 
including accounting, 
fuel hedging, tax and 
treasury policies 
• Managing a sound 
framework of risk 
management and internal 
controls and setting the 
Board’s risk appetite 
• Approval of the Group’s  
key policies, including  
health & safety, corporate 
social responsibility and 
sustainability 
• Ongoing review of the 
Group’s corporate 
governance framework  
and policies against  
best practice
• Approval of material 
capital projects, 
investments, 
acquisitions, franchises 
and disposals
• Approval of changes 
to the Group’s 
corporate structure 
and constitution
• Approval of all share 
schemes and share 
buy-back 
programmes
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
The audit committee has responsibility for 
overseeing and monitoring the Group’s 
financial statements, internal and external 
auditors, accounting policies and processes, risk 
management systems and the effectiveness of 
internal controls. The committee also provides 
assurance to the Board that the Annual Report  
is fair, balanced and understandable. 
See the audit committee report on page 63 
Remuneration Committee
The remuneration committee has responsibility 
for the Group’s overall remuneration framework 
and policy, including setting targets and reviewing 
outcomes in accordance with strategy. The 
committee ensures governance and best  
practice principles are integrated into 
remuneration policy, and that remuneration 
reporting is clear and transparent.
See the directors’ remuneration report on page 70 
Nomination Committee
The nomination committee regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and its committees, particularly in the context of 
experience, diversity and strategic direction. The 
committee reviews Board and senior management 
succession planning, leadership talent development 
and pipelines, in addition to wider Group diversity 
and developing people policies and initiatives. 
See the nomination committee report on page 68 
OUR DEVOLVED FRAMEWORK
Go-Ahead is headed by an effective Board, which is collectively responsible for 
the long term success of the Group. Day to day management of the Group  
and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board across the Group 
and operating companies have been delegated to the executive directors.  
The executive directors meet regularly with senior management in Group  
and across our businesses both formally via monthly meetings and less formally 
on a regular basis. The Group’s Board and governance framework is shown 
below. We believe that this devolved management structure enables the Group 
to be managed in a particularly effective way with a structure that allows the 
right balance between local and wider initiatives to deliver Group benefits.  
It also ensures the Board remains well informed about our businesses, 
employees, passengers and stakeholders, enabling it to respond pro-actively  
to the changing dynamics of the business.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
BOARD AND GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
DEVOLVED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Operating Company Boards Rail and Bus Steering Groups & Forums Group Executive T eam 
Local senior management teams, who 
know their markets well, are empowered 
to operate our operating companies as 
autonomous business units. Many aspects 
of the Group’s day-to-day management 
are reported by operating company senior 
management directly to the executive 
directors who in turn keep the Board 
appraised of all operational matters.
Our cross-business groups, which comprise 
the managing directors in each operating 
company, meet with the executive directors 
on a regular basis to work together to 
explore and identify new opportunities  
and initiatives and share knowledge, 
experience and best practice across our 
operations. These groups are supported  
by the cross-business forums which include, 
but are not limited to, health and safety, 
engineering, HR and diversity forums.
The senior managers responsible for the key 
centralised Group functions meet monthly  
with the executive directors to review the 
business and identify, execute and track 
synergies which can then be cascaded  
through the cross-business groups and forums.  
These functions include, but are not limited 
to the areas of IT, procurement, bus and rail 
business development and marketing. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 57
BOARD MEETINGS
The Board has a planned schedule of meetings arranged for the year, and 
a separate meeting dedicated to reviewing the Group’s strategy, which 
all directors attended. During the year a number of additional meetings, 
predominantly to discuss franchise bids, were also held by conference call.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors periodically meet without 
the executive directors being present. During the year, the Chairman met 
individually with each director. 
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation  
with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary. Detailed 
briefing papers in relation to the business to be conducted at each meeting  
are circulated to the Board electronically at least one week before each  
meeting. The executive directors and Group Company Secretary are readily 
available should any Board member wish to receive additional information. 
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate, and the 
Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda 
items, in particular strategic issues. 
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS IN 2014/15
Directors’ attendance at scheduled meetings they were eligible to attend: 
Board attendance Board
Audit 
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee
T otal meetings 8 4 3 1
Andrew Allner 8 – 3 1
David Brown 8 – – 1
Keith Down 8 – – –
Katherine Innes Ker
*
7 3 2 0
Nick Horler 8 4 3 1
Adrian Ewer 8 4 3 1
* One meeting missed due to a bereavement.
Although not a member of all the committees, David Brown and Keith Down 
attended a number of audit committee, remuneration committee and 
nomination committee meetings as invited attendees.
MATTERS RESERVED
In addition to the responsibilities of the Board, the Board has a formal schedule 
of matters reserved for its decision. This schedule is reviewed by the Board  
each year and the full schedule can be found on the Group’s corporate  
website www.go-ahead.com. 
Routine matters also considered at all Board meetings include:
• Key issues and strategic matters
• The Group Chief Executive’s report on safety, sustainability, strategic  
and business developments
• The Group Finance Director’s report which includes the latest available 
management accounts
• Performance against financial and non-financial KPIs
• Investor relations report
• Where applicable, reports from the audit, remuneration and nomination 
committees
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive hold distinctly separate roles  
and the division of responsibility between these roles is clearly established,  
as shown on page 58. The Board has adopted a written Statement of Division  
of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.  
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness by promoting challenge 
and debate and ensuring a regular evaluation process. The Group Chief 
Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision  
of the Group in accordance with the strategies and values set by the Board.  
The evaluation of the Board confirmed that the developing relationship of  
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive was seen as working well and  
was a source of satisfaction and strength to the wider Board. The Chairman  
is supported by the Senior Independent Director who provides a sounding 
board to the Chairman and is an alternative point of contact for directors  
and shareholders, where contact with the Chairman or Group Chief Executive 
is inappropriate. 
The Chairman holds regular informal meetings and dinners with the Board 
members to help build relationships and foster mutual understanding of roles 
and personalities. This has also led to greater challenge and more constructive 
debates in the Boardroom where integrity and effective decision making is 
considered to be of utmost importance. 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its power  
to authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Group’s 
articles of association. The Board considers that the procedures in respect  
of this power, which have been properly followed, have operated effectively 
during the year and the conflicts’ register has been updated accordingly.  
The Board is aware of its directors’ other commitments and any changes to 
these commitments are advised to and approved by the Board committees. 58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
INDIVIDUAL ROLES OF THE BOARD
CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
• Operation, leadership and governance  
of the Board
• Board effectiveness
• Sets Board agenda, style and tone of 
Board discussions
• Ensures the directors receive accurate, 
timely and clear information
• In conjunction with the Group Company 
Secretary, ensures that new directors 
receive a comprehensive induction 
programme
• Effective communication with 
shareholders
• Sets the tone of the Group’s culture and 
values and ensures that these continue  
to be strengthened and embedded  
across the Group
• Overall responsibility and leadership  
for Group performance
• Communicates the vision and values  
of the Group
• Stewardship of Group assets
• Plans and executes objectives and 
strategies
• Maintains a close working relationship  
with the Chairman, ensuring effective 
dialogue with investors and stakeholders
• Manages the senior management team
• Has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
sustainability performance
• Ensures that leadership and development 
frameworks are developed to generate  
a positive pipeline of future opportunities 
for the Group
• Maintains strong financial management  
and implements effective financial controls
• Plays a lead role in the development and 
implementation of corporate strategy
• Provides financial and commercial decision 
leadership vision and support
• Ensures the appropriateness of risk 
management systems
• Leads the development of investor  
relations strategy and communications
• Responsible for corporate finance functions, 
financial planning and budget management
• Supports and advises the senior 
management team
• Oversees all aspects of accounting/finance 
operations including accounting policies and 
integrity of financial data and external 
financial reporting
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
• Acts as a sounding board for the 
Chairman
• Serves as an intermediary for  
other directors
• Is available to meet shareholders if they 
have concerns which they have not been 
able to resolve through the normal 
channels of the Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive or Group Finance Director or 
for which such contact is inappropriate
• Conducts an annual review of the 
performance of the Chairman and 
convenes a meeting of the non-executive 
directors to discuss the same
• Provide constructive challenge
• Help develop strategy
• Scrutinise performance of management
• Monitor reporting of performance
• Ensure integrity of financial information
• Ensure financial controls and systems  
of risk management are robust and 
defensible
• Determine appropriate levels of 
remuneration for the executive directors
• Are available to meet with major 
shareholders
• Secretary to the Board and its committees
• Ensures efficient information flows  
within the Board and its committees  
and between senior management and 
non-executive directors
• Facilitates induction of new directors  
and assists with training and development 
needs as required
• Ensures compliance with Board procedures 
• Regularly updates the Board on corporate 
governance matters, legislative changes and 
regulatory regimes affecting the Group
• Co-ordinates external Board evaluation  
and conducts internal Board evaluations
For full details of our directors’ biographies see pages 54 and 55  Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 59
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD COMPOSITION
On 27 June 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, three non-executive 
directors and two executive directors. The Board is confident that collectively it 
brings a wealth of knowledge and a comprehensive mix of skills and experience. 
The biographies of all members of the Board, outlining the experience they 
bring to their roles, are set out on pages 54 and 55. The composition of the 
Board did not change during the year.
ELECTION & RE-ELECTION TO THE BOARD
All directors are required by the Group’s articles of association to be elected 
by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board. 
Subsequently, all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders  
as recommended by the Code.
The performance of all directors is objectively and rigorously reviewed on  
an annual basis and this is used as the basis for recommending re-election  
of directors to shareholders. 
The performance evaluation reviews undertaken during the year confirmed  
that members of the Board and its committees have the appropriate balance  
of skills, experience and diversity of background to enable them to discharge 
their duties and responsibilities effectively. Their views carry significant weight  
in the Board’s decision making and no individual or group of individuals 
dominates decision making. The Board works well together to bring 
independent and balanced judgement to their deliberations. The  
non-executive directors are independent in both character and judgement  
and the Chairman was considered independent on his appointment.
As such, and in accordance with the Group’s articles of association and  
the Code, all directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election  
at the 2015 AGM. Full details of the performance evaluation process can be found  
on page 60 
TIME COMMITMENTS
The nomination committee regularly assesses the other commitments of  
all directors. This year, the committee was again satisfied that there are no 
conflicts of interest and that all directors, particularly those who are also chairing 
committees, have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities. Prior to any new 
commitments being made by directors, agreement is sought from the Chairman.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
The Group maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives 
appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors. The Group 
has also granted indemnities to each of its directors to the extent permitted  
by law. Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 234  
of the Companies Act 2006) were in force during the year ended 27 June 2015 
and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the directors 
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or employees of 
the Group or of any associated company. Neither the Group’s indemnity nor 
its insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to have acted 
dishonestly or fraudulently.
INDUCTION
All new directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly before 
or upon joining the Board. Each induction programme is personalised, tailored 
specifically to take into account the director’s previous experience and 
background and is targeted to particular areas of focus. It is designed to enhance 
the new directors’ understanding of their roles and responsibilities and develop 
their knowledge in relation to the transport industry generally, and, specifically, 
the Group’s structure and operations. The Group Company Secretary, in 
collaboration with the Chairman, agrees the personalised induction plan  
with each new director. During the year, there were no new directors who 
required an induction.
DIRECTOR LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
The Chairman regularly encourages the non-executive directors to 
continually update their skills, knowledge and ongoing familiarity with  
the Group in order to competently carry out their responsibilities.  
This is achieved as follows:
• Regular presentations at Board meetings from senior management on 
matters of significance. Examples during the year included presentations 
on rail franchising opportunities and bidding, overseas rail and bus 
strategy, as well as succession planning and leadership programmes
• The non-executive directors have a planned programme of operating 
company visits during the year; they also usually attend the Group’s 
annual senior management conference
• Regular updates on the Group’s businesses as well as updates on 
corporate governance and legislative/regulatory issues. Updates are  
by way of written briefings from the Group Company Secretary, 
presentations from management and presentations from external 
advisors. During the year under review updates focused on the  
revisions to the Code and boardroom best practice
• Regular updates on political and market related issues as well as 
compliance training. During the year this included updates on the  
Quality Contract Scheme in the north east and the possible outcomes 
and impact of the general election on the Group
Equally, as part of their annual performance evaluation, directors are given 
the opportunity to discuss their own training and development needs. 
Directors are expected to take responsibility for identifying their training 
needs and to take steps to ensure each is adequately informed about the 
Group and their responsibilities as a director. The Board is confident that  
all of its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform 
the functions required of a director of a listed company.
DIRECTORS’ TENURE
*
2-4 years
33%
Nick Horler (Non-Executive Director)
Adrian Ewer (Non-Executive Director)
4-6 years
67%
Andrew Allner (Chairman)
David Brown (Group Chief Executive)
Keith Down (Group Finance Director)
Katherine Innes Ker (Senior Independent Director)
* There are no directors with 0-2 years service 60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
BOARD EVALUATION
At the start of the reporting year, an internal Board effectiveness review was undertaken by the Group Company Secretary. The Group Company Secretary  
has significant insight into both the day-to-day and strategic workings of the Board and is therefore considered a suitable and independent sounding board  
for this process. T o ensure continuity, the process was in line with that reported in the previous year and included ‘peer to peer’ director assessment.
INTERNAL BOARD REVIEW INSIGHTS
During one-to-one detailed and focused discussions, directors were asked 
their views on a broad range of subjects with the general theme around 
areas of boardroom best practice.
AREAS OF INTERNAL BOARD EVALUATION
KEY FINDINGS
• Leadership and culture 
The Board was found to be well run, with all Board members engaged 
and positive Board dynamics. The initiatives led by the Chairman, to foster 
relationships inside and outside the Boardroom, were positive and 
welcomed improvements to building the trust and relationships that 
underpinned Board effectiveness.
• Challenge and decision making  
Sufficient information was provided, in a timely manner, in order to  
make informed decisions. The Chairman set the right tone from the  
top, with an approach that optimised collegiality, transparency and 
freedom of expression among Board directors. There was a robust, 
thorough and inclusive decision making process, with the right level  
of debate and challenge
• Strategy  
All Board members were clear about, and supportive of, the Group’s 
current strategy and process for strategic discussion and decisions. 
Further consideration was planned on how to integrate strategy even 
further into Board meetings throughout the year, as a follow on from  
the annual strategy day, with more time given to free-flow discussion  
and deeper debate on key areas
• Risk  
The changes to improve the top-down process for risk assessment now 
allows more time to focus on the key risks that could impact the delivery 
of strategy. A more structured and documented process would however 
be needed around the Board’s actual risk discussions, particularly in light 
of the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code
• Board composition 
There was a good balance of skills, experience, gender and diversity 
generally, particularly in the context of a small Board, where each 
appointment was inevitably more significant. Achieving greater  
diversity at executive level and below was a more fundamental  
long term business priority
Given the timing of the previous internal review in 2013, significant  
progress had already been made on the recommendations by the end of 
the last reporting year. The actions taken were detailed on page 59 of last 
year’s annual report. The internal review this year revisited these actions to 
ensure that the good practice continued and also found that even further 
progress had been made in some areas. In particular, the Board’s oversight 
of succession planning and talent management had taken a step forward  
in the last year, with much more information provided and review at Board 
level to help inform the delivery of strategy. The increased engagement and 
inclusive approach with senior managers was also seen as a valuable and 
positive addition to decision making.
EXTERNAL BOARD EVALUATION
In order to better align the timing of the Board’s performance review with 
annual reporting, the external review was brought forward. Condign Board 
Consulting (“Condign”) was appointed to undertake this review. Condign 
did not provide any other services to the Group during the year. Given the 
timing of the recent internal review and the actions already implemented the 
Chairman expressed a desire for the external review to be forward looking, 
constructive and developmental. The theme of the external review was 
therefore based on what may need to change for the Board to maximise  
the delivery of strategy. 
The process involved Condign initially meeting with the Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director and Group Company Secretary to discuss the scope  
and participants. A discussion guide was then sent to all participants in advance 
of one-to-one meetings with all Board members. Condign also received Board  
and committee meeting papers and attended these meetings as an observer.  
A briefing meeting was then held with the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and Group Company Secretary to discuss the interim report and 
feedback before a final report was sent to all Board members ahead of 
discussion at the next Board meeting.
In addition to the full Board, a number of senior executives were also selected 
to participate to ensure that the evaluation encompassed the input of those 
who interact with the Board so that the exercise did not simply represent the 
Board’s own view of itself. Formal ‘peer-to-peer’ director evaluation was not 
included as part of the external review as this had been undertaken at the 
recent internal review. 
KEY FINDINGS OF EXTERNAL BOARD REVIEW
In summary, the external review also found the overall functioning of the Board 
to be at a very good level and had improved markedly over the course of the 
last two years. This was largely seen to be from the new initiatives introduced 
by the Chairman, the development of the Group Chief Executive’s relationship 
with the Board and their partnership together. Good Board dynamics, open 
dialogue and constructive challenge were observed, with governance at a high 
standard. Most of the priorities from the previous two internal evaluations had 
been dealt with, or were in progress, which had contributed positively to the 
current position.
LEADERSHIP 
AND 
CULTURE
CHALLENGE  
AND DECISION 
MAKING
BOARD 
COMPOSITION
RISK
STRATEGY Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 61
RECOMMENDATIONS
There were a number of recommendations, as shown below, which the Board 
discussed at a meeting with Condign. At the time of this report being published,  
the actions in response to the recommendations were still being considered.  
A summary of the key areas which the Board are considering are shown below. 
Full details, including progress against them, will be provided in next year’s  
annual report.
• Stakeholder management and corporate reputation 
Consider how to maximise the non-executive directors’ participation  
in stakeholder management
• Strategy development/iteration 
Consider the timing and format of more regular formal strategy updates
• Organisation and Group structure 
Review Group and organisation structure, and succession and talent  
planning to further support Group strategic objectives
• T op down consideration of risk 
Consider new approaches to the assessment of risk including how the  
Group improves its articulation of risk appetite
• Non-executive director rotation/succession 
Plan for the next Board refreshment and crystallising non-executive  
director rotation points in the light of future needs
• Executive team development HR/diversity 
Develop internal and external candidate pools from non-traditional sources
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
BOARD PROCEDURES MANUAL
The Board is supplied with high quality information, presented in a form 
appropriate to enhance Board effectiveness. A comprehensive Board 
procedures manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the 
working of the Board and its committees, delegated authorities, the timely 
provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities  
of directors, including standards of conduct and compliance. This manual  
is regularly updated to ensure it is consistent with current best practice.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
The Group Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice 
and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with and 
that Board and committee papers are circulated to all directors by electronic 
means ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information. 
The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as secretary 
to the Board and its committees. She reports to the Group Finance Director on 
all other company secretariat matters, including the management of the Group’s 
bus pension arrangements. Her biography can be found on page 55.
INDEPENDENT ADVICE
All directors may take independent professional advice, at the Group’s  
expense, if they believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of  
their duties as directors.
RELATIONS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Collaboration with stakeholders and partnership-working is fundamental  
in our approach and the long term sustainability of our business.
As a leading provider of transport in the UK, we face a wide range of  
complex issues. Some of those issues are within our control, some we seek  
to influence and others are more challenging to manage and require strong  
and collaborative relationships with our stakeholders, which can be seen to  
give us a positive advantage in our market.
OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
Our customers, people, communities, investors, government, strategic partners 
and suppliers are our key stakeholders that may have a material impact on the 
successful delivery of our strategic targets. 
RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
OUR PEOPLE COMMUNITIES INVESTORS
High levels of employee engagement, 
commitment and job satisfaction contribute 
directly to the success of Go-Ahead. The 
majority of our people are members of 
trade unions and our local teams foster  
good relationships with their representatives.
Our businesses are part of the local 
communities in which they operate. Our  
aim is to play a constructive role in the 
villages, towns and cities we serve, working 
closely with local community groups.
As a publicly listed company we provide open 
and transparent information which enables 
informed investment decisions to be made. 
Providing information so that investors can 
make informed decision is a priority for us. 
Feedback from our shareholders forms part  
of strategic discussions in the Boardroom.
GOVERNMENT STRA TEGIC P ARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS
Policy and regulatory changes affect our  
bus and rail business. Working closely with 
both central and local government enables 
us to provide input into new policies and 
ensure we receive regular feedback on  
our performance.
Professional relationships with core suppliers 
help to ensure and support efficient delivery 
of our passenger transport services. We have 
an ethical procurement policy demonstrating 
our values are extended to our supply chain 
and those who do business with us.
We need to know how we are performing  
and our passengers’ perception of our  
services so we can deliver change and 
improvements. We understand our local 
markets and strive to meet our passengers’ 
needs, including accessibility.
   For more about our relationship with our stakeholders, visit: www.go-ahead.com  62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Go-Ahead’s Board has always been committed to reporting in a fair, balanced 
and understandable manner and places great importance on transparent, 
relevant and timely communication with shareholders. Throughout the year,  
we maintained open and frequent dialogue with investors, providing updates  
on strategy, objectives and governance. 
The Group’s investor relations (“IR”) programme, managed by the Group 
IR team, includes regular dialogue between the executive directors and 
current and potential shareholders through group and one to one meetings, 
presentations and conferences. The executive team are also in regular contact 
with sell-side analysts and meet with broker sales teams to communicate the 
Group’s key message to the people dealing with investors every day. We also 
communicate with the investment community through regular news releases 
and trading updates. Financial results and other material news releases are 
issued via the London Stock Exchange as well as being published on our 
corporate website www.go-ahead.com. 
The IR section of our website provides a wealth of information including a 
dedicated results centre, latest news, access to reports, presentations and other 
useful documents, as well as share price, market capital and other shareholder 
information. Investors and other interested parties can subscribe to receive 
news through email updates by registering their details on our website. 
Our website is fully responsive, enabling shareholders to access information  
on the move through a range of mobile devices. 
We continue to use other channels to engage with a wider audience through 
our Facebook and Twitter accounts. We also have a range of award-winning 
social media activities in place across our bus and rail companies, updating 
passengers with real time service information. Combined, Go-Ahead and its 
companies are reaching 250,000 people on Twitter and 140,000 on Facebook. 
During the year we were awarded the most effective communication of overall 
investment proposition and best use of digital communications within the FTSE 
250 category, at the Investor Relations Society Awards 2014. More recently, 
we were recognised for our Investor and analyst communications at the 2015 
Corporate Finance Awards. 
Our investor base is largely UK focused and as such we focus our IR 
programme in the UK. Following our full and half year results we hold investor 
roadshows in London and Edinburgh for institutional investors. We also attend 
the annual conferences held by our corporate brokers. In addition to these 
programmed events, we respond to meeting requests from institutional and 
private holders throughout the year. While key shareholder engagement 
activities are undertaken by the executive directors, overall responsibility 
for ensuring that there is regular and effective dialogue with investors rests 
with the Chairman, who is available to meet investors and appreciates the 
opportunity to do so. The Senior Independent Director and committee chairs 
are also available to meet key investors on request and the Group Corporate 
Communications Director and Head of IR are available to provide updates 
on the Group’s sustainability and broader governance strategies to socially 
responsible investors. 
When appropriate, we host investor events on specific topics. In October 2014, 
investors attended our half-day rail event in which executive directors and 
operational management provided updates on existing and new rail franchises 
as well as strategic plans. 
The IR team provides the Board with regular reports and updates, including 
analysts’ reviews, analysis of the shareholder register and shareholder feedback. 
Understanding our shareholders’ views is important to us. Following our full 
and half year roadshows our corporate advisors gather detailed feedback 
from institutional shareholders which is presented to the Board. This forms 
an important part of the Board’s strategic discussions and also assists the IR 
team in improving the quality of communications. Feedback is also sought by 
the committee chairs; for example, the remuneration committee chair has 
recently consulted with major shareholders on the proposed changes to the 
remuneration policy outlined in this report. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
In addition to individual meetings, the principal communication with all 
shareholders is through the annual report and the AGM. The AGM is attended 
by all directors and all shareholders are invited and encouraged to attend as it 
provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the Group and ask 
questions. There is also the opportunity to meet informally with the directors 
before and after the meeting. 
Full details of the business to be discussed at the Group’s next AGM on 
Thursday 22 October 2015 can be found in the Notice of Meeting. This is sent 
to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and will also be available 
on our website at www.go-ahead.com. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 63
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Adrian Ewer Committee Chair
Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director
Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director
Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary 
“ During the year we conducted a full tender  
of the statutory auditor appointment.”
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On the following pages we set out the audit committee’s report for the year 
ended 27 June 2015. 
During the year, the committee focused on the areas of work highlighted as a 
priority for the audit committee in last year’s report. This included monitoring 
changes in the external regulatory environment to ensure we continue to have 
appropriate financial, compliance and internal controls in place and ensuring  
we are able to exercise our assurance oversight role in the best possible way. 
This work is always an important and recurring priority for the committee  
and one that continues to be at the core of what we do. The committee  
also undertook a formal tender process for the Group’s statutory audit work,  
full details of which can be found on page 67. As a result of this process the 
Board will propose to shareholders at the 2015 AGM that Deloitte LLP  
replace Ernst & Y oung LLP as the Group’s new statutory auditor.
In addition to the audit committee’s main responsibilities detailed opposite,  
we set out below our key highlights for 2014/15 and priorities for 2015/16. 
These key highlights and priorities, in addition to all of the work undertaken  
by the committee during the year, are explained in further detail throughout  
this report. 
Adrian Ewer,
Audit Committee Chair
2 September 2015
AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES
The terms of reference of the audit committee are reviewed at least annually 
to ensure they remain fit for purpose and in line with best practice. The audit 
committee’s terms of reference can be accessed via the corporate website 
www.go-ahead.com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
The audit committee is responsible for:
• Monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance, and reviewing 
significant financial reporting judgements contained in them before their 
submission to the Board for approval
• Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the consistency of significant 
accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have  
been used
• Reviewing the content of the annual report and advising the Board  
on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable
• Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal  
financial controls and internal control and risk management systems
• Reviewing reports from the internal health and safety auditor on  
health and safety audit standards
• Providing assurance to the remuneration committee on quality of  
earnings and budget for performance-related bonus purposes
• Reviewing the adequacy of the whistle blowing system, the Group’s 
procedures for detecting fraud and the systems and controls for the 
prevention of bribery, and receiving reports on non-compliance
• Monitoring and keeping under review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function, including the review and assessment of the annual 
internal audit plan and receiving reports from the internal auditors at  
each meeting
2014/15 AUDIT COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS
• Approval of half year and full year financial statements
• Provided assurance to the Board on whether the 2014/15 Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable
• Focus on the key significant risks that could impact the Group achieving  
its strategic objectives
• Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process
• Ongoing control and assessment of the internal audit process, including 
approval of internal audit plan for the two years ending June 2017
• Strengthening of Group’s cyber security policies
• Conducted a full tender of the statutory external auditor appointment
2015/16 AUDIT COMMITTEE PRIORITIES
In addition to its usual items of business, the audit committee’s priorities  
for 2015/16 are to:
• Continue to monitor changes in the external regulatory environment  
to make sure that we continue to have appropriate financial, compliance 
and internal controls in place
• Support the transition of external auditors from Ernst & Y oung LLP  
to Deloitte LLP and facilitate the induction of Deloitte LLP
• Continue to ensure the committee is exercising its assurance oversight  
role in the best possible way
• Support the Board in responding to the amendments to the updated 
Code published in September 2014, including the assessment of risk  
and risk appetite and the statement on the Group’s viability
• Review of scope and delivery of internal audit 64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED
• Overseeing the Group’s relationship with the external auditor, including 
monitoring and reviewing their performance, assessing their continuing 
independence, making recommendations as to their reappointment (or, 
where appropriate, making recommendations for change), and approving 
their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees payable to them
• Assessing the qualifications, expertise and resources of the auditor and  
the effectiveness of the audit process
• Ensuring that at least once every 10 years the audit services contract  
is put out to tender
COMMITTEE MEETINGS
The audit committee usually meets at least four times a year excluding meetings 
held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation. 
Members’ individual attendance at committee meetings for the year under 
review can be found on page 57.
Meetings of the committee generally take place immediately prior to a Board 
meeting in order to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating with the  
Board. Meetings are attended by the independent non-executive directors.  
By invitation, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director  
and internal and external auditors regularly attend meetings. In order to  
ensure momentum is sustained and matters progressed, the Committee  
Chair holds pre-audit committee meetings with key advisors between  
main committee meetings.
At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate meetings  
with the external and internal auditors, without the executive directors being 
present. The committee members have between them a wide range of business 
and financial experience which enables the committee to fulfil its responsibilities 
in a robust and independent manner. The committee considers Adrian Ewer,  
the Committee Chair, a Chartered Accountant, to have recent and relevant 
financial experience for the purposes of compliance with the Code.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is to  
review, with both management and the external auditors, the appropriateness 
of the interim and year end financial statements. The committee focuses 
amongst other matters, on:
• The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices
• The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting 
standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements
• Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there  
has been discussion with the external auditor
• Whether the report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable
• Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial reporting
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
KEY FINANCIAL AND INTERNAL 
CONTROLS MATTERS FOR 2014/15 HOW THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THESE KEY FINANCIAL MATTERS
Compliance with franchise terms and 
conditions relating to the rail components  
of the Group, specifically relating to the 
accounting for related income and costs  
arising from franchise agreements
The committee regularly reviews the accounting policies relating to income and cost arising from 
franchise agreements. At interim and year end reviews, a full schedule of material income statement  
and balance sheet is assessed against the committee’s expectations and discussed with the  
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities and 
charges, specifically relating to third-party claims 
and lease return and dilapidation provisions for 
rolling stock, stations, depots, other properties 
and measurement of uninsured liabilities 
At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease return and dilapidation 
provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. Management’s 
review is supported by reports from appropriate third-party experts who independently assess  
the required provision based on their industry knowledge and an understanding of the Group’s  
specific circumstances. Increases in provisions, utilisation and release of provisions are all reviewed  
for reasonableness in light of these reports and the Group’s specific circumstances.
Impairment testing in respect of the carrying 
value of goodwill on the Group’s investments
The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as presented by management, is 
challenged by the committee. This is done by assessing the expected performance of the individual  
cash generating units and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of return used  
to assess net present value of future cashflows. The committee also reviews historic performance  
against expectations set in previous years.
Assumptions underpinning the calculation of 
the Group’s defined benefit pension liabilities
Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by independent actuaries. Additionally 
the committee assesses the underlying assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that 
the actuaries’ own assumptions are appropriate for the Group. The committee also discusses the 
appropriateness of the assumptions with the Group’s external auditor.
Ongoing review of changing issues such  
as the impact of European working time 
directive on holiday pay
The audit committee’s review of risks and uncertainties in the wider economy encompasses emerging 
risks and considers each when appropriate to the Group’s circumstances. The committee will seek  
specific legal or other professional advice to support its assessment of areas that could affect the Group.
Understanding and treatment of exceptional 
items in the year end accounts
The committee will consider separate disclosure of exceptional income or costs in light of the FRC 
recommendations of a balanced and consistent approach. The committee is mindful of the need to 
understand the underlying trends of each division within the business with the impact of large and  
unusual items segregated out as necessary to avoid distortions from such non-recurring aspects.
Ensuring operating company compliance with 
Group policies and procedures and maintaining 
the required financial control environment
The committee, together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, approves 
the scope of internal audit including the cycle of visits to test operating company compliance and 
financial control, based on a risk assessment. The results of the internal audit visits are considered by the 
committee, together with management’s responses to any improvement points. Control matters and 
reporting issues identified as part of the external auditors’ interim and year end audits are also reviewed 
by the committee which considers the adequacy of any management responses required. In addition 
management ensure that the recruitment and review process for operating company directors gives 
confidence in the calibre of the operating company teams and their management, and review of the 
control environment in which they operate. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 65
As part of the interim and year end financial statements approval process, the 
committee met with the external auditor. During this exercise the committee 
considered the key audit risks identified as being significant to the 2014/15 
accounts and the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or 
judgemental matters identified during the audit and half yearly review, as well as 
any recommendations or observations made by the external auditor. The primary 
areas of judgement considered by the committee in relation to the key financial 
matters for 2014/15 and how these were addressed are set out opposite.
FAIR, BALANCED & UNDERSTANDABLE
At the request of the Board, the audit committee has considered whether, in its 
opinion, the 2014/15 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced 
and understandable, and whether it provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
A collaborative approach is taken to creating the report which involves direct 
input from key report contributors, including the Board and committee, 
throughout the process and includes the following: 
• Early planning and implementation of timetable with experienced project 
managers for each section 
• Briefings on the requirements of the fair, balanced and understandable 
requirements for all involved; this includes the Corporate Communications, 
Company Secretariat and Group Legal teams as well as Group Finance to 
validate the appropriateness of material disclosed. The inclusion of various 
Group departments, with input from operating divisions as appropriate,  
ensures the balance, completeness and accuracy of the annual report
• Validation of data and information included in the report undertaken  
both internally and by the external auditor
• A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across all sections  
that aim to ensure consistency and accuracy
• Early drafts of the report available to the audit committee to ensure  
timely review and allow comments to be incorporated 
• Audit committee recommendation to the Board 
In considering whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable, the 
committee reflects upon the information it has received and discussions 
throughout the year. The committee also asks a number of key questions  
which include:
• Is the whole story presented and has equal weight been given to all messages?
• Is the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting, with  
key messages reflected in both?
• Is the description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, strategy  
and objectives in the report consistent with the Board’s understanding?
• Are KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the financial reporting?
• Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report, with the 
important messages highlighted appropriately throughout?
• Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects  
the whole story?
Following its review, the committee was of the opinion that the 2015 Annual 
Report and Accounts is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced 
and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
HOW WE MANAGE THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND 
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
THE BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
For the financial year ended 27 June 2015 and up to the date of approval  
of this report, the Board confirms that it has complied with provision  
C.2.1 of the Code, and has established procedures that implement in full  
the guidance given in “Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors  
on the Combined Code” (the Turnbull Guidance).
The Board recognises its responsibility for the Group’s risk management 
and internal control system and is committed to ensuring its adequacy and 
effectiveness in every respect. Any system of internal control can provide only 
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities 
will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is 
eliminated. The Board’s objective is to ensure that the Group has appropriate 
systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The key roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions  
within the Group’s system of risk management are detailed on page 34.  
Through the process outlined in the framework:
• Key risk areas are identified, assessed and prioritised
• Areas for improvement of internal controls and risk management  
are identified
• Action plans are agreed and implemented to achieve such improvements
• Progress against actions is monitored by senior management, the executive 
directors and the audit committee
The other key features of the Group’s internal control and risk management 
system are set out in the table on page 35. The Board has confirmed that 
through its audit committee and that committee’s review of the key financial 
and internal control matters for 2014/15 as detailed on page 64, it has reviewed 
the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management, and considers that this system of internal 
controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the  
date on which the financial statements were signed.
KEY FEATURES OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
Group structure The Group’s devolved organisation structure supports an effective top-down/bottom-up approach  
to risk management and control
Leadership Clear leadership from the Board with the executive directors playing an integral role working with  
operating companies
Board-level reporting Regular review of reports received from the Group’s internal auditor, health and safety consultants,  
external auditor and the executive directors
Health and safety reporting Health and safety standards established across all operating companies and key performance indicators 
monitored on a monthly basis at operating company and Board level
Strategy and financial reporting A comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting and control 
through which the consolidated financial accounts are prepared and submitted to the Board monthly  
and from which the interim and annual consolidated financial reporting is derived
Compliance management Annual certification by each operating company that they have adhered to the Group’s policies and 
procedures manual which reinforces the Group’s corporate governance, internal control processes  
and management of risk 66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
WHISTLEBLOWING & ANTI-BRIBERY PROCEDURES
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness 
and accountability. The Group and all operating companies have whistleblowing 
policies in place. Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under 
the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly 
to assess what action, if any, should be taken. Any matters of significance are 
reported to the audit committee. 
The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act and procedures have 
been established to ensure that compliance is achieved. This sets out what is 
expected from employees to ensure that they protect themselves as well as 
the Group’s reputation and assets. Training has been provided to the Board 
and senior management and is refreshed on a regular basis. Any breach of 
the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially justifying 
immediate dismissal.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The committee’s performance was reviewed both internally this year by the 
Group Company Secretary, and externally by Condign Board Consulting.  
Both reviews found the committee to be effective and well run, with  
particular commendation for the committee’s response to the changes  
in the external regulatory environment and best practice reporting of  
the same. A key area identified from the review was for the committee  
to further develop their approach to the assessment of risk, including  
risk appetite, which is already underway.
INTERNAL AUDITOR
The Group’s internal audit function has been outsourced to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers on a rolling 12 month contract, with overall 
responsibility and direction being retained by the audit committee. The internal 
audit function provides assurance over the effectiveness of key internal controls 
as identified as part of the risk assessment process. In addition to meetings  
with local management, the internal auditor reports to the executive directors 
at least six times a year and to the audit committee at least four times a year. 
The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and maintains the procedures to ensure  
appropriate independence of the internal audit function.
In accordance with the previously agreed internal audit plan for the two years 
ended 27 June 2015 the committee reviewed reports confirming the findings 
from the internal audit reviews undertaken, the actions taken to implement  
the recommendations made in these reports and the status of progress  
against previously agreed actions. The committee also considered and  
approved the new internal audit plan for two years ending June 2017.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REVIEWED AN AUDIT QUALITY FRAMEWORK WHICH ASSESSED THE FOLLOWING  
KEY AUDIT PHASES:
PHASE AREAS COVERED
Audit planning  
and design
• T eam structure and leadership demonstrated by the audit partner
• Integrated audit approach
• Audit tailored to the business
• Leveraging sources of assurance
• Use of innovation and technology
Audit execution • Behavioural factors including professional challenge
• T echnical excellence
• Communication and audit reporting
• Audit efficiency and project management
Independence and  
quality control
• Review of external auditor’s internal quality control procedures
• Consideration of audit firm transparency report in line with the Code, paying specific attention to the sections  
on independence and quality assurance and training
Role of management • Detailed questioning of the role of management both at operating company and Group level Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 67
EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS
The audit committee believed it remained necessary to review the effectiveness 
of the incumbent auditor Ernst & Y oung, despite completing the formal tender 
process for a new statutory auditor. During the year, the Committee Chair 
led the process, the primary purpose of which was to gain assurance that the 
external auditor had conducted a comprehensive, appropriate and effective 
audit. Through a constructive, honest and open dialogue with the external 
auditor about its performance, the objectives of the process were to:
• Assess each phase of the audit process against a quality framework, as  
shown in the table below
• Discuss with the external auditor what areas went well and what could  
be improved
• Result in optimised assurance being derived from the audit
• Help inform the incoming audit firm of any improvements to processes  
that the audit committee will undertake
The assessment was carried out in conjunction with each key phase of  
the audit and so was discussed at each subsequent committee meeting.
The observations from this assessment for the 2014/15 financial year were 
presented and discussed at the August 2015 meeting and it was concluded  
by the audit committee that our audit process was effective.
INDEPENDENCE, OBJECTIVITY AND FEES
The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware  
of the situations that may give rise to the impairment of auditor independence. 
The audit committee carefully considers the objectivity of the auditor on  
an annual basis, in relation to both the audit process and the relationship  
with the Group.
In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the committee  
has, as part of its terms of reference, the following policy for the provision  
of non-audit services by the external auditor:
• The auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can  
be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a 
natural extension of their audit work or there are other overriding reasons 
that make them the most suitably qualified to undertake the work
• The auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services  
to the Group, such as internal audit, and litigation support; the full list  
of which can be found in the committee’s terms of reference
• The provision of certain non-audit services (including accounting and tax 
services if the fees exceed a cumulative £50,000) is subject to approval by 
the audit committee. In 2014, this was reduced from a previous cumulative  
of £250,000
• The ratio of the external auditor’s audit to non-audit fees during the year,  
as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by  
the committee
During the financial year, the principal external auditor’s fees were £0.5m  
(2014: £0.5m); in addition, non-audit fees of £0.2m (2014: £0.1m) were 
payable to the principal auditor. In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other 
providers during the financial year were £1.5m (2014: £1.8m). Approval was 
given for the provision of taxation services where the committee was satisfied 
that the external auditor was able to provide better value for money without 
compromise to their independence. 
Several of our operating companies use Grant Thornton as their auditor.  
T otal fees to Grant Thornton during the financial year were less than  
£0.1m (2014: £0.1m). Grant Thornton received non-audit fees of less  
than £0.1m (2014: £0.1m).
EXTERNAL AUDIT APPOINTMENT
Last year we advised that in accordance with the Code provision C.3.7  
we would be initiating a formal tender process, which would also coincide  
with the timing of the retirement of our current senior statutory auditor.  
The tender process commenced in June 2014 with the publication of an  
OJEU notice and concluded at the end of the calendar year. The Board will 
propose to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM that Deloitte LLP will be the 
Group’s new statutory auditor.
An audit tender panel (the “AT panel”) was established, comprised of  
the Audit Committee Chair, the Group Finance Director and the Group  
Financial Controller. Six firms submitted a response to the pre-qualification 
questionnaire and three were shortlisted to provide presentations to the  
AT panel. The presentations provided the opportunity for detailed discussion 
and rigorous evaluation.
In determining who to appoint, the audit committee took into account a 
number of factors. These included but were not limited to the extensive 
experience of the firms particularly in the listed environment and knowledge 
and experience of the transport industry particularly the rail and bus sectors.
A recommendation was made to the Board to appoint Deloitte LLP , which 
was approved. Ernst & Y oung LLP will therefore resign as auditors with effect 
from the 2015 AGM and a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as the Group’s 
new statutory auditor will be put to the shareholders. A planned process of 
transition from Ernst & Y oung LLP to Deloitte LLP has been agreed. 68 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Andrew Allner Committee Chair
Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director
Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director
Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director
David Brown Group Chief Executive
Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
“ Leadership, talent and succession planning has 
been further embedded across the business.”
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
During the year, the committee focused on the areas of work highlighted as  
a priority for the nomination committee in last year’s report. In conjunction  
with the Board, the committee continued to build upon the initiatives outlined 
in previous years, to focus on its own and senior management succession 
planning, leadership talent development and management pipelines. 
The Board continued to monitor developments in corporate governance  
to ensure we remain at the forefront of good governance practices. One 
example of this was diversity across the workforce where, with oversight  
from the committee, good progress has been made to review the  
strategy and guide policy for diversity and inclusion across the Group. 
While the nomination committee met formally on only one occasion, this  
figure does not depict the actual number of matters, such as succession 
planning, diversity and performance evaluation, that were discussed with  
the full Board throughout the period. It is one of the advantages of a smaller 
Board, in that such discussions are able to easily take place with all Board 
members contributing to the debate. 
There were no changes to the Board during the year however following the 
year end, the Board announced that Keith Down, Group Finance Director, 
would be leaving the Group to join Dunelm plc as Chief Financial Officer at 
the end of the calendar year. At the time of this report being published, Russell 
Reynolds Associates, an external search agency, had been appointed to assist  
the Board with the appointment of a successor. Russell Reynolds Associates  
did not carry out any other services for the Group during the year. Full details  
of the process undertaken will be provided in next year’s annual report.
Andrew Allner,
Nomination Committee Chair
2 September 2015
BOARD COMPOSITION 
The nomination committee considers that the Board consists of individuals 
with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide strong 
and effective leadership of the Group. The Board of Go-Ahead consists of the 
Chairman, three non-executive and two executive directors, who together bring 
a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, personal attributes and 
experience. The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent 
non-executive directors. The committee reviews non-executive director tenure 
and skills set on a regular basis to ensure an appropriate mix of diversity and 
experience aligned to strategy and business needs. The time commitments 
required from the non-executive directors are also reviewed as part of the  
year end process. 
COMMITTEE PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The purpose of the nomination committee is to keep the Board’s governance, 
composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and succession 
arrangements under review and to make appropriate recommendations  
to the Board to ensure the Group’s arrangements are consistent with the 
highest corporate governance standards. A full list of responsibilities is detailed  
in the committee’s terms of reference which are reviewed regularly,  
approved by the Board, and are available on the Group’s corporate website  
(www.go-ahead.com) or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The committee’s performance was reviewed both internally this year by the 
Group Company Secretary, and externally by Condign Board Consulting. From 
both reviews, performance was felt to have improved with better information 
flowing through both the committee and the wider Board, particularly in the 
areas of succession planning, leadership and talent management.
HIGHLIGHTS 2014/15
• Deep-dive review of succession plans for key senior management roles
• Leadership, talent and succession planning developed further and 
embedded 
• Implementation of a range of successful diversity initiatives, including  
the diversity steering forum
• Review of the Board’s diversity policy
• Improved the quality and flow of information to the committee
KEY AREAS OF FOCUS 2015/16
• Board composition and non-executive rotation in the context  
of business needs
• Future orientated Group wide succession planning aligned to strategy
• Further development of the leadership and talent framework and pipeline
• Development of the diversity initiatives in the bus division across the  
rail division and wider Group
• Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director and facilitate his/her 
induction to the Group Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 69
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND TALENT MANAGEMENT
With oversight from the committee and the Board, the Group has fully 
embedded within its operating companies an annual leadership review.  
This process identifies and addresses succession risks for the key roles  
beneath the executive director level and is regularly updated. This review 
consists of two separate elements:
• Succession planning to identify critical roles and succession risks at  
Group and operating company level
• A leadership programme to identify and develop potential successors  
for critical roles
In addition, internal retention strategies were further built upon to include 
career planning, tailored personal development, secondments and improved 
incentive arrangements. 
The Board recognises that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying 
and developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the 
organisation.
Training, personal development and career planning are therefore an  
integral part of how the Group equips people to do their job and encourage 
employees to build a long term career with the Group. The objective is to drive 
high performance, develop the next generation of leaders, reward excellent 
performance and behaviour, and create an engaging culture where individuals 
and teams can be successful in achieving the Group’s strategic objectives.
Our non-executive directors continue to engage with both senior management 
and the broader business. This is something we intend to build on in the  
year ahead and which we believe helps to inform the broader succession 
planning process. 
For further information on succession planning and our people plans, see pages 27 to 29 
BOARD DIVERSITY 
During the year a review of the Board’s diversity policy was undertaken  
with the conclusion that our approach to diversity in the Boardroom  
remained appropriate. 
Our policy states that Go-Ahead recognises and embraces the benefits  
of having a diverse Board. We believe increasing diversity at Board level  
is an essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage. 
We have one female non-executive director on the Board, with the 
percentage of female representation currently 17%. While this is below the 
recommendation of Lord Davies, which was that there should be a minimum 
female representation on Boards of 25% by 2015, the Board’s view is that this 
level of female representation is appropriate at this time. This is particularly  
in the context of the comparatively small size of Go-Ahead’s Board, which  
we feel is appropriate, with all the directors participative and accountable. 
Our policy confirms that the Board aspires to maintain the current level of 
gender diversity going forward and, in considering appointments to the Board 
and to senior management positions, will consider diversity across a wider  
range of areas including gender, background, skill set, experience and expertise. 
Our foremost priority however remains to ensure that Go-Ahead continues 
to have the strongest possible leadership and we will appoint only the most 
appropriate candidates.
Across the Group, our vision is to be a leading employer in the transport  
sector by creating a diverse and inclusive working environment where we 
represent the local communities we serve. We recognise, in line with the 
transport industry generally, that there are barriers to attracting, retaining  
and promoting women in the workplace. The promotion of women to 
the Board and other senior positions within the Group is dependent on 
the recruitment, development and retention of women in the workforce, 
both across the Group and more widely through the industry and business 
community. Since the launch of the Board diversity policy in 2014, with the 
oversight of the committee, a number of initiatives have been developed  
and introduced to promote diversity further:
• The diversity and inclusion forum established last year, with representatives 
from the bus operating companies, has set targets for improvements with 
‘champions’ across each business to sponsor local activities, particularly to 
attract women in driving roles
• A new diversity steering group was established to review strategy and  
guide policy across the Group and operating companies 
• The leadership and talent programmes promote, encourage and support 
participants of all diversities, including gender 
• The annual board evaluation process includes an assessment of the Board’s 
diversity including gender, helping the Board to objectively consider its 
composition and effectiveness
DEVELOPING PEOPLE
The Board recognises the importance of developing people across the Group 
and this was a core topic discussed, in conjunction with succession planning, 
during the year. Consideration was given not only in relation to succession 
planning and the leadership review for senior positions within the Group,  
but also the wider talent programmes and graduate schemes. Focus was on 
the development and implementation of a future focused resourcing strategy, 
to enable talent identification both inside and outside the business. Encouraging 
more local talent development will be key to providing additional pipelines.  
In addition to maintaining the Group and bus graduate schemes, a rail graduate 
scheme will also be introduced.  70 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
“ Our remuneration policy is focused  
on supporting our business strategy.”
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
It is my pleasure to present the directors’ remuneration report for the year 
ended 27 June 2015. 
The report which follows my annual statement has been split into two parts:
• The directors’ remuneration policy, which sets out the Group’s remuneration 
policy for directors for the next three years. As explained below, this policy is 
subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM and will replace the 
policy approved at the 2014 AGM
• The annual report on remuneration, which sets out (i) payments and  
awards made to the directors and details the link between Group 
performance and remuneration for the year ending 27 June 2015 and  
(ii) how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the year ending  
2 July 2016. This report together with my annual statement is subject to  
an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM
The key principles underpinning the remuneration committee’s approach 
to executive remuneration have been to ensure that the way we measure 
and reward performance is aligned to our strategic objectives. Remuneration 
strategy is designed to facilitate the long term success of the Group and 
provides a strong and demonstrable link between incentives and performance 
delivery. Alignment between the interests of our shareholders and executive 
directors is a key focus and this report seeks to provide shareholders with a 
clear and transparent account of how these key principles have been applied  
to achieve the remuneration outcomes for our executive directors. 
PERFORMANCE AND REWARD 2014/15
The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year 
ended 27 June 2015 is shown below. The committee’s unanimous view was that 
the Group’s performance supported the executive directors’ remuneration this 
year. There has been a good set of results, which were aligned with our strategy 
and the Group remains in a strong financial position with strong cash generation 
and a robust balance sheet. Over the year, the Group’s market capitalisation  
has increased by 13.9% to £1.16bn and over the three year period by 124.1%.
The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year 
ended 27 June 2015 is shown below:
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group Chief Executive David Brown 2,163 1,960
Group Finance Director Keith Down 1,265 1,299
 
See pages 78 and 79 for further details 
A large proportion of the executive directors’ remuneration is payable in shares. 
Half of the total annual performance related bonus is awarded as deferred 
shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject to recovery and 
withholding provisions. Awards under the Long T erm Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) are 
also made in shares which further aligns the interests of our executive directors 
with those of our shareholders. In the case of the Group Chief Executive this 
year, around 75% of his total remuneration has been delivered through variable 
pay and over 60% of his total remuneration was delivered in shares.
An annual performance related bonus of 104.4% of salary which is 69.6% of 
maximum bonus (2014: 97.5%) will be awarded to the executive directors.  
The annual bonus this year rewarded the achievement of Group operating 
profit and cashflow targets and the majority of the business objectives set at  
the start of the year. These included challenging Group profit, cashflow and  
non financial targets, the full details of which can be found on pages 78 and 79.  
The remuneration committee used its discretion to adjust the reported 
operating profit of £114.7m by the amount of goodwill writeoff of £4.9m, 
details of which can be found on page 117.
The LTIP awards granted to the executive directors in 2012 will mature 
with 100% of the award vesting (2014: 80%). This long term incentive award 
rewarded the successful implementation of long term value creation targets  
set three years ago and which included stretching total shareholder return, 
earnings per share and strategic target measures. Full details of the performance 
against targets can be found on page 79.
The Group Chief Executive received a base salary increase of 1.8% on 1April 
2015, which is less than the average inflationary increase awarded to all employees 
across the Group, this approach having been consistent for the last four years. 
During the year, the Group Finance Director’s role was expanded to include 
additional commercial responsibilities and in light of the significant increase in 
scope of his role, his salary was increased by 11.35% with effect from 1 April 2015. 
DEPARTURE OF GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
Shortly after the 2014/15 year end, the Board was informed of the Group 
Finance Director’s intention to leave the Group to take up a new role at the 
end of the calendar year. While full details will be disclosed in next year’s annual 
report, we can confirm that the remuneration he will be paid upon leaving will 
be in accordance with our policy. As he will remain employed by the Group on 
the vesting date, the 2012 LTIP award will therefore vest in November 2015, as 
will the performance related deferred shares held for three years since 2012. All 
other LTIP awards and deferred shares will lapse upon cessation of employment. 
This includes half of the annual performance related bonus of 104.4% of salary 
referred to above, the deferred share element of which will not be awarded. In 
addition, he will forfeit any entitlement to bonus for the year ending 2 July 2016. 
L TIP AND REMUNERATION POLICY
The current LTIP was first approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and 
will expire in September 2015. The Company therefore intends to introduce  
a replacement LTIP at this year’s AGM on 22 October 2015. The remuneration 
committee felt it would be appropriate to include as part of the process  
a review of its overall remuneration policy to ensure that it is aligned with 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Katherine Innes Ker Committee Chair
Andrew Allner Chairman
Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director
Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director
Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 71
Group strategy. We shall therefore seek to obtain approval for a revised  
policy at the same time as seeking approval for the new LTIP .  Whilst we believe 
our remuneration arrangements have been effective and are fit for purpose, our 
business has continued to evolve as has the industry in which we operate. We 
are also conscious of changes in remuneration market practice and investors’ 
perspective on certain aspects of remuneration governance. The combination  
of these factors has led us to believe that the time is right to make amendments 
to strengthen our current policy. 
The proposed changes were developed with three main aims:
• T o increase alignment between our strategy and the way we measure  
and reward performance
• T o further strengthen the alignment between executives and our 
shareholders, and longer term shareholder returns
• T o ensure compliance with best practice and corporate governance principles
We have consulted with our major shareholders and shareholder representative 
bodies regarding changes to our remuneration policy for the 2015/16 financial 
year and beyond.
In addition to the introduction of the new LTIP , the key changes proposed to 
our policy going forward are:
• An increase in the level of the Group Chief Executive’s shareholding guideline 
from 100% to 150% of salary and a commensurate increase in the maximum 
LTIP opportunity. This proposal is in light of the growth in both size and 
complexity of the Group driven by our success in bidding for the Thameslink, 
Southern and Great Northern Rail Franchise. Alongside this, the Group has 
also delivered outstanding total shareholder returns (“TSR”) (three year  
TSR of 33.7% p.a.). As a result, the committee believes it appropriate to  
reflect the increased size and complexity of the Group in the Group Chief 
Executive’s total remuneration, with the increase in performance related 
remuneration to tie it to longer term performance and shareholder returns
• For the 2015/16 long term incentive awards, a customer service target will 
replace the operating profit performance condition used for the 2014/15 
grant. This is as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport 
Focus (formerly Passenger Focus) and published in the annual report.  
The measure will be subject to an operating profit threshold. The customer 
service target, split equally between rail and bus, recognises that providing 
high levels of customer service is fundamental to our success and it is a  
key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead. It is a strategic priority 
for the Group to provide high quality service, and it influences our ability  
to retain franchises and to win new ones. Ensuring management is focused 
on this strategic measure is critically important therefore as a driver of long 
term shareholder value. From 2014/15, customer service targets will no 
longer form part of the annual performance related bonus. 
• Growth in adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) and relative TSR are retained 
and will each determine 40% of the award and the customer service target 
will determine 20%.
• Going forwards, the committee has the discretion to vary the weighting  
and choice of metrics for future awards. However, it would consult with 
shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics
• The recovery and withholding provisions will be extended and updated  
so that they apply to all future bonus and LTIP awards and are in line  
with market and best practice
• An additional two year post vesting requirement will apply to vested  
LTIP shares for awards granted from 2015 onwards
I have appreciated the time various major shareholders and their representative 
bodies have put into helping us develop our new remuneration policy and I 
look forward to shareholder support at the forthcoming AGM.
Katherine Innes Ker,
Remuneration Committee Chair
2 September 2015
During the year, our executive directors delivered a good financial  
and strategic performance in bus and rail with overall results ahead  
of initial expectations at the beginning of the year. The highlights of  
the year included:
• Successful mobilisation of the GTR franchise, the UK’s largest franchise
• Successful negotiation of the Southeastern direct award contract
• Submitted bids for Northern and TransPennine Express franchises  
as well as bidding in German rail and Singaporean bus markets
• Sector leading customer satisfaction in regional bus operations
• Profit growth in all divisions of the business
• Rail division profit ahead of initial expectations
• Share price of the Group increased to £26.98 and over the  
three year period to 27 June 2015, the increase was 124.1%
• Continued growth in the bus division operating profit up  
6.6% and margins up 0.5%
• Record passenger numbers in the rail division
• Proposed full year dividend increased to 90p per share,  
an increase of 6.5% in line with our progressive dividend policy
• An improvement in net cash of £335.6m and an adjusted net  
to EBITDA ratio of 1.32x, below the Group’s target level
• Extension of the Group’s bank facility for an additional year  
to July 2020 
• Achievement of key financial targets against a challenging  
operational and political climate
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts & Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, which 
came into force on 1 October 2013 and which set out the new reporting 
requirements in respect of directors’ remuneration, and the Listing Rules. 
The legislation requires the external auditor to state whether, in their 
opinion, the parts of the report that are subject to audit have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the relevant legislation and  
these parts have been highlighted. 72 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
ELEMENT & MAXIMUM PURPOSE & LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGETS
Base salary • Salary is the core reward for the role 
and enables the Group to recruit 
and retain individuals of the calibre 
required to deliver its strategic 
objectives and lead its management 
team, without paying more than is 
necessary
• Base salary also reflects the individual’s 
skills, expertise, experience and role 
within the Group
• Paid monthly in cash
• In determining base salaries, the committee 
considers:
 – Pay levels at companies of a similar size  
and complexity in the FTSE 250
 – External market conditions
 – Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group
 – Individual performance, skills, experience  
in post and potential
• Salaries are normally reviewed annually with 
changes taking effect from 1 April each year
• The committee may also review salaries on an 
ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and/
or there is an increase in their responsibilities
• Annual salary increases for executive 
directors will not normally exceed  
the average increase awarded to  
other UK based employees
• However, larger increases may be 
awarded in certain circumstances 
including but not limited to:
 – Increase in scope of responsibilities 
of the role
 – T o apply salary progression for  
a newly appointed director
 – Where a directors’ salary has fallen 
significantly below market position
• n/a
Performance related bonus 
(“PRB”)
• Focuses on the key priorities for  
the coming year
• Deferral of half of bonus into Group 
shares aligns executive directors’ 
interests with those of shareholders
• Annual, non-pensionable payments made  
after the AGM
• Half of any bonus is paid in cash following  
the AGM and half is paid in shares deferred 
for a period of three years
• Based on the achievement of specific  
financial and non financial objectives
• Subject to recovery and withholding 
provisions for three years following the award
• Maximum of 150% of salary • Performance metrics will normally include Group profit, cash and individual 
strategic goals with profitability accounting for at least half of the opportunity
• A quality of earnings review and health and safety target thresholds also  
apply to the full bonus
Long term incentive  
plan (“LTIP”)
• Aligned to the strategic objectives 
of the Group to deliver long term 
returns to shareholders
• Annual grant of performance shares that 
vest three years after grant (subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions)
• Awards granted from 2015 must be retained 
(other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt 
of the shares) for two further years
• Subject to recovery and withholding 
provisions for three years following vesting
• Maximum of 150% of salary for  
Group Chief Executive and 100% of 
salary for other executive directors
• Exceptional circumstances maximum 
(e.g. on recruitment) of 200% of salary
• Performance measured over three financial years
• Performance metrics will include compound annual growth in adjusted  
EPS and relative TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award
• For the 2015 awards adjusted EPS would have a 40% weighting, relative  
TSR would have a 40% weighting and customer satisfaction ratings in  
our bus and rail divisions will each have a 10% weighting
• For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may  
vest at threshold performance
• The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting of and choice  
of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.  
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing  
significantly different metrics
Pension allowance • Provides a cash alternative to  
pension contributions in line  
with market practice
• Monthly, non pensionable payment,  
paid in cash
1
• A cash allowance of up to 15% of  
salary may be provided
• n/a
Other benefits • Ensures package is competitive with 
market practice and employees have 
a minimum level of insured benefits
• The main benefits include family private  
health care, death in service and life  
assurance cover (4x base salary), free  
travel on the Group’s services and 
professional membership subscriptions
• Benefits are intended to be market 
competitive but are not subject to a 
maximum as the cost of providing the 
insured benefits is set by third party 
providers and can vary from year to year
• n/a
All employee share plans • Executive directors are eligible to 
participate in HMRC approved all 
employee schemes which encourage 
share ownership
• Executive directors may participate in these 
plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently 
prevailing (where relevant), on the same basis 
as other eligible employees
• Participation levels operate in 
accordance with HMRC limits as 
amended from time to time
• n/a
Share ownership • T o align the financial interests of  
the executive directors with those  
of shareholders
• Executive directors are required to retain 
50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and 
deferred share awards until such time as 
the Group Chief Executive has achieved a 
holding of 150% of salary and other executive 
directors have achieved 100% of salary
• 150% of salary holding for the Group 
Chief Executive and 100% of salary 
holding for other executive directors
• n/a
1 The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY OPERATED FROM 28 JUNE 2015 ONWARDS
It is intended that the remuneration policy set out in this report will, if approved for the purposes of section 226D(6)(b) of the Act, take effect immediately after  
the AGM on 22 October 2015.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 73
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
In this section of the report, we set out the remuneration policy for the 
Group operating from 28 June 2015 and which will become formally effective 
following approval from shareholders through a binding vote at the 2015 AGM. 
We do not envisage making any changes to our policy over the next three 
years, however, we will review our policy each year to ensure that it remains 
appropriate. If we feel it necessary to make a change to our policy within the 
next three years, we will seek shareholder approval.
POLICY OVERVIEW
Our remuneration policy aims to ensure that the way we measure and reward 
performance is aligned to our strategy in order to incentivise our executive 
directors to deliver long term value for our shareholders. Remuneration levels 
must not be excessive and be at a level that promotes the attraction, motivation 
and retention of high calibre individuals to deliver performance that will meet 
the strategic objectives of the Group.
CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DETERMINING  
REMUNERATION POLICY
The committee considers shareholder feedback received and guidance 
from shareholder representative bodies more generally when reviewing 
remuneration policy. During the year, the committee undertook a review of 
remuneration policy and consulted with our major shareholders and shareholder 
representative bodies and their feedback has helped shape the policy.
A substantial proportion of the executive directors’ pay is performance-related, 
with half of the annual bonus subject to deferral into the Group’s shares.  
A broad range of financial and non financial targets are included in our incentive 
structure and recovery and withholding provisions have been extended to apply 
to both the annual bonus and LTIP . 
Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee ensures  
that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy.  
The executive directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social and 
governance matters seriously and to consider the long term implications of their 
decision making. Accordingly, in line with the Investment Association’s guidelines 
on responsible investment disclosure, the committee has linked a proportion of 
the annual bonus to the achievement of safety and good governance objectives.
In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the remuneration 
packages offered to employees across the Group. As a point of principle,  
salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration are 
benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain competitive in the markets  
in which we operate.
As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits across the 
businesses which reflect individual responsibility, market and geographical 
location. When considering annual salary increases, the committee reviews  
the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally, as  
it does for any other changes to remuneration policy being considered. 
The Group did not formally consult with employees when drawing up the 
directors’ remuneration policy. However, the Group considers any informal 
feedback received through employee staff surveys or other channels.
ELEMENT & MAXIMUM PURPOSE & LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGETS
Base salary • Salary is the core reward for the role 
and enables the Group to recruit 
and retain individuals of the calibre 
required to deliver its strategic 
objectives and lead its management 
team, without paying more than is 
necessary
• Base salary also reflects the individual’s 
skills, expertise, experience and role 
within the Group
• Paid monthly in cash
• In determining base salaries, the committee 
considers:
 – Pay levels at companies of a similar size  
and complexity in the FTSE 250
 – External market conditions
 – Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group
 – Individual performance, skills, experience  
in post and potential
• Salaries are normally reviewed annually with 
changes taking effect from 1 April each year
• The committee may also review salaries on an 
ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and/
or there is an increase in their responsibilities
• Annual salary increases for executive 
directors will not normally exceed  
the average increase awarded to  
other UK based employees
• However, larger increases may be 
awarded in certain circumstances 
including but not limited to:
 – Increase in scope of responsibilities 
of the role
 – T o apply salary progression for  
a newly appointed director
 – Where a directors’ salary has fallen 
significantly below market position
• n/a
Performance related bonus 
(“PRB”)
• Focuses on the key priorities for  
the coming year
• Deferral of half of bonus into Group 
shares aligns executive directors’ 
interests with those of shareholders
• Annual, non-pensionable payments made  
after the AGM
• Half of any bonus is paid in cash following  
the AGM and half is paid in shares deferred 
for a period of three years
• Based on the achievement of specific  
financial and non financial objectives
• Subject to recovery and withholding 
provisions for three years following the award
• Maximum of 150% of salary • Performance metrics will normally include Group profit, cash and individual 
strategic goals with profitability accounting for at least half of the opportunity
• A quality of earnings review and health and safety target thresholds also  
apply to the full bonus
Long term incentive  
plan (“LTIP”)
• Aligned to the strategic objectives 
of the Group to deliver long term 
returns to shareholders
• Annual grant of performance shares that 
vest three years after grant (subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions)
• Awards granted from 2015 must be retained 
(other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt 
of the shares) for two further years
• Subject to recovery and withholding 
provisions for three years following vesting
• Maximum of 150% of salary for  
Group Chief Executive and 100% of 
salary for other executive directors
• Exceptional circumstances maximum 
(e.g. on recruitment) of 200% of salary
• Performance measured over three financial years
• Performance metrics will include compound annual growth in adjusted  
EPS and relative TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award
• For the 2015 awards adjusted EPS would have a 40% weighting, relative  
TSR would have a 40% weighting and customer satisfaction ratings in  
our bus and rail divisions will each have a 10% weighting
• For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may  
vest at threshold performance
• The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting of and choice  
of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.  
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing  
significantly different metrics
Pension allowance • Provides a cash alternative to  
pension contributions in line  
with market practice
• Monthly, non pensionable payment,  
paid in cash
1
• A cash allowance of up to 15% of  
salary may be provided
• n/a
Other benefits • Ensures package is competitive with 
market practice and employees have 
a minimum level of insured benefits
• The main benefits include family private  
health care, death in service and life  
assurance cover (4x base salary), free  
travel on the Group’s services and 
professional membership subscriptions
• Benefits are intended to be market 
competitive but are not subject to a 
maximum as the cost of providing the 
insured benefits is set by third party 
providers and can vary from year to year
• n/a
All employee share plans • Executive directors are eligible to 
participate in HMRC approved all 
employee schemes which encourage 
share ownership
• Executive directors may participate in these 
plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently 
prevailing (where relevant), on the same basis 
as other eligible employees
• Participation levels operate in 
accordance with HMRC limits as 
amended from time to time
• n/a
Share ownership • T o align the financial interests of  
the executive directors with those  
of shareholders
• Executive directors are required to retain 
50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and 
deferred share awards until such time as 
the Group Chief Executive has achieved a 
holding of 150% of salary and other executive 
directors have achieved 100% of salary
• 150% of salary holding for the Group 
Chief Executive and 100% of salary 
holding for other executive directors
• n/a
1 The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group. 74 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
TOTAL REMUNERATION BY PERFORMANCE SCENARIO FOR 2015/16 FINANCIAL YEAR (£’000)
A significant proportion of executive directors’ potential remuneration is performance-related. This comprises annual bonuses under the performance-related 
bonus and long term incentives under the LTIP . The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the executive directors  
split between fixed, target and maximum remuneration scenarios. The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
Fixed remuneration: base salary as at 1 April 2015, benefits as received in 2014/15 and, for the Group Finance Director only, the value of his pension allowance.
T arget: fixed remuneration plus half of the maximum annual bonus plus threshold vesting under the LTIP .
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus the maximum annual bonus award (150% of base salary) plus 100% vesting of LTIP awards (150% for the Group Chief 
Executive and 100% for the Group Finance Director).
Note: The Group Finance Director will be leaving the Group at the end of the calendar year and therefore fixed remuneration will only be part payable  
with no remuneration payable for LTIP and bonus, these values having lapsed upon cessation of employment.
COMMITTEE DISCRETIONS
The committee operates the Group’s variable incentive plans according to  
their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant. T o 
ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the committee will  
apply certain operational discretions. These include the following:
• Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis
• Determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payment
• Determining the quantum of awards and/or payments (within the limits  
set out in the policy table on page 72)
• Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance
• Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances  
(e.g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and 
special dividends)
• Determining “good leaver” status for incentive plan purposes and applying  
the appropriate treatment
• Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures,  
and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year
If an event occurs, which results in the annual bonus plan or LTIP performance 
conditions and/or targets being deemed no longer appropriate (e.g. a material 
acquisition or divestment), the committee will have the ability to adjust 
appropriately the measures and/or targets and alter weightings, provided that 
the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised  
at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 81 and 85, remain eligible  
for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION 
In choosing the performance metrics and targets we have sought to provide 
a strong and demonstrable link between management incentives and the 
Group’s strategic objectives. We have also sought to set a performance based 
framework for remuneration which is consistent with the Group’s scale and 
unique structure. This enables the executive directors and senior managers 
to share in the long term success of the Group without delivering excessive 
benefits or encouraging short termism or excessive risk taking. It also aligns  
their interests with those of our shareholders.
The choice of performance measures for the performance related bonus is 
based on a mixture of financial, non financial, personal and strategic targets,  
with a clear alignment to the Group’s short and long term strategic objectives.
As the LTIP was due to expire in September 2015, the Group intends to 
introduce a replacement LTIP at this year’s AGM. The performance metrics  
used in the current LTIP have been reviewed in order to ensure they are 
aligned with delivering value to shareholders. As a result of this review, changes 
have been made to the performance metrics used in the LTIP . 
The key change to the LTIP performance metric for 2015/16 will be to replace 
the operating profit measure with customer satisfaction targets. Operating 
profit was introduced in 2012/13 to reflect the three year strategic target to 
increase bus operating profit to £100m and rail operating profit by 2015/16. 
As the Group has made significant progress towards achieving these goals, we 
propose to remove this measure for future LTIP awards and to replace it with a 
measure derived from the Group’s strategic objectives. Customer satisfaction is 
a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead and it is a strategic priority 
for the Group to provide high quality service, with customer service a key 
measure of our performance. It influences our ability to retain franchises and to 
win new ones, and ensuring management is focused on this strategic measure is 
critically important therefore as a driver of long term shareholder value. 
The weighting of the earnings per share (EPS) targets has been increased  
as it is an important growth measure and a driver of shareholder value.  
The weighting on the total shareholder return (TSR) measure has also 
increased as it improves shareholder alignment and is consistent with  
providing long term returns to shareholders.
The committee will have discretion to introduce other measures for future 
awards but would consult with major shareholders before making any  
significant changes.
Details of the specific targets chosen for each of the performance related  
bonus and LTIP for the coming year are set out on pages 83 and 84. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Fix ed
T ar get
Max
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,500 2,000
Bon us Fix ed L TIP
29% 150% 150%
75%
£2,171
£545
37.5% £1,155
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
Fix ed
T ar get
Max
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
100% 150%
75%
Bon us Fix ed L TIP
£1,378
£808
£428
2 5 % Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 75
CONSISTENCY WITH REMUNERATION FOR THE  
WIDER GROUP
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based  
on the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain 
high calibre talent whilst supporting the delivery of the business strategy.  
The committee reviews the remuneration for those employees immediately 
below the executive directors to ensure that this incentivises the delivery of 
both strategy and business objectives.
Through our devolved structure, local management are empowered to create 
tailored remuneration packages on an individual business-by-business basis.  
As a result, the components and levels of remuneration for different employees 
will differ from the policy for executive directors as set out above. Employees 
may receive bonus, pension and share awards which vary according to the 
local business and market practice. The maximum provision and incentive 
opportunity available are determined by the seniority and responsibility  
of the role.
Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors only while 
participation in the DSBP is limited to executive directors and senior management.
It is an important part of Go-Ahead’s values that all colleagues, not just 
management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Group. 
All employees, with at least six months continuous service, therefore have the 
opportunity to participate in our Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
On appointing a new executive director, the committee would seek  
to align the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the  
Group’s remuneration policy as set out on pages 72 and 73. It would aim  
not to pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate and the  
package would take into account the experience and calibre of the individual 
concerned. The remuneration package for a new executive director would  
be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy  
in force at the time of appointment.
Where a newly appointed executive director is required to relocate, the Group 
may pay the costs of relocation if appropriate and may provide tax equalisation 
and assistance with reasonable legal fees.
Any executive director promoted internally may remain eligible for payments 
under incentive plans joined and/or contractual arrangements entered into 
before joining the Board. However the committee will have regard to best 
practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements. 
The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is necessary  
to compensate executive directors for incentives lost from their previous 
employers. The level and timing of such compensation will normally seek 
to reflect or take account of the term and performance conditions of the 
payments or awards forgone on a like for like basis.
Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards or options 
over Group shares but cash and/or time vested payments may be made  
where the committee believes these would offer better value for money  
for shareholders. Existing arrangements will be used where possible, however, 
the committee also reserves the ability to make use of the flexibility provided 
under the Listing Rules without prior shareholder approval. The committee is 
sensitive to investor concerns about such arrangements and will endeavour to 
take cost effective approaches. 
SERVICE CONTRACTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director entered into  
a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 April 2011 and  
7 March 2011 respectively. The term of each service contract is undefined  
and is terminable by either the Group on one year’s notice or by the executive 
director on six months’ notice. The directors’ service contracts are available  
for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
In accordance with their service contracts, the executive directors are able  
to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain any fees paid  
for such services, provided that approval is given by the Board. During the  
year, the Group Finance Director was appointed as a non-executive director  
of T opps Tiles plc and received fees totalling £17,409 (2014: £nil). The Group 
Chief Executive is a non-executive director of ATOC Limited and Rail Delivery 
Group Limited. He does not receive any fees in relation to these roles.
DEPARTURE OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Executive directors’ service contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the 
discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination 
of the contract. Such payments are limited to base salary plus pension allowance 
and other benefits (such as family private healthcare and life assurance cover), 
but would not automatically include entitlement to bonus or share awards.  
The Group can also pay legal fees and outplacement services. There are  
no provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early retirement 
terms. Other than the notice periods specified above, the executive directors 
are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event of early 
termination of a service contract. The committee believes that the contracts 
provide appropriate protection of the interests of shareholders when 
negotiating a termination, at which time the committee would take into  
account the departing director’s duty to mitigate his/her loss when  
determining the amount of any compensation.  76 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS
The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case basis. However, the table 
below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normally apply:
Reason for termination Retirement, redundancy; disability; death or change of ownership Other leavers (e.g. resignation/misconduct)
Salary and contractual 
benefits
Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of any contractual 
benefits for the notice period including any accrued or untaken holiday
Paid to date of termination, including pay  
for any accrued but untaken holiday
Performance related 
bonus (cash)
Bonus awarded (subject to satisfaction of performance targets) for the  
relevant financial year, pro-rated accordingly for the period of employment  
to the date of cessation of employment
No award for year of termination
Performance-related 
bonus (deferred shares)
Awards vest on the date of cessation of employment Awards lapse in full on cessation of employment
Unvested LTIP awards Awards normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the remuneration 
committee determines the award should vest on the date of cessation  
of employment
The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance 
conditions and will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect time elapsed between 
grant and cessation of employment although the committee has discretion  
to waive pro rating where it believes it would be appropriate to do so
Awards lapse in full on cessation of employment
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
REMUNERATION POLICY
The remuneration policy for non-executive directors is set out in the table below. Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about 
their own remuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive directors is 
a fixed annual fee commensurate with the time each director 
is expected to spend on the Group’s affairs and with the 
responsibility assumed as director of a listed company
Fees are set at a level to attract and retain individuals with 
appropriate expertise to complement the Group’s strategy
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely  
of fees, which are set annually by the Board
The level of fees set is subject to the current limits as set out in the  
Group’s articles of association (currently aggregate fees of £500,000  
for all non-executive directors)
Fees are reviewed on 1 April each year with reference to comparable  
listed companies in the FTSE 250
Additional fees  
payable for duties
Additional fees may be paid to non-executive directors  
who are Chairmen of a Board committee and/or who  
occupy the role of senior independent director to reflect  
the additional responsibility and time commitment required
Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive performance-related 
remuneration or pension entitlements or to participate in share option schemes
Non-executive directors may also be provided with limited travel, hospitality  
and accommodation expenses.
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months. The terms of appointment contain no entitlement  
to compensation for early termination. The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office during normal business hours  
and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below:
Director Date of service contract
Notice period  
from the Company
Notice period  
from the director
Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months
Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months
Nick Horler November 2011 6 months 6 months
Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months
RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
In accordance with the Group’s articles of association and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are required to submit themselves 
for re-election at each AGM. Accordingly all directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election at the Group’s AGM on 22 October 2015. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 77
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
INTRODUCTION
This section details the remuneration of the Board during the financial year 
ended 27 June 2015. T ogether with the remuneration committee’s annual 
statement on pages 70 and 71, it will be proposed for an advisory vote  
by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS
The committee held three scheduled meetings during the year, excluding 
additional meetings to review and discuss remuneration policy and shareholder 
feedback and performance evaluation. Details of the members’ attendance  
at committee meetings can be found on page 57.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The committee’s principal responsibilities are to:
• Review the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s 
remuneration policy
• Determine and approve the remuneration policy for the executive directors 
and senior management, including bonuses and share awards and the balance 
between the fixed and performance-related elements of pay
• Regularly review the design and targets for performance-related pay 
arrangements and approve the total annual payments
• Determine the policy for executive directors’ service agreements, including 
recruitment and termination payment policies
• Oversee the salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management 
within the Group
• Determine the fees of the Chairman
The members of the committee have no personal interests in the matters  
to be decided by the committee other than as shareholders, and have no 
conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships. Committee members  
did not attend meetings where matters associated with their own remuneration 
were considered.
During the year, the committee’s recommendations were all accepted 
unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually and approved by  
the Board. They are available on our corporate website at www.go-ahead.com 
or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS TO THE COMMITTEE
New Bridge Street (“NBS”) (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part  
of Aon plc) act as independent remuneration advisors to the committee.  
The advisor was selected through a thorough process led by the Chair  
of the remuneration committee and was appointed by the committee.  
Neither Aon Hewitt Limited nor the wider Aon plc provided any other  
services to the Group during the year and therefore the committee was 
satisfied that it provided objective and independent advice. NBS is a  
member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with  
its code of conduct. The fees payable to NBS for advice throughout the  
year were £20,778 (2014: £19,079).
2014/15 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS
In addition to the remuneration committee’s principal responsibilities  
detailed above, we set out below our key highlights during the year ended  
27 June 2015, which can be broadly divided into the following areas:
REMUNERATION POLICY
• Reviewing overall remuneration policy to ensure it is aligned with  
Group strategy and complies with best practice principles
• Consulting with major shareholders and shareholder representatives  
on changes to remuneration policy, in particular in relation to the LTIP
• In conjunction with the current LTIP expiring in 2015, agreeing new  
rules for the replacement LTIP
SETTING TARGETS & REVIEWING OUTCOMES
• Setting the executive directors’ LTIP and performance related bonus  
targets for 2015/16 
• T esting the performance conditions and level of vesting for  
the 2012/13 LTIP
• Reviewing performance against targets for the annual performance  
related bonus 2014/15
REWARD FRAMEWORK
• Reviewing the levels of pay for the executive directors in the annual  
salary review and making recommendations to the Board in respect  
of the remuneration of the Chairman
• Reviewing the overall remuneration policy for senior management 
GOVERNANCE
• Considering remuneration best practice to ensure it is integrated into 
remuneration policy, strategy and implementation
• Ensuring remuneration reporting is clear, transparent and in accordance 
with best practice reporting
2015/16 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PRIORITIES
In addition to setting targets and reviewing outcomes, the committee  
will also focus on the following priorities which will be to:
• Ensure that the Group’s remuneration policy for the departure of 
executive directors is applied for the remuneration of the departing  
Group Finance Director
• Ensure that the Group’s recruitment remuneration policy is taken  
into account when appointing the new Group Finance Director
• Set targets and review outcomes for performance related remuneration
• Continue to remain abreast of best practice and market developments  
in remuneration and reporting
• Monitor the ongoing balance between long term and short term  
incentives to ensure that they remain appropriately aligned to the  
Group’s strategic objectives
• Provide ongoing training and support for committee members 78 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
At last year’s AGM (24 October 2014) the directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Directors’ remuneration policy Directors’ remuneration report
Shareholder vote T otal number of votes % of votes cast T otal number of votes % of votes cast
For 21,489,111 96.71% 25,012,991 97.59%
Against 651,724 2.93% 538,681 2.10%
Discretionary 78,990 0.36% 78,377 0.31%
T otal votes cast (excluding withheld) 22,219,825 100% 25,630,049 100%
Votes withheld 3,452,025 41,801
T otal votes cast (including withheld votes) 25,671,850 25,671,850
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BASE SALARIES
Base salary levels for executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2016 when they will be reviewed again:
Executive directors From 1 April 2015 From 1 April 2014 % Increase
David Brown £541,800 £532,200 1.8%
Keith Down £380,000 £341,251 11.35%
Keith Down’s increase reflected the significant increase in the scope of his role to include wider commercial responsibilities.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the year ended 27 June 2015. Comparative figures  
for 2014 have also been provided. 
Short term incentives
(Performance-related bonuses
2
)
Long term  
incentives 
LTIP
3
£’000
Salary and fees 
£’000
T axable benefits
1
£’000
Cash bonus
2
£’000
Deferred
sharebonus
2
£’000
Pension 
allowance
4
 
£’000
Single total 
remuneration figure 
£’000
Executive directors
David Brown 2015 535 3 279 279 1,067 – 2,163
2014 523 5 383 383 666 – 1,960
Keith Down 2015 351 2 183 – 683 46 1,265
2014 335 4 245 245 426 44 1,299
1. T axable benefits
The taxable benefit for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director comprises family healthcare membership. 
2. Cash bonus and deferred share bonus (performance-related bonus)
The table below illustrates the components of the annual performance-related bonus award at maximum and actual payouts for business objectives set at the  
start of the year. The executive directors were awarded an overall bonus of 104.4% of salary out of a potential maximum bonus of 150%. As shown above, half  
of this bonus is payable in cash and half is awarded as deferred shares to be held for a period of three years. The full bonus is subject to clawback provisions.  
The Group Finance Director will not receive the deferred shares element of this bonus on account of his cessation of employment at the end of the calendar year.
Metric Performance Measure
Payout of maximum  
performance Actual payout 
Group operating profit Actual 2013/14 Profit before tax (post IAS 19) 65% 40.5%
Group cash flow Net debt after adding back restricted cash 10% 10.0%
Strategic KPIs See below 25% 19.1%
T otal 100% 69.6%
Group operating profit
The Group operating profit target for the 2014/15 financial year was as shown below, with payout on a sliding scale from the 2013/14 Group operating profit:
Measure T arget Payout (% of salary)
Actual 2014/15 Group operating profit Group Operating Profit £103.2m in 2013/14 0%
Group Operating Profit Budget  
of £113.8m in 2014/15 65%
Actual Group operating profit for the year ended 27 June 2015 was £114.7m. In accordance with the committee’s procedures, a formal end of year quality of  
profit and budget was undertaken. As a result, an adjustment was made to the Group operating profit to include the £4.9m impairment charge for performance 
related remuneration purposes. The actual Group operating profit used to determine performance related bonus was £109.8m resulting in a payout of 40.5% of 
salary, equivalent to 65% of the maximum payout under this measure. 
Cashflow
For Group cashflow (defined as net debt after adding back restricted cash), the target for the 2014/15 financial year was £250.3m. Actual net debt after adding  
back restricted cash was £244.7m (2014: £260.0m) resulting in the maximum payout of 10%. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 79
Strategic KPIs
For the 25% of performance-related bonus attributable to strategic KPIs, the following objectives were set for both executive directors:
• Progress towards the £100m bus operating profit target for 2015/16, evidenced by revenue growth of 3% on budget performance for 2014/15 and progress  
on cost efficiency plans leading to £9m cost reduction target by 2015/16
• Address any under performance in acquisitions from 2009 with a strategic view
• Explore growth opportunities in the bus division either though an acquisition or contract bidding
• Ensure operational performance is maintained at all train operating companies and continue to work collaboratively with Network Rail to improve their performance
• Ensure that the mobilisation process for the new rail franchise allows for a smooth transition to GTR. Deliver committed obligations for GTR, set up appropriate 
governance and recruit top team. Prepare for the assimilation of Southern in July 2015. Meet corporate plan targets
• Secure extensions to Southeastern and London Midland on the right terms. Bid for UK franchise contracts at Northern and TransPennine Express. Bid for 
international contracts
• As a consequence of GTR, strategically plan the incorporation of synergies in both rail and Group
• Ensure that the Group’s core values of trust and transparency and achieving the highest levels of corporate governance are maintained and recognised
• Ensure that Go-Ahead’s reputation is enhanced with key stakeholders and that the role that private operators can bring to the provision of public services  
is recognised
• Ensure that succession plans are in place for all directors across the businesses. Continue with people development plans including staff engagement across  
the Group
• Ensure customers are satisfied with our services. For Rail, measured through overall passenger satisfaction (National Rail Passenger Survey), target of an average 
of 80%. For Bus, as measured by passenger satisfaction levels from Passenger Focus’ target 90%
• Ensure that investor confidence in Go-Ahead is enhanced and that market expectations are managed and aligned
The committee reviewed in detail all objectives which had been set at the start of the financial year. Each objective, which had been individually weighted, was 
measured before the committee concluded that 19.1% of the 25% overall award had been achieved.
Health and safety target threshold
The annual performance related bonus includes an underpin that enables the committee to use its discretion to scale back the bonus earned should there  
be a major safety event or a deterioration in health and safety performance. The committee concluded that bonus payments should not be reduced. 
3. Vesting of 2012/13 L TIP award 
The table below summarises the performance conditions for the 2012/13 LTIP award and the actual performance achieved. This award was subject to  
performance conditions measured over three financial years ending with the end of the 2014/15 financial period.
As shown below, the adjusted EPS growth target (50% weighting) and relative TSR target (40% weighting) were fully achieved. The long term strategic target  
(10% weighting) was also achieved in full upon satisfying the following objectives:
• Improve the pre qualification submissions for preferred bidder status in our targeted franchises
• Ensure we had the highest probability of winning further rail franchises, in particular GTR, to replace the predicted loss of rail profits whilst fully understanding  
the ‘risk and reward’ mechanism in the new style franchises
• Reduce the requirement for rail profit from new franchises, by improving bus profits, through a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and cost efficiencies
% of EPS and  
TSR elements vesting
Compound annual  
growth in EPS
Relative TSR vs FTSE 250  
(excluding certain sectors)
Long term  
strategic targets
Weighting (% of award) – 50% 40% 10%
Below threshold 0% Less than RPI + 2% p.a. Below median –
Threshold 25% RPI + 2% p.a. Median –
Between threshold and maximum 25% to 100% RPI + 2% p.a. to RPI + 6% 
p.a.
Between median and upper 
quartile
–
Maximum 100% RPI + 6% p.a. or more At or above upper quartile –
Performance achieved Adjusted EPS of 150.8p. 
From a base of 141.9p this 
is equivalent to growth of 
RPI + 8.4% p.a.
31st out of 127 companies See commentary above
Actual % vesting – 50% 40% 10%
The values of the LTIP awards are shown in the executive directors’ remuneration table on page 78. These include the share value of the long term incentives and  
a cash value equivalent of the gross cumulative dividend payment which would have been payable between the date of award and the date the shares are acquired. 
For the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the share values amount to £970,823 and £621,324 respectively based on the average market 
share price in the last quarter of 2014/15 of £25.78. These values have been estimated as the awards will not actually vest until shortly after the 2015 AGM. The 
cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment equates to £96,216 for the Group Chief Executive and £61,578 for the Group Finance Director.
4. Pension allowance
The Group Finance Director only receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary. The Group Chief Executive does not receive any form  
of pension provision from the Group. 80 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
2014/15 L TIP AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 (AUDITED)
As reported in the annual report last year, LTIP awards were granted to the executive directors during the year ended 27 June 2015. These were structured  
as nil-cost options, which are exercisable at the end of a three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2014/15 financial period and ending  
with the 2016/17 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. The 2014/15 grant policy was to grant awards with a face value of 100%  
of salary as follows:
Executive director
Basis of  
award granted
Share price  
at grant date
Number of shares over
1
which award was granted
Face value of award
2
(£’000)
Vesting determined  
by performance over
David Brown 100% of salary £25.03 21,335 534 Three financial years  
ending on 1 July 2017
Keith Down 100% of salary £25.03 13,661 342
1 The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of £24.52, this being the average closing mid-market price of a Go-Ahead share during the four week period 
immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the Plan rules.
2 The face value of the award has been calculated based on the share price of £25.03 at date of grant.
The performance conditions attaching to the 2014/15 LTIP awards were as follows:
Payout  
(% of each element)
Compound annual  
growth in EPS
Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 
(excluding certain sectors)
Group operating  
company profit
Weighting (% of total award) – 30% 30% 40%
Below threshold 0% Less than RPI + 2% p.a. Below median Achievement of long term strategic targets, as 
assessed by the committee, is described below
Threshold 25% RPI + 2% p.a. Median
Between threshold and 
maximum
Between 25%  
and 100%
Between RPI + 2% p.a. 
and RPI + 8% p.a.
Between median and 
upper quartile
Maximum 100% RPI + 8% p.a. Upper quartile
The Group operating profit target applying to 40% of the LTIP award will be payable on a sliding scale between the threshold and maximum targets. No element  
of the award will vest unless Group operating profit has increased from the Group’s operating profit for the year ended 28 June 2014 by at least 25% over three 
financial years. At threshold, 20% will vest if operating profit measured in the year ending in June 2017 has grown by 25%. At maximum, 40% will vest if operating 
profit has grown by 50%. A sliding scale applies for growth between 25% and 50%.
The above targets would be adjusted should there be any changes to current accounting policies. Awards will continue to vest three years after grant, subject  
to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (AUDITED)
There were no payments made to former executive directors and no payments for loss of office were made during the year ended 27 June 2015. 
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (SIP)
During the year, executive directors participated in The Go-Ahead Group plc SIP on the same terms as other employees. The SIP is an HMRC approved plan  
open to all staff permanently employed by a participating company and who have completed at least six months’ continuous service at the date of application. 
Participants may contribute up to a maximum of £150 per month (or 10% of pre-tax salary if less) which the Trustee of the SIP uses to buy partnership shares  
on their behalf. Deductions are made from an employee’s gross income so no income tax or National Insurance will be payable provided the shares are held in 
trust for up to five years. 
SHARESAVE SCHEME
During the year, executive directors participated in The Go-Ahead Group Plc Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“Sharesave”), launched in February 2014.  
At this time, all permanent employees who had completed at least six months’ continuous service with a participating company were invited to make monthly 
savings of between £5 and £50 for three years. At the end of the savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or Go-Ahead Group shares  
at a 20% discount to the market price set at the date of invitation.
SOURCING OF SHARES AND DILUTION
Awards under all the Group’s share schemes are satisfied by market purchases of shares. Further details can be found in shareholder information  
on pages 153 to 154.
PENSION AND OTHER BENEFITS
The Group Chief Executive had no specific pension entitlement. The Group Finance Director receives a non-pensionable cash alternative to pension contributions 
of 13% of his salary.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES 
Fee levels for the non-executive directors were reviewed on 1 April 2015 and increased by 1.8%.
Fees 
From 1 Apr 2015 
£’000 p.a.
From 1 Apr 2014 
£’000 p.a.
Andrew Allner 172 169
Katherine Innes Ker
1
52 51
Nick Horler 47 46
Adrian Ewer
1
52 51 
1 Additional fees of £5,000 payable to Katherine Innes Ker and Adrian Ewer for chairing the remuneration and audit committees respectively. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 81
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 27 June 2015 and the prior year:
Single total remuneration figure 
£’000 p.a.
Andrew Allner 2015 170
2014 166
Katherine Innes Ker 2015 52
2014 50
Nick Horler 2015 46
2014 45
Adrian Ewer 2015 52
2014 50
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS 
SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS
The remuneration committee believes that the interests of the executive directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders over the long term. 
Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post-tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards until such time as they achieve a holding of  
100% of salary. Shares that count to this requirement are limited to shares beneficially held by the director, their spouses or dependent children. During the  
year, in consultation with major shareholders, the level of the guidelines was reviewed and from the 2015/16 year, the Group Chief Executive’s share ownership 
guidelines will increase to 150% of salary.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS (AUDITED)
Details of the interests of the executive directors in shares and long term incentive interests are set out in the table below, together with the extent to which each 
of the executive directors has complied with the guidelines as at 27 June 2015. At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 21,677 shares. Based on the 
closing share price on 27 June 2015, this equates to108% of base salary. The Group Finance Director beneficially held 13,322 shares, equating to 95% of base salary. 
The vesting of the 2012/13 LTIP awards and the 2012 deferred share bonus award in November 2015 would result in post tax indicative holdings of the Group 
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director increasing to 226% and 202% respectively. 
Legally owned
Shareholder 
requirement
Shareholding 
as a % 
of salary
1
Shareholder  
requirement 
met
DSBP awards subject  
to deferral conditions
LTIP awards subject to  
performance conditions
Sharesave  
options  
(without 
performance 
conditions)
Executive 
Director 27.06.15 28.06.14 27.06.15 Unvested
2
Vested Lapsed
Vested 
but not 
exercised Unvested
2
Vested Lapsed
Vested  
but not  
exercised
3
David 
Brown
21,677 6,586 100% 108% Yes 28,694 – – – 51,797 28,670 – 37,658 103 
Keith 
Down
4
13,322 3,639 100% 95% No 18,369 – – – 33,157 18,348 – 24,101 103
1 Shareholding as a % of salary includes only shares held beneficially by the director, their spouse or children. Unvested deferred shares or LTIP awards have not been included. Shareholding is based on the 
closing share price on 27 June 2015.
2 Excludes DSBP shares and LTIP awards which will be granted in November 2015 for the year ended 27 June 2015. The value of deferred share awards granted in respect of the year ended 27 June 2015  
is shown in the executive directors’ remuneration table on page 78.
3 Relates to the 2012/13 LTIP awards which have vested in respect of performance for the year ended 27 June 2015 and which will be exercised shortly after the 2015 AGM, in November 2015, the value  
of which is shown in the executive directors’ remuneration table on page 78.
4 In accordance with policy, 12,826 of the unvested DSBP awards for the Group Finance Director will lapse upon cessation of employment at the end of the calendar year. The remaining 5,543 will vest as 
normal in November 2015 having been held for a period of three years. The 33,157 unvested LTIP awards for the Group Finance Director will also lapse in full.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS (AUDITED)
Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement. The shareholdings of each non-executive director is as follows:
As at 27 June 2015 As at 28 June 2014
Andrew Allner 742 742
Katherine Innes Ker – –
Nick Horler – –
Adrian Ewer 138 140
There have been no changes in the current executive and non-executive directors’ interests in shares in the Group between the end of the financial year  
and 2 September 2015. 82 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION
The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s total remuneration between the financial years 28 June 2014 and 27 June 2015, 
compared to the average change for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2014 to 2015
Salary Benefits Bonus
Group Chief Executive 1.8 (40.0) (27.2)
Average employees 2.5 – 0.8
THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, compared to that of the previous year.
 
2014/15 
£’m
2013/14 
£’m % change
Dividends £36.7 £34.7 5.8
Overall expenditure on pay £1,079.6 £929.2 16.2
The Group has not made any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding 
the relative importance of spend on pay.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a director of the Group was materially interested and/or which were 
significant in relation to the Group’s business.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR) PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
The graph below shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index for the last six financial years to  
27 June 2015. In assessing the performance of the Group’s TSR, the Board believes the FTSE 250 index comparator group it has chosen represents an appropriate 
and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Group’s performance for this purpose. 
The Go-Ahead Group plc FTSE 250 Index Peer Group (average return)
300
250
200
150
100
27/06/2009 03/07/2010 02/07/2011 30/06/2012 29/06/2013 28/06/2014 27/06/2015
50
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (REBASED TO 100)
This graph shows the value by 27 June 2015 of £100 invested in The Go-Ahead Group plc on 27 June 2009 compared with the value of £100 invested in the  
FTSE 250 index and our peer group over the same period. The other points plotted are the same values at intervening financial year ends.
The table overleaf shows the total remuneration figure for the Group Chief Executive over the same six year period. The total remuneration figure includes the 
performance related bonus and LTIP awards (and the percentage of the maximum opportunity that these represent). Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 83
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION COMPARISON
Y ear Group Chief Executive
Single total  
figure of remuneration 
£’000
Annual performance related 
bonus 
(actual award v maximum 
opportunity)
Long term incentive vesting 
(vesting v maximum 
opportunity)
£’000 (and % vesting) £’000 (and % vesting)
2014/15 David Brown 2,163
1
£558 (69.6%) £1,067 (100.0%)
2013/14 David Brown 1,960
2
£766 (97.5%) £666 (80.0%)
2012/13 David Brown 942 £422 (55.3%) –
2011/12 David Brown 1,022 £513 (68.0%) –
2010/11 David Brown 251
3
£125 (100.0%) –
2010/11 Keith Ludeman 1,564 £530 (100.0%) –
2009/10 Keith Ludeman 1,349 £689 (100.0%) £73 (21.7%)
1 The single figure of total remuneration for 2014/15 includes the vesting of the 2012/13 LTIP award.
2 The single figure of total remuneration for 2013/14 includes the vesting of the 2011/12 LTIP award. David Brown was granted LTIP awards for the first time in October 2011 following his appointment  
in April 2011 and hence this is the first opportunity that LTIP awards have been eligible to vest.
3 Following his appointment in April 2011, David Brown was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year 2010/11.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR ENDING 2 JUL Y 2016
This policy will apply to any remuneration paid on or after the Group’s AGM on 22 October 2015.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ BASE SALARIES
The base salaries of the executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 April 2015 and are £541,800 and £380,000 for the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director respectively. These will remain unchanged until the annual salary review is undertaken on 1 April 2016. 
BENEFITS
The benefits for both executive directors will remain consistent with those detailed in the remuneration policy section on page 72.
PENSION
The current pension arrangements described on page 80 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
PERFORMANCE-RELATED BONUS
The performance-related bonus for 2015/16 will operate on a similar basis as in 2014/15 and will be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration  
policy section of this report in terms of the maximum bonus opportunity and performance conditions. The incumbent Group Finance Director will not be  
entitled to any pro-rata performance related bonus for 2015/16.
In the table below, we disclose the executive directors’ performance-related targets for the year ending 2 July 2016:
Metric Weighting (% of maximum bonus)
Group operating profit 65% see below
Group cashflow 10% see below
Strategic KPIs 25% see below
Group operating profit
The Group operating target for the 2015/16 financial year will be 2015/16 Corporate Plan operating profit budget with payout on a sliding scale from the final 
2014/15 operating profit.
Measure T arget Payout (% of salary)
Actual 2015/16 Group operating profit Group operating profit in 2014/15 0%
Group operating profit budget in 2015/16 65%
Cashflow
For Group cashflow, the target for the 2015/16 financial year will be adjusted net debt after adding back restricted cash in accordance with the Corporate Plan. 
For Group operating profit and cashflow metrics, the maximum bonus opportunity requires performance to be in line with the Group’s budget for 2015/16.  
The committee believes that to achieve budget, which is considered to be very stretching, would be a significant performance and deserve payment of  
maximum bonus. Group operating profit must exceed that in 2014/15 before any element of the Group operating profit measure can vest. Vesting will  
be on a straight line basis between these two points. Any bonus payable would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares and all bonus is subject  
to recovery and withholding provisions. 
Strategic KPIs
For strategic KPIs, the target for the 2015/16 financial year includes a number of non-financial strategic and personal objectives over the course of the year.  
These objectives reflect the individual roles of the executive directors in achieving the Group’s strategy and cover both bus and rail divisions and the Group  
as a whole. The individual targets include short term strategy, people and investors, in addition to personal objectives.
T argets will be stretching, and more information on the specific targets and performance against them will be provided retrospectively in next year’s remuneration 
report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at the time. 
A health and safety target threshold will continue to apply to the full bonus, with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments 
potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
Recovery and holding provisions will apply to the full performance-related bonus and the audit committee will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit  
and budget review in conjunction with the auditor. 84 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
L TIP AWARDS
Subject to approval at the 2015 AGM, LTIP awards from the 2015/16 financial year will be granted under the new LTIP . The incumbent Group Finance Director will 
not receive an award as he will leave the Group shortly after the awards will be granted. The new LTIP will have standard terms, allowing the grant of conditional 
awards, nil cost options and forfeitable shares. Dividend equivalents will be paid on vested shares up to the end of the holding period. The new LTIP will comply with 
the 5% and 10% in 10 years dilution limits and best practice with regard to leavers and on a change of control. Full details will be contained in the Notice of AGM.
LTIP awards granted in the 2015/16 financial year will continue to operate under the same EPS and TSR principles subject to the following changes:
• The EPS and TSR elements of the award will account for 40% each (previously 30% each)
• The EPS target and threshold have been raised and the amount of award gained at threshold reduced to reflect the impact of the GTR franchise and  
Southeastern direct award contract
• A customer satisfaction target of 20% split equally between rail and bus will replace the Group operating profit target
For the year commencing 28 June 2015, the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive will have a face value of 150% of salary. The performance measures and 
targets for awards to be made in 2015/16 are detailed below:
EPS Payout  
(% of element)
Compound annual  
growth in EPS
Payout 
(% of TSR element)
Relative TSR vs FTSE 250  
(excluding certain sectors)
Customer  
satisfaction targets
Weighting (% of total award) – 40% – 40% 20%
Below threshold 0% Less than RPI + 5% p.a. 0% Below median See below
Threshold 10% RPI + 5% p.a. 25% Median
Between threshold  
and maximum
Between 10%  
and 100%
Between RPI + 5% p.a.  
and RPI + 13% p.a.
Between 25%  
and 100%
Between median and  
upper quartile
Maximum 100% RPI + 13% p.a. 100% Upper quartile
The customer satisfaction target will be as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport Focus (formerly Passenger Focus) and published in  
the annual report. This is a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead. It is a strategic priority for the Group to provide high quality service and  
customer satisfaction is a critical measure of our performance. It influences our ability to retain franchises and to win new ones and ensuring management  
is focused on this strategic measure is critically important therefore as a driver of long term shareholder value. 
For the rail customer service targets, there has been a decline over the last three years from 82% in 2012 to 76% in 2015 in the blended Transport Focus  
National Rail Passenger Survey (“NRPS”) for the three train operating companies. GTR is a new franchise to the Group and was not included in these results 
before Spring 2015. 
The benchmark for the train operating companies will be the London and South East Sector NRPS score which consists of 12 franchises that serve the region  
and run into London. The threshold for the performance measure will be the current London and South East Sector NPRS of 78%. The target will be to increase  
it to 82% over the three year performance period.
For the bus customer service targets, the threshold will be to maintain the 2015 Bus National Passenger Survey (National Passenger Survey “NPS”) score  
of 90% which is already high and at an industry leading level. The target will be in increase the NPS score to 93% over the three year performance period. 
Payout (% of each element) Rail Customer Service T arget Bus Customer Service T arget
Weighting – 10% 10%
Below Threshold 0% Less than 78% Less than 90%
Threshold 10% 78% 90%
Between Threshold and Max Between 10% and 100% Between 78% and 82% Between 90% and 93%
Maximum 100% 82% 93%
There is an additional profit threshold for the customer service target which is that EPS growth over the three year period must be greater than RPI + 5%  
before any of the customer service element of award can vest. 
The above EPS targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these policies. Awards will continue to  
vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
We have taken the opportunity to bring our clawback provisions in line with best practice, by extending the recovery and withholding provisions to include  
both the performance-related bonus and LTIP .
Awards granted under the new LTIP will also be subject to an additional two-year holding period following the vesting of awards. During this period vested  
awards may not be sold (other than to pay any tax or NICs due on exercise). This will result in an overall five-year period before executives can realise the gain  
on their vested shares. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES
The non-executive directors’ fees were reviewed on 1 April 2015 as stated in the table on page 80. These will remain unchanged until the next annual fee review  
is undertaken on 1 April 2016. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 85
APPENDICES
OUTSTANDING LTIP AWARDS (AUDITED)
 
 Award date
Share price 
at the date of 
award
At  
28 June 2014
Granted  
during the year
Exercised  
during the year
Lapsed  
during the year
Balance at  
27 June 2015
Awards that vested in 2014/15  
and exercised in 2015/16
Balance post 
exercise in 
2014/15
No. No. No. No. No. Vested No. Lapsed No.
David Brown 05-Nov-14 £25.03 21,335 21,335 21,335
30-Oct-13 £16.84 30,462 30,462 30,462
05-Nov-12 £13.06 37,658 37,658 37,658 – –
51,797
Keith Down 05-Nov-14 £25.03 13,661 13,661 13,661
30-Oct-13
*
£16.84 19,496 19,496 19,496
05-Nov-12
*
£13.06 24,101 24,101 24,101 – –
33,157
* The LTIP awards granted to the Group Finance Director in 2013 and 2014 will lapse upon cessation of employment.
NOVEMBER 2014 AWARDS 
The performance conditions attaching to the November 2014 awards are measured over the three financial years ending with the 2016/17 financial period.  
Details of the performance conditions relating to this award can be found on page 80.
OCTOBER 2013 AWARDS 
The performance conditions attaching to the October 2013 awards are measured over the three financial years ending with the 2015/16 financial period.  
Details of the performance conditions relating to this award can be found on page 71 of the 2013 annual report.
NOVEMBER 2012 AWARDS
Details of the performance targets to which the 2012 LTIP award relates together with actual vesting against those targets are set out on page 79.
For and on behalf of the Board
Katherine Innes Ker,
Remuneration Committee Chair
2 September 2015 86 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report and audited financial statements  
for the year ended 27 June 2015. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under 
DTR4. Certain information that fulfils the requirements of this report can be 
found elsewhere in this document and is referred to below. This information is 
incorporated into this directors’ report by reference.
DIRECTORS 
A full list of the individuals who were directors of the Group during the  
financial year ended 27 June 2015 is set out below:
Andrew Allner, David Brown, Keith Down, Katherine Innes Ker, Nick Horler  
and Adrian Ewer.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Established within the Group is a procedure for managing and monitoring 
conflicts of interests for directors. Full details of this procedure are set out  
in the corporate governance report on page 57.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
Details of qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of  
the Group’s directors can be found in the corporate governance report  
on page 59.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain 
parts of the corporate governance report to be outlined in this directors’ 
report. This information is laid out in the corporate governance report, on  
pages 52 to 85.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES
All information relating to the Group’s capital structure, rights attaching to 
shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Group’s own shares and other 
shareholder information is shown on pages 153 to 154 and incorporated into 
this directors’ report by reference.
DIVIDENDS
Our dividend policy is for progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining 
dividend cover of approximately two times adjusted earnings, on a pre 
IAS19 (revised) basis, through the economic cycle. Details of the proposed 
final dividend payment for the year ended 27 June 2015 are shown on the 
consolidated income statement on page 91 of the report.
POLITICAL DONATIONS AND EXPENDITURE
It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations and accordingly no  
such payments were made in the year (2014: £nil). Additionally, the Group  
did not incur any political expenditure as defined in the Companies Act 2006 
(2014: £nil).
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There are no other post balance sheet events.
MATERIAL INCLUDED IN THE STRATEGIC REPORT
The strategic report on pages 2 to 51 includes information on the following matters 
that would otherwise be required to be presented in the directors’ report;
• future developments in the business; and 
• greenhouse gas emissions
EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES
Our disclosures relating to the diversity and equal opportunities, the number  
of women in senior management roles, employee relations and policies  
are included in the ‘People’ section on pages 27 to 29. Employees are kept 
informed of the performance and strategy of the Group through regular 
interactive forums by the Group Chief Executive. Established share schemes 
encourage and support employees’ involvement in the performance of the 
Group, through direct ownership. There have been no significant changes to  
our policies over the year.
PENSION 
The final salary section of the Group’s pension plan closed to future accrual 
with effect from 1 April 2014. Existing members were offered the opportunity 
to join the money purchase section instead. The money purchase section of the 
Group’s pension plan was closed to new employees with effect from 1 April 
2013 but existing members continue to contribute at their current contribution 
levels. A new ‘workplace savings section’ was set up with effect from 1 April 
2013 for the purposes of auto-enrolment. This provides a default investment 
option and at least the minimum level of contributions as required under 
Government regulations.
SHARE SCHEMES
EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEMES
At the date of this report, Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, as 
Trustee of The Go-Ahead Group plc Employee Trust, holds 0.1% of the issued 
share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit of the 
executive directors of the Group under the LTIP and DSBP . The voting rights  
in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are 
waived while the shares are held by the Trustee.
Vesting of awards under the LTIP and DSBP for the executive directors is 
satisfied by market purchases of shares which are held in Trust.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN
The Company operated a Share Incentive Plan during the year under review, 
enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the Group. In order to 
preserve certain tax benefits, these shares are held in a trust by EES Corporate 
Trustees Limited for participating employees. Whilst these shares are held in 
trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee 
or the employees for whom they are held. As at the date of this report, 0.8% 
of the issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held by EES 
Corporate Trustees Limited. In the event of an offer being made to acquire 
these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES Corporate Trustees 
Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME 
The Company also operates a Save as you earn scheme known as  
The Go-Ahead Group Plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 
(“Sharesave”), the last launch was in February 2014. Under Sharesave,  
all permanent employees who have completed at least six months’  
continuous service with a participating company are invited to make  
monthly savings of between £5 and £50 for three years. At the end  
of the savings term, participants have the choice of their money back,  
or to purchase Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount to the  
market price set at the date of invitation. Go v erna nce Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 87
AUDITOR
Following an audit tendering process Ernst & Y oung LLP will resign as auditors 
with effect from the date of the next Annual General Meeting; a resolution 
to appoint Deloitte LLP will be put to the members at that Annual General 
Meeting. A resolution will also be proposed that the directors be authorised  
to fix the remuneration of the auditor.
GOING CONCERN 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic report. The 
financial position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the financial review on pages 48 to 50. In addition 
[note 22] to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; 
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
Cash generation from the Group’s bus and rail operations was excellent and 
the balance sheet remains strong. Core financing is provided by a £200m 
sterling bond securing financing to September 2017 and committed bank 
facilities of £280.0m originally to July 2019, but subsequent to the year end,  
has been extended to July 2020. In July 2014 the £280m facility replaced a 
£275.5m February 2016 facility. The directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain 
economic outlook.
The directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic 
conditions, the Group’s ability to continue as a ‘going concern’. The directors 
confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the ‘going concern’ basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group 
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and 
regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare Group financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the directors are required to 
prepare Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union. Detailed below are statements made by the directors in relation to their 
responsibilities, disclosure of information to the Group’s auditors, going concern 
and management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS
Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit  
or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors are required to:
• present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows  
of the Group;
• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting 
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply  
them consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that  
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS as adopted by the European Union is insufficient  
to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions,  
other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and  
financial performance; 
• state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, 
and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of  
the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic report,  
directors’ report, including the directors’ remuneration report and the 
corporate governance report, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006  
and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules  
and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Group’s corporate website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT UNDER  
THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES
The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and  
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of  
the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole; and
• The strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT UNDER THE UK CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE CODE
• The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary  
for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model  
and strategy.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware,  
there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 418(3) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the Group’s auditor is unaware and the 
directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make  
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish  
that the Group’s auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board
Carolyn Ferguson,
Group Company Secretary
2 September 2015 88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF  
THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC  
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion the financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at  
27 June 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
OVERVIEW 
Materiality Overall Group materiality of £4.38 million 5%  
of profit before exceptional items and tax  
Audit scope An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the Group financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance  
that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-
level controls of the Group which assisted us in 
identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement 
due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in 
determining the most appropriate audit strategy, 
including the scope of procedures to be performed 
on the components of the Group. 
We performed an audit of the complete financial 
information of nine components and audit procedures 
on specific balances, where we consider the risk  
of material misstatement to be higher, for a further 
eight components. These seventeen reporting 
components account for 100 per cent of the  
Group’s revenue and 100 per cent of the  
Group’s profit before exceptional items and tax. 
The nine reporting components where we performed 
an audit of the complete financial information account 
for 97.2 per cent of the Group’s revenue and 97.5  
per cent of the Group’s profit before exceptional  
items and tax 
Areas of focus Revenue recognition 
Non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions
Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges 
Accounting for the Group’s pension liabilities  
Carrying value of goodwill 
What has changed Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included 
one additional new full scope reporting component 
being the Group’s new rail franchise Govia 
Thameslink Railway Limited. 
In 2014, we did not visit or perform any detailed 
testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies. 
In the current year we have visited these locations 
and performed specific procedures relating to the risk 
of material misstatement in respect of revenue.  
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY  
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our 
audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the 
financial statements. For the purposes of determining whether the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as  
the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial 
statements, would be changed or influenced. We also determine a level  
of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing 
needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the 
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole. 
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude  
of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the 
financial statements as a whole. We have used an earnings based measure  
as our basis of materiality consistent with how performance is measured for 
the Group. We determined materiality for the Group to be £4.38 million 
(2014: £3.95 million), which is 5 per cent of profit before exceptional items 
and tax (being the profit before tax of £78.7 million plus the exceptional 
items charge of £8.8 million). We excluded exceptional items on the basis 
that these are infrequent in occurrence and are not indicative of the 
underlying performance of the Group. We also note that market and analyst 
commentary on the performance of the Group uses an equivalent measure. 
We therefore, considered profit before exceptional items and tax to be  
the most relevant performance metric on which to base our materiality 
calculation. This provided the basis for determining the nature, timing  
and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk  
of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of 
further audit procedures. 
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of  
the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement is that overall 
performance materiality for the Group should be 50 per cent of materiality, 
namely £2.19 million. Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure 
that, together with qualitative considerations, total detected and undetected 
audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality of £4.38 million for 
the financial statements as a whole.  
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage  
of our total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for  
each component is based on the relative size of the component and our  
view of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year  
the range of performance materiality allocated to components was  
£0.44 million to £1.75 million (2014: £0.39 million to £1.54 million). 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of  
£0.2 million. We also agreed to report differences below those thresholds 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We  
evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both quantitative  
measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group 
financial statements, we selected seventeen (2014: eleven) components which 
represent the business units within the Group’s reportable segments and 
account for 100 per cent of the Group’s revenue and 100 per cent of the 
Group’s profit before exceptional items and tax (of which 97.2% and 97.5% 
of these metrics were covered by full scope components). Nine (2014: eight) 
of these components were subject to a full audit and eight (2014: three)  
were subject to audits of specific account balances based on our judgement 
of risk and materiality. The additional component subject to a full audit, 
compared to the prior year, was the Group’s new rail franchise Govia 
Thameslink Railway Limited. In 2014, we did not visit or perform any  
detailed testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies. In the current 
year we have visited these locations and performed specific procedures 
relating to the risk of material misstatement in respect of revenue.   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 89
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF  
THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC  
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion the financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at  
27 June 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
OVERVIEW 
Materiality Overall Group materiality of £4.38 million 5%  
of profit before exceptional items and tax  
Audit scope An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the Group financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance  
that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-
level controls of the Group which assisted us in 
identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement 
due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in 
determining the most appropriate audit strategy, 
including the scope of procedures to be performed 
on the components of the Group. 
We performed an audit of the complete financial 
information of nine components and audit procedures 
on specific balances, where we consider the risk  
of material misstatement to be higher, for a further 
eight components. These seventeen reporting 
components account for 100 per cent of the  
Group’s revenue and 100 per cent of the  
Group’s profit before exceptional items and tax. 
The nine reporting components where we performed 
an audit of the complete financial information account 
for 97.2 per cent of the Group’s revenue and 97.5  
per cent of the Group’s profit before exceptional  
items and tax 
Areas of focus Revenue recognition 
Non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions
Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges 
Accounting for the Group’s pension liabilities  
Carrying value of goodwill 
What has changed Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included 
one additional new full scope reporting component 
being the Group’s new rail franchise Govia 
Thameslink Railway Limited. 
In 2014, we did not visit or perform any detailed 
testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies. 
In the current year we have visited these locations 
and performed specific procedures relating to the risk 
of material misstatement in respect of revenue.  
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY  
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our 
audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the 
financial statements. For the purposes of determining whether the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as  
the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial 
statements, would be changed or influenced. We also determine a level  
of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing 
needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the 
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole. 
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude  
of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the 
financial statements as a whole. We have used an earnings based measure  
as our basis of materiality consistent with how performance is measured for 
the Group. We determined materiality for the Group to be £4.38 million 
(2014: £3.95 million), which is 5 per cent of profit before exceptional items 
and tax (being the profit before tax of £78.7 million plus the exceptional 
items charge of £8.8 million). We excluded exceptional items on the basis 
that these are infrequent in occurrence and are not indicative of the 
underlying performance of the Group. We also note that market and analyst 
commentary on the performance of the Group uses an equivalent measure. 
We therefore, considered profit before exceptional items and tax to be  
the most relevant performance metric on which to base our materiality 
calculation. This provided the basis for determining the nature, timing  
and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk  
of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of 
further audit procedures. 
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of  
the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement is that overall 
performance materiality for the Group should be 50 per cent of materiality, 
namely £2.19 million. Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure 
that, together with qualitative considerations, total detected and undetected 
audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality of £4.38 million for 
the financial statements as a whole.  
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage  
of our total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for  
each component is based on the relative size of the component and our  
view of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year  
the range of performance materiality allocated to components was  
£0.44 million to £1.75 million (2014: £0.39 million to £1.54 million). 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of  
£0.2 million. We also agreed to report differences below those thresholds 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We  
evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both quantitative  
measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group 
financial statements, we selected seventeen (2014: eleven) components which 
represent the business units within the Group’s reportable segments and 
account for 100 per cent of the Group’s revenue and 100 per cent of the 
Group’s profit before exceptional items and tax (of which 97.2% and 97.5% 
of these metrics were covered by full scope components). Nine (2014: eight) 
of these components were subject to a full audit and eight (2014: three)  
were subject to audits of specific account balances based on our judgement 
of risk and materiality. The additional component subject to a full audit, 
compared to the prior year, was the Group’s new rail franchise Govia 
Thameslink Railway Limited. In 2014, we did not visit or perform any  
detailed testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies. In the current 
year we have visited these locations and performed specific procedures 
relating to the risk of material misstatement in respect of revenue.  
The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team 
participated in the execution of the audits of ten of the full scope and specific 
scope components, as well as Group-wide areas, in accordance with our 
assessment of risk. The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the 
Group audit team also attended meetings with management and engaged 
with the audit team on planning and execution of our work at the other two 
components, including reviewing key working papers. In respect of the risks 
described below, audit procedures in respect of the estimation of provisions 
for uninsured claims, accounting for pension liabilities and the testing of the 
carrying value of goodwill were completed by the Group team, overseen  
by the Senior Statutory Auditor. In respect of the other risks: revenue 
recognition, non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions (all rail 
operating companies were full scope components) and provisions for 
dilapidations (all balances were covered in our scope allocation), the  
Senior Statutory Auditor had oversight of our audit response across the 
components, including reviewing the results of the audit testing and  
discussing the risks with the component teams. 
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL  
MISSTATEMENT AND OUR AUDIT RESPONSE 
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the 
overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing  
the efforts of the engagement team. For each risk identified, we have 
documented our response and audit procedures below: 
 
Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures 
Revenue recognition (as described in notes 2 and 4 of the financial 
statements) 
Market expectations and profit based targets may place pressure on 
Management to distort revenue recognition, this therefore increases the risk of 
material misstatement in respect to measurement and occurrence of revenue. 
This may result in overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in meeting 
current or future targets or expectations.  
Whilst a large proportion of the revenue recorded is derived from system 
generated reports on ticket sales and cash settlements, adjustments are  
also required to appropriately accrue or defer revenue for: 
• advance sales of tickets and season tickets (both rail and bus) 
• concessionary fare income (bus) 
• performance related revenue from Transport for London (bus) 
• income allocations due for rail tickets  
The revenue relating to the rail operating companies is also governed by 
complex franchise arrangements with mechanisms in place to determine 
revenue support or revenue share depending on performance outcomes 
relative to original forecasts at the start of the franchise. This is further  
discussed below in our risk relating to non-compliance with franchise terms  
and conditions. 
• We understood the processes used to record the different income streams 
of the Group, in particular identifying the points at which manual adjustments 
were made to system and third party generated information, in order to test 
the nature, appropriateness and completeness of manual adjustments to 
reflect the accrual or deferral of revenue.  
• We agreed routine automated revenue to cash settlements including  
those generated through the Rail Settlement Plan. 
• We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied 
with IFRS. 
• We examined management’s underlying assumptions and methodology  
used to calculate manual adjustments to revenue relating to accrued and 
deferred income, comparing to post year end receipt (where applicable), 
passenger numbers and latest correspondence with the relevant authorities. 
We also compared the assumptions and methodology used to those used 
in the prior year to test whether a consistent approach had been utilised, 
• For material items we re-performed the calculation to confirm the accuracy 
of the accrued and deferred income recorded by management. 
• We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order  
to identify material adjustments made to revenue and test the risk of  
fraud arising from management override of controls. 
Non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions (as described on  
page 64 of the Audit Committee Report)  
This specifically relates to the four rail operating companies of the Group.  
Each franchise is governed by an individual franchise agreement setting out 
arrangements covering entitlement to revenue, costs and performance 
conditions.  
Performance conditions are significant and need to be monitored to ensure 
compliance. Issues with non-compliance can result in penalties or the 
requirement to fulfil certain obligations which would create a risk over  
the completeness of costs and liabilities.  
These franchise agreements are complex and result in different arrangements 
in respect of Department for Transport funding of rail operations. For example 
in respect of: 
• subsidies for specific activities required under the franchise agreement 
• revenue support and revenue share arrangements dependent on  
passenger volumes 
• profit share arrangements 
• agency arrangements in respect of rail ticket income at GTR 
Due to the complexity, there is a risk that the financial statements do not 
appropriately reflect the related revenue and cost of these items in terms  
of completeness, measurement and occurrence. 
The franchise agreements also set out terms in respect of maintenance  
of infrastructure, this matter is addressed in the risk relating to estimation  
of provisions for liabilities and charges 
• We tested the Group’s process for identifying and monitoring compliance 
with the requirements of the franchise agreements and related bid models, 
which have a financial consequence. This included discussion with the 
compliance team at each of the train operating companies and reviewing 
correspondence with the Department for Transport for evidence of 
additional liabilities requiring recognition, or the resolution of issues for  
which a liability had previously been recognised.  
• We obtained information on changes in agreements during the year  
and tested whether the financial impact of such changes had been 
appropriately reflected in the financial statements. 
• We re-assessed matters brought forward from prior years to consider  
the appropriateness of related accruals, provisions and disclosures.  
• We assessed whether any items that were recorded in the income 
statement warranted separate disclosure as exceptional items because  
of their size or nature. 
• We considered whether Department for Transport funding had been 
appropriately accounted for, in accordance with IFRS, in the context of  
each individual franchise agreement. 
• We tested the estimates used in determining the valuation and timing  
of revenue and cost recognition, considering whether the conditions  
for recognition of related assets and liabilities had been met under IFRS.  
 
   90 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF  
THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED 
 
 
Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures 
Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges (as described on page 64 
of the Audit Committee Report and in note 24 of the financial statements)  
The Group’s provisions are based on management’s best estimate of  
outcomes using assumptions that require judgement, because of the high level 
of judgement the financial statement balance is more at risk of manipulation or 
error. The highest risks relate to completeness and valuation of the liabilities 
which could be understated to enhance the results of the Group. 
Provisions are made for: 
• dilapidation commitments under lease handback conditions for property,  
bus and rolling stock fleet, depots and stations £60.1m 
• uninsured claims in respect of transport incidents £41.3 million 
• We understood the level of internal and external expert involvement used in 
estimating liabilities. External experts are utilised by management to assess 
dilapidation provisions for the train operating companies and to assess 
notified uninsured claims. Our testing included understanding the terms  
of reference of those external experts, their competence and objectivity. 
• For dilapidations liabilities, we obtained the contract documentation for 
maintenance of rolling stock, stations and depots, to assess the relevant 
terms and conditions and consider whether these contracts gave rise to  
a liability. Where previously provided amounts were re-estimated we 
obtained evidence for changes including details of contract amendments. 
Where no movement occurred, we considered whether the assumptions 
used previously to estimate the liability remain reasonable. 
• For uninsured claims, we utilised information on claims over the past seven 
years to assess trends in settlement values in terms of growth from original 
assessed liability and value of settlement. 
• For both dilapidation liabilities and uninsured claims, we obtained  
information on settlements made in the year of previously provided  
liabilities, to understand how these compared with the quantification 
previously recorded and to assess the quality of estimates made by 
management and their independent experts.  
• We met with in-house legal counsel to obtain up to date information  
on additional claims or disputes. We reviewed board and subcommittee 
minutes for evidence of the existence of further liabilities and external  
legal correspondence for the existence of any further contractual issues. 
• We assessed whether each of the liabilities were appropriately classified 
between accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities against the recognition 
and measurement criteria of IFRS.  
• For those items classified as provisions, we assessed whether appropriate 
disclosure had been given in the financial statement as required by IFRS. 
• We assessed whether any items that were recorded in the income 
statement warranted separate disclosure as exceptional items because  
of their size or nature. 
Accounting for the Group’s pension liabilities (as described on page 64 of  
the Audit Committee Report and in note 27 of the financial statements)  
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme (which is closed to  
new entrants and future accrual) and its train operating companies participate 
in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.  
The liabilities recorded in respect of these defined benefit schemes are sensitive 
to long-term assumptions, small changes in these assumptions can result in 
material fluctuations in amounts recorded in the financial statements. For 
example the discount rate could be overstated in order to reduce the pension 
liability shown in the balance sheet and increase the net assets of the Group. 
• We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider an 
appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the calculation of 
the pension liabilities being discount rate, price inflation, salary increases and 
mortality in retirement.  
• We also utilised our own actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of 
the methodology used by management’s actuaries to calculate the liabilities 
for the pension schemes. 
• We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries, to source data 
held by the pension scheme administrators 
• We reviewed the adequacy of pension disclosures provided in the financial 
statements and compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised. 
Carrying value of goodwill (as described on page 64 of the Audit  
Committee Report and in note 13 of the financial statements)  
The value of goodwill is £75.9 million and relates to acquisitions of bus 
operating companies. The recoverable value is sensitive to changes in 
assumptions over future business performance by each of the relevant 
operating companies and discount rates. The Group’s annual assessment  
of the recoverable value requires judgement as to the future cash flow 
projections and the discount rate to be used. Cash flow projections may  
be overstated and the discount rate understated in order to provide a 
calculation of the recoverable value in excess of the carrying value, so  
that no impairment is recorded. 
• We evaluated the cash flow forecasts and key assumptions, agreeing 
assumptions made to supporting evidence, such as corporate plans and 
current performance 
• We compared the latest plans with prior year plans and assessed changes  
in these plans over time and the historic accuracy of management’s forecasts 
as an indicator of the reliability of current forecasts 
• We performance sensitivity analysis over data including growth rates, 
forecast cashflows in respect of costs and revenue 
• We audited the discount rate calculation applied, using our internal valuation 
experts to assist in our review of whether management’s assumptions are 
within an acceptable range based on comparative market data 
• We confirmed the clerical accuracy of the models 
• We assessed whether disclosures made are in accordance with IFRS 
 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 91
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED 
We have audited the financial statements of the Go-Ahead Group plc for  
the year ended 27 June 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Cashflow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation  
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,  
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed.  
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS  
AND AUDITOR 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out 
on page 87, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY  
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006  
In our opinion: 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report  
for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements. 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT  
BY EXCEPTION  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, information in the annual report is:  
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or  
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing  
our audit; or  
• is otherwise misleading.  
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider 
should have been disclosed.  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require  
for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 87, in relation to going  
concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to  
the company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the UK  
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
OTHER MATTER  
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements  
of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration report that is described as  
having been audited. 
 
 
 
Kathryn Barrow (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London 
2 September 2015 
 
Notes: 
1. The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc web site is the responsibility  
of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that 
may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on  
the website. 
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF  
THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED 
 
 
Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures 
Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges (as described on page 64 
of the Audit Committee Report and in note 24 of the financial statements)  
The Group’s provisions are based on management’s best estimate of  
outcomes using assumptions that require judgement, because of the high level 
of judgement the financial statement balance is more at risk of manipulation or 
error. The highest risks relate to completeness and valuation of the liabilities 
which could be understated to enhance the results of the Group. 
Provisions are made for: 
• dilapidation commitments under lease handback conditions for property,  
bus and rolling stock fleet, depots and stations £60.1m 
• uninsured claims in respect of transport incidents £41.3 million 
• We understood the level of internal and external expert involvement used in 
estimating liabilities. External experts are utilised by management to assess 
dilapidation provisions for the train operating companies and to assess 
notified uninsured claims. Our testing included understanding the terms  
of reference of those external experts, their competence and objectivity. 
• For dilapidations liabilities, we obtained the contract documentation for 
maintenance of rolling stock, stations and depots, to assess the relevant 
terms and conditions and consider whether these contracts gave rise to  
a liability. Where previously provided amounts were re-estimated we 
obtained evidence for changes including details of contract amendments. 
Where no movement occurred, we considered whether the assumptions 
used previously to estimate the liability remain reasonable. 
• For uninsured claims, we utilised information on claims over the past seven 
years to assess trends in settlement values in terms of growth from original 
assessed liability and value of settlement. 
• For both dilapidation liabilities and uninsured claims, we obtained  
information on settlements made in the year of previously provided  
liabilities, to understand how these compared with the quantification 
previously recorded and to assess the quality of estimates made by 
management and their independent experts.  
• We met with in-house legal counsel to obtain up to date information  
on additional claims or disputes. We reviewed board and subcommittee 
minutes for evidence of the existence of further liabilities and external  
legal correspondence for the existence of any further contractual issues. 
• We assessed whether each of the liabilities were appropriately classified 
between accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities against the recognition 
and measurement criteria of IFRS.  
• For those items classified as provisions, we assessed whether appropriate 
disclosure had been given in the financial statement as required by IFRS. 
• We assessed whether any items that were recorded in the income 
statement warranted separate disclosure as exceptional items because  
of their size or nature. 
Accounting for the Group’s pension liabilities (as described on page 64 of  
the Audit Committee Report and in note 27 of the financial statements)  
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme (which is closed to  
new entrants and future accrual) and its train operating companies participate 
in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.  
The liabilities recorded in respect of these defined benefit schemes are sensitive 
to long-term assumptions, small changes in these assumptions can result in 
material fluctuations in amounts recorded in the financial statements. For 
example the discount rate could be overstated in order to reduce the pension 
liability shown in the balance sheet and increase the net assets of the Group. 
• We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider an 
appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the calculation of 
the pension liabilities being discount rate, price inflation, salary increases and 
mortality in retirement.  
• We also utilised our own actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of 
the methodology used by management’s actuaries to calculate the liabilities 
for the pension schemes. 
• We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries, to source data 
held by the pension scheme administrators 
• We reviewed the adequacy of pension disclosures provided in the financial 
statements and compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised. 
Carrying value of goodwill (as described on page 64 of the Audit  
Committee Report and in note 13 of the financial statements)  
The value of goodwill is £75.9 million and relates to acquisitions of bus 
operating companies. The recoverable value is sensitive to changes in 
assumptions over future business performance by each of the relevant 
operating companies and discount rates. The Group’s annual assessment  
of the recoverable value requires judgement as to the future cash flow 
projections and the discount rate to be used. Cash flow projections may  
be overstated and the discount rate understated in order to provide a 
calculation of the recoverable value in excess of the carrying value, so  
that no impairment is recorded. 
• We evaluated the cash flow forecasts and key assumptions, agreeing 
assumptions made to supporting evidence, such as corporate plans and 
current performance 
• We compared the latest plans with prior year plans and assessed changes  
in these plans over time and the historic accuracy of management’s forecasts 
as an indicator of the reliability of current forecasts 
• We performance sensitivity analysis over data including growth rates, 
forecast cashflows in respect of costs and revenue 
• We audited the discount rate calculation applied, using our internal valuation 
experts to assist in our review of whether management’s assumptions are 
within an acceptable range based on comparative market data 
• We confirmed the clerical accuracy of the models 
• We assessed whether disclosures made are in accordance with IFRS 
 
   92 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
Notes 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Group revenue 4 3,215.2 2,702.4
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items) 5 (3,100.5) (2,599.2)
Group operating profit (before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items)  114.7 103.2
Intangible asset amortisation and goodwill impairment 13 (9.1) (5.8)
Exceptional items (before taxation) 7 (8.8) 12.1
Group operating profit  96.8 109.5
Finance revenue 8 2.4 1.5
Finance costs 8 (20.5) (19.8)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation  78.7 91.2
Tax expense 9 (19.4) (13.6)
Profit for the year from continuing operations  59.3 77.6
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  52.2 70.3
Non-controlling interests  7.1 7.3
  59.3 77.6
Earnings per share   
– basic  10 121.6p 164.0p
– diluted 10 119.5p 162.4p
– adjusted basic 10 150.8p 148.6p
– adjusted diluted 10 148.2p 147.1p
  
Dividends paid (pence per share) 11 85.6p 81.0p
Final dividend proposed (pence per share) 11 63.4p 59.0p Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 93
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
Notes 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Group revenue 4 3,215.2 2,702.4
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items) 5 (3,100.5) (2,599.2)
Group operating profit (before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items)  114.7 103.2
Intangible asset amortisation and goodwill impairment 13 (9.1) (5.8)
Exceptional items (before taxation) 7 (8.8) 12.1
Group operating profit  96.8 109.5
Finance revenue 8 2.4 1.5
Finance costs 8 (20.5) (19.8)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation  78.7 91.2
Tax expense 9 (19.4) (13.6)
Profit for the year from continuing operations  59.3 77.6
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  52.2 70.3
Non-controlling interests  7.1 7.3
  59.3 77.6
Earnings per share   
– basic  10 121.6p 164.0p
– diluted 10 119.5p 162.4p
– adjusted basic 10 150.8p 148.6p
– adjusted diluted 10 148.2p 147.1p
  
Dividends paid (pence per share) 11 85.6p 81.0p
Final dividend proposed (pence per share) 11 63.4p 59.0p
 
THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT INCLUDES THE MAJORITY OF OUR INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR THE YEAR  
WITH THE REMAINDER RECORDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Highlights of the movements in the year are set out below: 
REVENUE 
Revenue increased by 19.0% to £3,215.2m (2014: £2,702.4m). The rail operations comprised 74.6% of the total revenue and grew by 26.1% during the year  
to £2,397.4m primarily as a result of GTR taking over operation of the First Capital Connect franchise in the year. Regional bus comprised 11.2% of revenue, 
growing by 2.6% to £359.9m, and London bus comprised the remaining 14.2%, growing by 1.8% to £457.9m. Divisional performance is shown in note 3. 
OPERATING PROFIT 
Overall, the operating profit increased 11.1% from £103.2m to £114.7m with improved profitability in both rail and regional bus. The rail business improved 
margins from 1.0% to 1.1%, the regional bus margins improved from 11.9% to 13.0% and London bus decreased marginally from 9.3% to 9.2%. Rail profitability 
is underpinned by cost controls and contract management benefits. Cost control is also a focus of the bus divisions. 
INTANGIBLE ASSET AMORTISATION AND GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT 
The intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment charge for the year is £9.1m (2014: £5.8m), of which £4.2m represents the non-cash cost of amortising 
software costs, franchise bid costs and customer contracts, and £4.9m relates to the impairment of goodwill in the Go East Anglia bus operations. 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group incurred restructuring costs in its GTR franchise which brings Thameslink and Greater Northern together with 
Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure. In the year ended 28 June 2014 the exceptional credit related primarily to the closure of  
the defined benefit pension scheme to future accruals. 
FINANCE COSTS 
Overall net finance costs are consistent year on year. 
TAX EXPENSE 
The tax expense increased from £13.6m in 2014 to £19.4m. The 2015 effective rate is 24.7%. The underlying rate, excluding goodwill impairment of £4.9m,  
is 23.2%. The 2014 expense is after crediting £6.8m of deferred tax benefit that resulted from an enacted reduction in UK tax rates as outlined in note 9.  
The effective rate of tax for 2014 was 14.9%; excluding the effect of the deferred tax adjustment the effective rate would have been 22.4%. In both years the 
underlying rate is higher than the statutory rate due to non-tax deductible costs such as depreciation on industrial buildings. 
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adjusting for amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items to the extent that they impact earnings 
attributable to equity shareholders. Adjusted earnings per share is as shown in note 10 and has increased to 150.8p from 148.6p, an increase of 1.5%, largely 
reflecting increased profit before taxation offset by increased taxation rates. 
  94 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
 Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year  59.3 77.6
  
Other comprehensive income/(losses)  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 27 24.6 (14.5)
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 9  (4.9) 1.5
  19.7 (13.0)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges  (36.0) (5.2)
Losses on cashflow hedges taken to income statement – operating costs  16.2 2.1
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 9 4.0 0.5
 (15.8) (2.6)
  
Other comprehensive gains/(losses) for the year, net of tax  3.9 (15.6)
  
Total comprehensive income for the year  63.2 62.0
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  49.4 51.0
Non-controlling interests  13.8 11.0
  63.2 62.0
THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME RECORDS ALL OF THE INCOME AND LOSSES GENERATED  
FOR THE YEAR 
Highlights of the movements in the year are set out below: 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
The profit for the year after taxation is £59.3m and includes amounts attributable to equity shareholders and non-controlling interests. 
REMEASUREMENT OF DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS 
As disclosed in note 27 the remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans were £24.6m, which consisted of rail pension plans showing remeasurement 
gains of £23.9m and bus pension plans showing remeasurement gains of £0.7m. 
UNREALISED LOSSES ON CASHFLOW HEDGES 
The Group manages its exposure to the future cost of diesel through a programme of hedging. At each period end the derivatives used are marked  
to a market price and the amounts attributable to future periods are revalued through the comprehensive income statement.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 95
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
 Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year  59.3 77.6
  
Other comprehensive income/(losses)  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 27 24.6 (14.5)
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 9  (4.9) 1.5
  19.7 (13.0)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges  (36.0) (5.2)
Losses on cashflow hedges taken to income statement – operating costs  16.2 2.1
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 9 4.0 0.5
 (15.8) (2.6)
  
Other comprehensive gains/(losses) for the year, net of tax  3.9 (15.6)
  
Total comprehensive income for the year  63.2 62.0
  
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  49.4 51.0
Non-controlling interests  13.8 11.0
  63.2 62.0
THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME RECORDS ALL OF THE INCOME AND LOSSES GENERATED  
FOR THE YEAR 
Highlights of the movements in the year are set out below: 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
The profit for the year after taxation is £59.3m and includes amounts attributable to equity shareholders and non-controlling interests. 
REMEASUREMENT OF DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS 
As disclosed in note 27 the remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans were £24.6m, which consisted of rail pension plans showing remeasurement 
gains of £23.9m and bus pension plans showing remeasurement gains of £0.7m. 
UNREALISED LOSSES ON CASHFLOW HEDGES 
The Group manages its exposure to the future cost of diesel through a programme of hedging. At each period end the derivatives used are marked  
to a market price and the amounts attributable to future periods are revalued through the comprehensive income statement. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
 
 
Share 
capital
£m
Reserve for 
own shares
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
shareholders’ 
equity
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 29 June 2013 72.1 (70.2) (1.6) 1.6 0.7 29.1 31.7 14.0 45.7
Profit for the year – – – – – 70.3 70.3 7.3 77.6
Net movement on hedges (net of tax) – – (2.6) – – – (2.6) – (2.6)
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined 
benefit pension plans (net of tax) – – – – – (16.7) (16.7) 3.7 (13.0)
Total comprehensive income – – (2.6) – – 53.6 51.0 11.0 62.0
Reserves transfer – 0.3 – – – (0.3) – – –
Share based payment charge (and associated 
tax) – – – – – 2.7 2.7 – 2.7
Dividends – – – – – (34.7) (34.7) (8.6) (43.3)
At 28 June 2014 72.1 (69.9) (4.2) 1.6 0.7 50.4 50.7 16.4 67.1
Profit for the year – – – – – 52.2 52.2 7.1 59.3
Net movement on hedges (net of tax) – – (15.8) – – – (15.8) – (15.8)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit 
pension plans (net of tax) – – – – – 13.0 13.0 6.7 19.7
Total comprehensive income – – (15.8) – – 65.2 49.4 13.8 63.2
Reserves transfer – 1.1 – – – (1.1) – – –
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) – – – – – 1.9 1.9 – 1.9
Dividends – – – – – (36.7) (36.7) (12.8) (49.5)
At 27 June 2015 72.1 (68.8) (20.0) 1.6 0.7 79.7 65.3 17.4 82.7
THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY SHOWS THE MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS  
AND NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS  
Equity shareholders’ funds increased from £50.7m to £65.3m as a result of retained profit for the year exceeding dividend payments.  
Non-controlling interests have increased from £16.4m to £17.4m and consist of the appropriate share of rail profits, plus a relevant proportion of 
remeasurement gains on rail pension schemes, less dividends paid to non-controlling interests during the year. 
  96 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 27 JUNE 2015 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 12 437.4 458.6
Intangible assets 13 84.7 87.7
Trade and other receivables 17 0.8 1.2
Other financial assets 23 – 0.1
Deferred tax assets 9 11.9 12.0
  534.8 559.6
Current assets  
Inventories 16 17.9 15.6
Trade and other receivables 17 260.1 254.8
Cash and cash equivalents 18 604.2 281.8
  882.2 552.2
Assets classified as held for sale 15 6.0 72.4
Total assets  1,423.0 1,184.2
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 19 (772.9) (557.7)
Other financial liabilities 23 (19.1) (3.5)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 0.7 (2.9)
Current tax liabilities 9 (14.9) (10.6)
Provisions 24 (75.4) (66.3)
  (881.6) (641.0)
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 (310.2) (320.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 27 (59.5) (59.8)
Other financial liabilities 23 (5.5) (1.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (46.1) (50.8)
Other liabilities 19 (5.2) (2.4)
Provisions 24 (32.2) (41.7)
  (458.7) (476.1)
Total liabilities  (1,340.3) (1,117.1)
Net assets  82.7 67.1
Capital & reserves  
Share capital  72.1 72.1
Reserve for own shares  (68.8) (69.9)
Hedging reserve  (20.0) (4.2)
Other reserve  1.6 1.6
Capital redemption reserve  0.7 0.7
Retained earnings  79.7 50.4
Total shareholders’ equity  65.3 50.7
Non-controlling interests  17.4 16.4
Total equity  82.7 67.1
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew Allner,    Keith Down, 
Chairman    Group Finance Director 
2 September 2015    2 September 2015 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 97
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 27 JUNE 2015 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 12 437.4 458.6
Intangible assets 13 84.7 87.7
Trade and other receivables 17 0.8 1.2
Other financial assets 23 – 0.1
Deferred tax assets 9 11.9 12.0
  534.8 559.6
Current assets  
Inventories 16 17.9 15.6
Trade and other receivables 17 260.1 254.8
Cash and cash equivalents 18 604.2 281.8
  882.2 552.2
Assets classified as held for sale 15 6.0 72.4
Total assets  1,423.0 1,184.2
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 19 (772.9) (557.7)
Other financial liabilities 23 (19.1) (3.5)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 0.7 (2.9)
Current tax liabilities 9 (14.9) (10.6)
Provisions 24 (75.4) (66.3)
  (881.6) (641.0)
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 (310.2) (320.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 27 (59.5) (59.8)
Other financial liabilities 23 (5.5) (1.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (46.1) (50.8)
Other liabilities 19 (5.2) (2.4)
Provisions 24 (32.2) (41.7)
  (458.7) (476.1)
Total liabilities  (1,340.3) (1,117.1)
Net assets  82.7 67.1
Capital & reserves  
Share capital  72.1 72.1
Reserve for own shares  (68.8) (69.9)
Hedging reserve  (20.0) (4.2)
Other reserve  1.6 1.6
Capital redemption reserve  0.7 0.7
Retained earnings  79.7 50.4
Total shareholders’ equity  65.3 50.7
Non-controlling interests  17.4 16.4
Total equity  82.7 67.1
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew Allner,    Keith Down, 
Chairman    Group Finance Director 
2 September 2015    2 September 2015
 
 
THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SHOWS ALL OF OUR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT THE YEAR END 
Further details of the major movements of our assets and liabilities in the year are set out below: 
ASSETS 
Property, plant and equipment 
Overall, the property, plant and equipment totalled £437.4m, consistent with prior years with the vast majority held in the bus division in freehold land and 
buildings and bus vehicles. During the year the Group spent £42.3m on assets, £36.1m in the bus division and £6.2m in the rail division; offsetting this were 
depreciation charges of £70.5m, £45.7m in bus and £24.8m in rail.  
Intangible assets 
Of the total intangible balance of £84.7m, goodwill on the acquisition of bus businesses represents £75.9m, with no additions during the year. Additions  
during the year included £3.8m of software costs and £2.3m of franchise bid costs. Amortisation during the year totalled £4.2m, plus an impairment of goodwill 
of £4.9m. 
Deferred tax asset 
The deferred tax asset of £11.9m reflects the expected tax rate of 20% applied to the pension deficit. 
Other current assets 
The Group’s current assets totalled £882.2m, up £330.0m on the prior year. Of this increase, £322.4m was in cash and cash equivalents, mainly held in the  
rail business. 
Assets held for resale 
Of the balances held within the assets held for resale of £6.0m, £2.5m was property, plant and equipment and £3.5m was bus vehicles awaiting refinancing 
onto operating leases. 
LIABILITIES 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables have increased by £215.2m to £772.9m, mainly attributable to the rail business. 
Other financial liabilities 
Included in current liabilities is £19.1m and in non-current liabilities is £5.5m which represent the mark to market value of the fuel hedges, split between those 
due within one year and those due in more than one year. 
Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings 
Non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings totalled £309.5m, down from £322.9m in 2014. Principal balances within this amount are a corporate bond 
of £200m and amounts drawn on our revolving credit facility of £111.0m offset by deferred debt issue costs. Interest rates and movements on these balances 
are shown in full in note 20. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
Further details of the retirement benefit obligations in both bus and rail are shown in note 27. The deficit on the bus schemes totals £59.5m and represents  
the excess of future liabilities compared to current assets in the pension fund. This deficit is primarily being addressed using an asset backed off balance sheet 
funding arrangement agreed with the scheme trustees. The rail deficit is £nil as the ongoing responsibility for the deficit remains with DfT beyond each franchise 
term. 
Provisions 
As shown in note 24, the Group provides for both uninsured claims and for franchise commitments including property and rolling stock dilapidations.  
The total provision for uninsured claims of £7.3m is lower than in 2014. Franchise commitments are higher at £9.0m. The Group engages with external third 
party professionals to assist in the calculation of these provisions. 
TOTAL EQUITY 
Movements in equity and reserves are described in the commentary on the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 98 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED CASHFLOW STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit after tax for the year  59.3 77.6
Net finance costs 8 18.1 18.3
Tax expense 9 19.4 13.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 70.5 60.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 4.2 5.8
Impairment of goodwill 13 4.9 –
Pension plan curtailment  – (15.1)
Release of fuel hedge  – (0.5)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  – 1.2
Profit on sale of assets held for disposal  (0.4) –
Share based payment charges 6 1.6 2.2
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement  22.0 10.7
Impairment of joint venture  – 0.3
Sale of assets held for disposal  1.5 0.4
Decrease/(increase) in inventories  3.0 (1.4)
Increase in trade and other receivables  (3.3) (13.1)
Increase in trade and other payables   232.1 21.0
Movement in provisions  (1.5) 2.6
Cashflow generated from operations  431.4 184.3
Taxation paid 9 (20.3) (12.4)
Net cashflows from operating activities  411.1 171.9
Cashflows from investing activities  
Interest received  2.3 1.5
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  0.5 3.9
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (42.3) (69.5)
Purchase of intangible assets  (6.1) (1.7)
Net cash transfer on handover of rail franchise 18 34.8 –
Purchase of businesses 14  (0.4) –
(Repayment)/receipt of funding for rolling stock procurement  (68.6) 68.6
Deposit paid on rolling stock  – (68.6)
Sale of rolling stock  68.6 –
Repayments from joint venture  1.8 0.3
Sale of current investments  – 1.6
Net cashflows used in investing activities  (9.4) (63.9)
Cashflows from financing activities  
Interest paid  (16.6) (16.5)
Dividends paid to members of the parent 11 (36.7) (34.7)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (12.8) (8.6)
Repayment of borrowings  (122.5) (13.7)
Proceeds from borrowings  111.0 –
Payment of finance lease and hire purchase liabilities  (1.7) (1.6)
Net cash outflows on financing activities  (79.3) (75.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  322.4 32.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 28 June 2014 18 281.8 248.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 27 June 2015 18 604.2 281.8 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 99
CONSOLIDATED CASHFLOW STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit after tax for the year  59.3 77.6
Net finance costs 8 18.1 18.3
Tax expense 9 19.4 13.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 70.5 60.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 4.2 5.8
Impairment of goodwill 13 4.9 –
Pension plan curtailment  – (15.1)
Release of fuel hedge  – (0.5)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  – 1.2
Profit on sale of assets held for disposal  (0.4) –
Share based payment charges 6 1.6 2.2
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement  22.0 10.7
Impairment of joint venture  – 0.3
Sale of assets held for disposal  1.5 0.4
Decrease/(increase) in inventories  3.0 (1.4)
Increase in trade and other receivables  (3.3) (13.1)
Increase in trade and other payables   232.1 21.0
Movement in provisions  (1.5) 2.6
Cashflow generated from operations  431.4 184.3
Taxation paid 9 (20.3) (12.4)
Net cashflows from operating activities  411.1 171.9
Cashflows from investing activities  
Interest received  2.3 1.5
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  0.5 3.9
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (42.3) (69.5)
Purchase of intangible assets  (6.1) (1.7)
Net cash transfer on handover of rail franchise 18 34.8 –
Purchase of businesses 14  (0.4) –
(Repayment)/receipt of funding for rolling stock procurement  (68.6) 68.6
Deposit paid on rolling stock  – (68.6)
Sale of rolling stock  68.6 –
Repayments from joint venture  1.8 0.3
Sale of current investments  – 1.6
Net cashflows used in investing activities  (9.4) (63.9)
Cashflows from financing activities  
Interest paid  (16.6) (16.5)
Dividends paid to members of the parent 11 (36.7) (34.7)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (12.8) (8.6)
Repayment of borrowings  (122.5) (13.7)
Proceeds from borrowings  111.0 –
Payment of finance lease and hire purchase liabilities  (1.7) (1.6)
Net cash outflows on financing activities  (79.3) (75.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  322.4 32.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 28 June 2014 18 281.8 248.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 27 June 2015 18 604.2 281.8
 
 
THE CONSOLIDATED CASHFLOW STATEMENT SHOWS THE CASHFLOWS FROM OPERATING, INVESTING AND FINANCING 
ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR 
NET CASH/DEBT 
Closing net cash was £292.9m, a positive movement of £335.6m from opening net debt of £42.7m. This has been achieved as the result of both increased 
profitability and positive inflows in working capital. 
CASHFLOW RECONCILIATION 
A reconciliation of cash generated by operations to free cashflow and net debt, two non-GAAP measures used by management, is shown below.  
Summary cashflow 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Increase/(decrease)
£m
EBITDA
1
 185.2 163.9 21.3
Working capital/other items 224.2 9.7 214.5
Pensions 22.0 10.7 11.3
Cashflow generated from operations 431.4 184.3 247.1
Tax paid (20.3) (12.4) (7.9)
Net interest paid (14.3) (15.0) 0.7
Net capital investment (47.9) (67.3) 19.4
Net cash transfer on handover of rail franchise 34.8 – 34.8
Free cashflow 383.7 89.6 294.1
Net acquisitions (0.4) – (0.4)
Joint venture repayment 1.8 0.3 1.5
Other – 1.6 (1.6)
Dividends paid (49.5) (43.3) (6.2)
Decrease in net debt
2
 335.6 48.2 287.4
Opening net debt
2
 (42.7) (90.9)
Closing net cash/(debt) 292.9 (42.7)
1 EBITDA excludes amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items. 
2 Net debt excludes unamortised issue costs. 
EBITDA increased by £21.3m or 13.0% to £185.2m through increased profitability across all three divisions. Cash generated by operations increased  
by £247.1m or 134.1% to £431.4m, primarily driven by working capital improvements, mainly in the rail division.  
Capital expenditure, net of sale proceeds, was £19.4m lower in the year at £47.9m (2014: £67.3m) predominantly due to lower levels of new bus vehicle 
purchases in the regional business. 
Free cashflow of £383.7m was £294.1m higher, an increase of 328.2% on 2014. 
As detailed in note 20, the Group re-financed its syndicated loan facility resulting in a repayment during the year of £120.0m outstanding under the old facility 
and drawdown under the new facility of £111.0m. In addition, a US$ based loan facility of £2.5m was also cancelled and repaid. 100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND 
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these judgements and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
ultimately may differ from these estimates.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are in relation to:  
Impairment testing 
IFRS require management to perform impairment testing if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.  
The measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets 
requires estimation of the net present value of future cashflows that an 
investment might make which requires estimations of: 
• Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate  
to each business 
• Future growth rates 
• Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required 
• The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors 
appropriate to the Group 
Our assessment of impairment and the associated sensitivities are detailed  
in note 13. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and 
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out  
in note 27. The Group engages Towers Watson, a global professional services 
company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the process  
of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are 
appropriate to our particular circumstances. Management also benchmark 
these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors such  
as PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Uninsured claims 
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of claims 
not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24. In order to assess  
the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its brokers and 
claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately factored in to the 
provision for known claims. 
Measurement of franchise commitments 
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation 
provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims from 
other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24. Significant elements of  
the provisions required are subject to interpretation of franchise agreements 
and rolling stock agreements. The Group has significant internal expertise  
to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable 
management to assess the most probable outcomes. Where appropriate,  
and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is supported 
by valuations from professional external advisors to support provision levels. 
Contract and franchise accounting 
Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regard to amounts due  
and the recoverable carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising  
from franchises and other contracts. Regular forecasts are compiled on  
the outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and 
judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs. In  
cases where options exist, consideration is also given to the expected 
life of the contract or franchise. 
Exceptional items 
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income 
statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of  
the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise  
to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of 
financial performance.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 101
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND 
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these judgements and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
ultimately may differ from these estimates.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are in relation to:  
Impairment testing 
IFRS require management to perform impairment testing if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.  
The measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets 
requires estimation of the net present value of future cashflows that an 
investment might make which requires estimations of: 
• Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate  
to each business 
• Future growth rates 
• Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required 
• The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors 
appropriate to the Group 
Our assessment of impairment and the associated sensitivities are detailed  
in note 13. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and 
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out  
in note 27. The Group engages Towers Watson, a global professional services 
company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the process  
of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are 
appropriate to our particular circumstances. Management also benchmark 
these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors such  
as PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Uninsured claims 
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of claims 
not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24. In order to assess  
the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its brokers and 
claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately factored in to the 
provision for known claims. 
Measurement of franchise commitments 
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation 
provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims from 
other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24. Significant elements of  
the provisions required are subject to interpretation of franchise agreements 
and rolling stock agreements. The Group has significant internal expertise  
to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable 
management to assess the most probable outcomes. Where appropriate,  
and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is supported 
by valuations from professional external advisors to support provision levels. 
Contract and franchise accounting 
Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regard to amounts due  
and the recoverable carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising  
from franchises and other contracts. Regular forecasts are compiled on  
the outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and 
judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs. In  
cases where options exist, consideration is also given to the expected 
life of the contract or franchise. 
Exceptional items 
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income 
statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of  
the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise  
to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of 
financial performance. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
1. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND 
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRSS 
The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc  
(the Group) for the year ended 27 June 2015 were authorised for issue by 
the Board of directors on 2 September 2015 and the balance sheet was 
signed on the Board’s behalf by Andrew Allner and Keith Down. The  
Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, 
domiciled and has its registered office in England and Wales. The Group’s 
ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it  
is not under the control of any single shareholder. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 27 June 2015, and 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.  
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements 
under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare 
circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be  
so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to ‘present fairly’  
its financial statements. On that basis, the Group has departed from the 
requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised) and has accounted for  
its contractual but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme 
(RPS) under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements. Details of the 
background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 27. 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of preparation 
This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements. New accounting standards and 
interpretations which require adoption in future years have also been listed 
and our current view of the impact they will have on financial reporting. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling  
and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand (£0.1m) 
except when otherwise indicated. 
As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart from the 
requirements of IAS 19 (revised) so as to present fairly its financial 
performance, position and cashflows in respect of its obligation for the RPS. 
New standards 
The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first 
time for the financial year ending 27 June 2015: 
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities 
• IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in 
Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between 
Investors and its Associate or Joint Venture 
• IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (amendment) 
• IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (amendment) 
• IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclsoures for Non-Financial Assets 
(amendment) 
• IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting 
(amendment) 
• IFRIC 21 Levies 
Adoption of these new standards and interpretations had no material impact  
on the financial position or reported performance of the Group. IFRS 12 
requires new disclosures about material non-controlling interests which are 
given in note 28. 
The Group does not expect IFRS 15 – Revenue Recognition to have a 
material impact on the Group when implemented in the year to June 2019. 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements  
of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 27 June 2015. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to 
the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred out of the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries for use 
in the consolidation are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent 
company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All intra-group 
balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group 
transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held by  
the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are presented 
within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from  
shareholders’ equity. 
Interest in joint ventures 
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have 
joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint 
venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an 
arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities 
require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.  
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those 
necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. 
The Group’s investments in the joint venture are accounted for using the 
equity method. 
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially 
recognised at cost The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to 
recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture since 
the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the joint venture is included in the 
carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment 
individually. 
The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations 
of the joint venture. Any change in other comprehensive income of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s statement of comprehensive 
income. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in  
the equity of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, 
when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised gains and 
losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture 
are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture. 
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of a joint venture is 
shown on the face of the income statement outside operating profit and 
represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the 
subsidiaries of the joint venture. 
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same 
reporting period as the Group. When necessary, adjustments are made  
to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. 
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it  
is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in the joint 
venture. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there  
is objective evidence that the investment in the joint venture is impaired.  
If there is such evidence, that the Group calculates the amount of impairment 
as the difference between the recoverable amount of the joint venture and its 
carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of Profit of a joint 
venture’ in the income statement. 
Upon loss of joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and 
recognises any retained investment as its fair value. Any difference between 
the carrying amount of the joint venture upon loss of joint control and the fair 
value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in 
the income statement. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the income  
will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured. Revenue  
is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, 
excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.   102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING  
POLICIES CONTINUED 
Rendering of services 
The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger transport 
and rail passenger transport. 
Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket  
sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local 
transport authorities.  
Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route 
usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited (which administers the income 
allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect of passenger receipts 
and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission 
on tickets sold. In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local 
Passenger Transport Executives (PTEs) are treated as revenue, whereas 
franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in operating costs. 
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the 
customer’s journey or for other services based on the proportion of services 
provided. The attributable share of season ticket or travel card income is 
deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the  
life of the relevant season ticket or travel card. 
Rental income 
Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing  
of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access. It is accounted for on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Profit and revenue sharing/support agreements 
The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing agreements with 
the DfT. An accrual is made within amounts payable to central Government 
for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant amounts accrued at the 
balance sheet date. Payments are charged to operating costs. 
Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years  
of a franchise. Receipts are shown in revenue. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition 
to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their 
expected useful lives and the lease terms. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or fair value, 
less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life 
as follows: 
Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease 
Freehold buildings and  
long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years 
Bus vehicles   Over 8 to 15 years 
Plant and equipment   Over 3 to 15 years 
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed 
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the assets are 
written down to their recoverable amount. 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is 
reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching 
conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, 
it is recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match 
on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate. Where 
the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred 
income account and is released to the income statement over the expected 
useful life of the relevant asset. 
Franchise bid costs 
A key part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and  
securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK. All franchise 
bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as  
an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome  
of the bid. Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving 
preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised 
as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise/ 
franchise extension. 
Share based payment transactions 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the 
fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external 
valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-settled 
options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price  
of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc (market conditions); conditions 
not related to performance or service (non-vesting conditions); performance 
conditions (a vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period 
from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent 
to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors’ best estimate of 
the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument 
subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as 
described above. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions 
within the control of the Group or the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. 
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market  
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-settled award is 
cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and  
any cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.  
Exceptional items 
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income 
statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of  
the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise  
to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of 
financial performance. 
Finance revenue 
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value 
of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. Following initial 
recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses 
arising on the repurchase, settlement or other de-recognition of debt are 
recognised directly in the income statement. 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, 
and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with  
a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over  
the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase 
contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts  
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital  
repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership 
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable 
under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial 
direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on  
a straight-line basis over the lease term.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 103
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING  
POLICIES CONTINUED 
Rendering of services 
The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger transport 
and rail passenger transport. 
Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket  
sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local 
transport authorities.  
Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route 
usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited (which administers the income 
allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect of passenger receipts 
and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission 
on tickets sold. In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local 
Passenger Transport Executives (PTEs) are treated as revenue, whereas 
franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in operating costs. 
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the 
customer’s journey or for other services based on the proportion of services 
provided. The attributable share of season ticket or travel card income is 
deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the  
life of the relevant season ticket or travel card. 
Rental income 
Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing  
of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access. It is accounted for on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Profit and revenue sharing/support agreements 
The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing agreements with 
the DfT. An accrual is made within amounts payable to central Government 
for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant amounts accrued at the 
balance sheet date. Payments are charged to operating costs. 
Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years  
of a franchise. Receipts are shown in revenue. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition 
to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their 
expected useful lives and the lease terms. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or fair value, 
less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life 
as follows: 
Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease 
Freehold buildings and  
long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years 
Bus vehicles   Over 8 to 15 years 
Plant and equipment   Over 3 to 15 years 
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed 
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the assets are 
written down to their recoverable amount. 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is 
reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching 
conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, 
it is recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match 
on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate. Where 
the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred 
income account and is released to the income statement over the expected 
useful life of the relevant asset. 
Franchise bid costs 
A key part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and  
securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK. All franchise 
bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as  
an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome  
of the bid. Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving 
preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised 
as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise/ 
franchise extension. 
Share based payment transactions 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the 
fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external 
valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-settled 
options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price  
of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc (market conditions); conditions 
not related to performance or service (non-vesting conditions); performance 
conditions (a vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period 
from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent 
to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors’ best estimate of 
the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument 
subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as 
described above. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions 
within the control of the Group or the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. 
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market  
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-settled award is 
cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and  
any cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.  
Exceptional items 
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income 
statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of  
the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise  
to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of 
financial performance. 
Finance revenue 
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value 
of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. Following initial 
recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses 
arising on the repurchase, settlement or other de-recognition of debt are 
recognised directly in the income statement. 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, 
and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with  
a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over  
the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase 
contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts  
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital  
repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership 
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable 
under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial 
direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on  
a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
 
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be 
recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis 
at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences 
at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities for 
taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.  
It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in  
a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of  
the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit  
or loss; and 
• In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future  
and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred  
income tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets  
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or 
part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in correlation with the 
underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised in the income statement. 
Software 
Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an 
intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment  
in value. Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over  
its expected useful life of three to five years. 
Franchise assets 
Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require the Group 
to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability that exists at that point 
in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair value of  
the related net pension deficit that the Group expects to fund during the 
franchise term. When a pension deficit exists at the start of the franchise,  
a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in acquiring  
the right to operate the franchise. If a pension surplus exists at the start of the 
franchise, then a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised, 
representing a government grant. The intangible asset or deferred income 
balance is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the period of the franchise.  
The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at the end  
of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in other 
periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying  
value may not be recoverable. 
Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations 
(revised) using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition 
date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. 
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or 
at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, is determined 
on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed 
and included in administrative expenses. 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and 
liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance 
with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions 
as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded 
derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the  
fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset  
or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit and 
loss or in other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is 
classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally within equity. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate  
of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the 
amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the 
acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net 
identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed  
in exchange for the business combination. Assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, such as  
the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration 
arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination  
in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible 
assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are 
recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities representing  
a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can  
be measured reliably. 
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration 
transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest  
(and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) 
is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and 
the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the 
difference is recognised in profit and loss. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired 
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of 
the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that  
are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other 
assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or 
group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level 
within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management 
purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation. 
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the 
operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the 
operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation 
when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill 
disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values  
of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating  
unit retained. 
Impairment of assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication  
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate  
of the asset’s recoverable amount, being the higher of the asset’s or cash-
generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use  
is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups  
of assets, and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments  
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.  
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount,  
the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its  
recoverable amount.  
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income 
statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the 
impaired asset. An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether 
there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no 
longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only 
if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.  
The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would  
have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been   104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING  
POLICIES CONTINUED 
recognised for the asset in prior years. After such a reversal, the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying 
amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining  
useful life. 
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower  
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets are 
classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through  
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is 
available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be 
committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition  
as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. 
Inventories 
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares, that are not expected to be used 
during more than one period, are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in bringing 
the items to their present location and condition. Net realisable value 
represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and 
in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less. For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts.  
Financial assets and derivatives 
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Financial assets 
are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case 
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly 
attributable transaction costs.  
The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price 
fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with interest 
rate fluctuations. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by 
reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently  
re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and 
effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a non-
financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, 
the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been 
recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial 
measurement of that non-financial asset or liability. For hedges that do not 
result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity 
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the hedged 
item affects net profit or loss. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses 
arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement 
as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point  
it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying amount 
of the related non-financial asset as described above. If a hedged transaction  
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised  
in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement. 
Fair value measurement 
The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, and non-
financial assets, such as investment properties, at fair value at each balance 
sheet date. Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost  
are disclosed in note 23. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: 
• In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market  
for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that 
market participants act in their economic best interest. 
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its 
highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would 
use the asset in its highest and best use. 
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of 
unobservable inputs. 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the 
financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole: 
• Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities 
• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable 
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on  
a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) 
at the end of each reporting period. 
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values  
of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed 
as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the Group verifies  
the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information  
in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents. 
The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and 
liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change  
is reasonable. 
When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit 
committee and the Group’s independent auditors. This includes a discussion 
of the major assumptions used in the valuations. 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes  
of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks  
of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as  
explained above. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount 
can be made. If the effect is material, expected future cashflows are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate,  
the risks specific to the liability. 
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed,  
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery 
is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the 
income statement net of any reimbursement. Where discounting is used,  
the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised  
as a finance cost.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 105
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING  
POLICIES CONTINUED 
recognised for the asset in prior years. After such a reversal, the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying 
amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining  
useful life. 
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower  
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets are 
classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through  
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is 
available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be 
committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition  
as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. 
Inventories 
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares, that are not expected to be used 
during more than one period, are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in bringing 
the items to their present location and condition. Net realisable value 
represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and 
in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less. For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts.  
Financial assets and derivatives 
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Financial assets 
are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case 
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly 
attributable transaction costs.  
The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price 
fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with interest 
rate fluctuations. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by 
reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently  
re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and 
effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a non-
financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, 
the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been 
recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial 
measurement of that non-financial asset or liability. For hedges that do not 
result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity 
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the hedged 
item affects net profit or loss. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses 
arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement 
as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point  
it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying amount 
of the related non-financial asset as described above. If a hedged transaction  
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised  
in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement. 
Fair value measurement 
The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, and non-
financial assets, such as investment properties, at fair value at each balance 
sheet date. Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost  
are disclosed in note 23. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: 
• In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market  
for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that 
market participants act in their economic best interest. 
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its 
highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would 
use the asset in its highest and best use. 
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of 
unobservable inputs. 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the 
financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole: 
• Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities 
• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable 
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on  
a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) 
at the end of each reporting period. 
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values  
of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed 
as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the Group verifies  
the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information  
in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents. 
The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and 
liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change  
is reasonable. 
When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit 
committee and the Group’s independent auditors. This includes a discussion 
of the major assumptions used in the valuations. 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes  
of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks  
of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as  
explained above. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount 
can be made. If the effect is material, expected future cashflows are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate,  
the risks specific to the liability. 
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed,  
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery 
is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the 
income statement net of any reimbursement. Where discounting is used,  
the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised  
as a finance cost. 
 
Uninsured liabilities 
The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public 
liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. These provide 
individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits for total claims within the 
excess limits. A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group 
to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.  
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional 
advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known 
claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect 
of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet 
been reported to the Group by the insurer.  
Treasury shares 
Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are deducted 
from equity. Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised 
in shareholders’ funds as a separate reserve for own shares. Any gain or loss 
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s shares is transferred 
from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves. 
Retirement benefits 
The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined  
benefit and defined contribution. The costs of these are recognised in  
the income statement. As discussed below, the Group has invoked the 
provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and has departed 
from the requirements of IAS 19 (revised) in respect of the Rail Pension 
Schemes (RPS). 
Bus schemes 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined 
separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which 
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine  
current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine  
the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial 
advice. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of  
the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets 
(excluding net interest) are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur.  
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 
operating costs. The net interest expense or income is recognised in  
the income statement within finance costs. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises 
the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
(using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less the fair 
value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.  
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted 
securities is the published bid price. 
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier  
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the 
Group recognises restructuring-related costs. When a settlement (eliminating 
all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future 
obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership  
or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan 
assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant 
gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which 
the settlement or curtailment occurs. 
Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are charged  
to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due. 
Rail schemes 
The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit 
scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is partitioned 
into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes 
whilst it operates the relevant franchise. In contrast to the pension schemes 
operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means 
that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. A liability or 
asset is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, 
although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability or 
asset (including as appropriate the impact of any minimum funding 
requirements) represents the deficit or surplus that the Group expects  
to fund or benefit from during the franchise term. This represents a  
departure from IAS 19 (revised) so as to present fairly the Group’s financial 
performance, position and cashflow in respect of its obligations for the RPS. 
   106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
New standards and interpretations not applied 
The International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these 
financial statements: 
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)  
Effective date 
(periods beginning on or after)
IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (amendment) 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 – 2013 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 – 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture – Bearer Plants 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets – Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation 
and Amortisation  1 January 2016
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of 
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.  
3. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
The Group’s businesses are managed on a divisional basis. Selected financial data is presented on this basis below. For accounting policies see ‘Interest in joint 
ventures’ in note 2. 
For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail. The operations of Go-Ahead North 
America ceased at the end of July 2014. Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and 
similar nature of their products and services, as follows: 
The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London. 
The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London (‘TfL’) and also rail replacement and other contracted 
services in London. 
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail franchises: 
Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR. The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each operating company 
has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with DfT. Each company targets 
similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Group 
Chief Executive. The registered office of Keolis (UK) Limited is in England and Wales. 
The Go-Ahead North America division comprised a 50% investment in a US school bus operation. The Group’s share of the profit of this division was  
£nil (2014: £nil), and it was therefore not shown separately within the tables below but aggregated within regional bus until it ceased trading at the end  
of July 2014. 
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities  
and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss excluding 
amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional items. 
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties.  
The following tables present information regarding the Group’s reportable segments for the year ended 27 June 2015 and the year ended 28 June 2014. 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 107
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
New standards and interpretations not applied 
The International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these 
financial statements: 
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)  
Effective date 
(periods beginning on or after)
IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (amendment) 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 – 2013 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 – 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture – Bearer Plants 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets – Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation 
and Amortisation  1 January 2016
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of 
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.  
3. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
The Group’s businesses are managed on a divisional basis. Selected financial data is presented on this basis below. For accounting policies see ‘Interest in joint 
ventures’ in note 2. 
For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail. The operations of Go-Ahead North 
America ceased at the end of July 2014. Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and 
similar nature of their products and services, as follows: 
The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London. 
The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London (‘TfL’) and also rail replacement and other contracted 
services in London. 
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail franchises: 
Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR. The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each operating company 
has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with DfT. Each company targets 
similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Group 
Chief Executive. The registered office of Keolis (UK) Limited is in England and Wales. 
The Go-Ahead North America division comprised a 50% investment in a US school bus operation. The Group’s share of the profit of this division was  
£nil (2014: £nil), and it was therefore not shown separately within the tables below but aggregated within regional bus until it ceased trading at the end  
of July 2014. 
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities  
and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss excluding 
amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional items. 
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties.  
The following tables present information regarding the Group’s reportable segments for the year ended 27 June 2015 and the year ended 28 June 2014. 
  
 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total 
operations
£m
Segment revenue 384.8 469.7 854.5 2,414.0 3,268.5
Inter-segment revenue (24.9) (11.8) (36.7) (16.6) (53.3)
Group revenue 359.9 457.9 817.8 2,397.4 3,215.2
Operating costs (excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional items) (313.2) (415.6) (728.8) (2,371.7) (3,100.5)
Segment profit – Group operating profit (before amortisation,  
goodwill impairment and exceptional items)  46.7 42.3 89.0 25.7 114.7
Intangible amortisation (1.6) (1.8) (3.4) (0.8) (4.2)
Goodwill impairment (4.9) – (4.9) – (4.9)
Exceptional items – – – (8.8) (8.8)
Group operating profit  40.2 40.5 80.7 16.1 96.8
Net finance costs  (18.1)
Profit before tax and non-controlling interests  78.7
Tax expense  (19.4)
Profit for the year   59.3
 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
operations
£m
Other segment information  
Capital expenditure:   
Additions 28.0 8.1 36.1 6.2 42.3
Acquisitions and new rail franchises 0.4 – 0.4 6.9 7.3
Intangible fixed assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 4.9 6.1
Depreciation 27.5 18.2 45.7 24.8 70.5
At 27 June 2015, there were non-current assets of £nil (2014: £nil) and current assets of £nil (2014: £1.8m) relating to US operations, which were made up  
entirely of loans in Go-Ahead North America. The US operation ceased trading on 25 July 2014. For the year ended 27 June 2015, segment revenue for this 
venture was less than £0.1m (2014: £1.7m) and segment profit was £nil (2014: £nil). On termination of the joint venture all outstanding loans were repaid. 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, segment revenue from external customers outside the United Kingdom related entirely to the Go-Ahead North America 
joint venture. 
Year ended 28 June 2014  
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total 
operations
£m
Segment revenue 372.3 459.7 832.0 1,907.2 2,739.2
Inter-segment revenue (21.5) (10.0) (31.5) (5.3) (36.8)
Group revenue 350.8 449.7 800.5 1,901.9 2,702.4
Operating costs (excluding amortisation and exceptional items) (308.9) (408.1) (717.0) (1,882.2) (2,599.2)
Segment profit – Group operating profit (before amortisation and 
exceptional items)  41.9 41.6 83.5 19.7 103.2
Intangible amortisation (1.4) (2.0) (3.4) (2.4) (5.8)
Exceptional items 6.6 8.5 15.1 (3.0) 12.1
Group operating profit  47.1 48.1 95.2 14.3 109.5
Net finance costs  (18.3)
Profit before tax and non-controlling interests  91.2
Tax expense  (13.6)
Profit for the year   77.6
 
Regional 
bus
£m
London 
bus
£m
Total  
bus 
£m 
Rail
£m
Total
operations
£m
Other segment information  
Capital expenditure:   
Additions 52.4 8.9 61.3 8.2 69.5
Intangible fixed assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 0.5 1.7
Depreciation 28.9 16.3 45.2 15.5 60.7
   108 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
4. GROUP REVENUE 
This note provides an analysis of Group revenue. For accounting policies see ‘Revenue recognition’, ‘Rendering of services’, ‘Rental income’ and ‘Profit  
and revenue sharing/support agreements’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Rendering of services 3,208.6 2,574.6
Rental income 10.0 9.3
Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support (3.4) 118.5
Group revenue 3,215.2 2,702.4
5. OPERATING COSTS (EXCLUDING AMORTISATION, GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS) 
Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs. For accounting policies see ‘Profit and revenue sharing/support agreements’, 
‘Property, plant and equipment’, ‘Government grants’ and ‘Franchise bid costs’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Staff costs (note 6) 1,079.6 929.2
Operating lease payments 
– bus vehicles 16.6 18.4
– non-rail properties 2.6 2.8
– other non-rail 0.1 0.1
– rail rolling stock 410.9 320.2
– other rail 88.0 65.8
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges)
1
 518.2 407.3
– rail access charges 489.9 461.1
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense
2
 1,008.1 868.4
 
DfT Franchise agreement payments  228.6 182.5
Other operating income (24.8) (25.5)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
– owned assets 69.4 51.9
– leased assets 1.1 8.8
Total depreciation expense 70.5 60.7
 
Auditors’ remuneration 
– audit of the financial statements (EY) 0.5 0.5
– audit of the financial statements (Grant Thornton) – 0.1
– taxation services  0.1 0.1
– other services 0.1 –
Total auditors’ remuneration 0.7 0.7
 
Trade receivables not recovered 0.3 0.1
Energy costs 
– bus fuel 118.4 112.9
– rail diesel fuel 9.6 10.6
– rail electricity (EC4T) 109.5 84.6
– cost of site energy 15.2 11.7
Total energy costs 252.7 219.8
 
Government grants (8.0) (2.8)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.4) 1.2
Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 10.7 8.1
Other operating costs  482.5 356.8
Total operating costs 3,100.5 2,599.2
1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges) are made up of minimum lease payments of £531.7m (2014: £423.9m), net of sublease 
payments of £13.5m (2014: £16.6m) relating to other rail leases. 
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of £1,021.6m (2014: £885.0m), net of sublease payments of £13.5m  
(2014: £16.6m) relating to other rail leases. 
The fee relating to the audit of the financial statements can be analysed between audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements of £0.1m  
(2014: £0.2m) and audit of subsidiaries’ financial statements of £0.4m (2014: £0.4m). 
During the year, £1.5m (2014: £1.8m) was also paid to other ‘Big 4’ accounting firms for a variety of services.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 109
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
4. GROUP REVENUE 
This note provides an analysis of Group revenue. For accounting policies see ‘Revenue recognition’, ‘Rendering of services’, ‘Rental income’ and ‘Profit  
and revenue sharing/support agreements’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Rendering of services 3,208.6 2,574.6
Rental income 10.0 9.3
Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support (3.4) 118.5
Group revenue 3,215.2 2,702.4
5. OPERATING COSTS (EXCLUDING AMORTISATION, GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS) 
Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs. For accounting policies see ‘Profit and revenue sharing/support agreements’, 
‘Property, plant and equipment’, ‘Government grants’ and ‘Franchise bid costs’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Staff costs (note 6) 1,079.6 929.2
Operating lease payments 
– bus vehicles 16.6 18.4
– non-rail properties 2.6 2.8
– other non-rail 0.1 0.1
– rail rolling stock 410.9 320.2
– other rail 88.0 65.8
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges)
1
 518.2 407.3
– rail access charges 489.9 461.1
Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense
2
 1,008.1 868.4
 
DfT Franchise agreement payments  228.6 182.5
Other operating income (24.8) (25.5)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
– owned assets 69.4 51.9
– leased assets 1.1 8.8
Total depreciation expense 70.5 60.7
 
Auditors’ remuneration 
– audit of the financial statements (EY) 0.5 0.5
– audit of the financial statements (Grant Thornton) – 0.1
– taxation services  0.1 0.1
– other services 0.1 –
Total auditors’ remuneration 0.7 0.7
 
Trade receivables not recovered 0.3 0.1
Energy costs 
– bus fuel 118.4 112.9
– rail diesel fuel 9.6 10.6
– rail electricity (EC4T) 109.5 84.6
– cost of site energy 15.2 11.7
Total energy costs 252.7 219.8
 
Government grants (8.0) (2.8)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.4) 1.2
Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 10.7 8.1
Other operating costs  482.5 356.8
Total operating costs 3,100.5 2,599.2
1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense (excluding rail access charges) are made up of minimum lease payments of £531.7m (2014: £423.9m), net of sublease 
payments of £13.5m (2014: £16.6m) relating to other rail leases. 
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of £1,021.6m (2014: £885.0m), net of sublease payments of £13.5m  
(2014: £16.6m) relating to other rail leases. 
The fee relating to the audit of the financial statements can be analysed between audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements of £0.1m  
(2014: £0.2m) and audit of subsidiaries’ financial statements of £0.4m (2014: £0.4m). 
During the year, £1.5m (2014: £1.8m) was also paid to other ‘Big 4’ accounting firms for a variety of services. 
 
6. STAFF COSTS 
This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges. We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors  
and employees. A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the award at the date  
of grant. The note also shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year. For accounting policies see ‘Share based payment 
transactions’ in note 2. 
 
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 915.4 793.5
Social security costs 80.5 69.8
Other pension costs 82.1 63.7
Share based payments charge 1.6 2.2
 1,079.6 929.2
The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: 
 
 
2015 2014
Administration and supervision 2,964 2,452
Maintenance and engineering 2,651 2,302
Operations 20,545 19,038
 26,160 23,792
The information required by Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is provided in the 
directors’ remuneration report. In addition, total directors’ emoluments are shown in the table below: 
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Group Chief Executive 2,163 1,960
Group Finance Director 1,265 1,299
Non-executive directors 320 326
 3,748 3,585
Sharesave scheme 
Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option scheme, 
known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (the Sharesave scheme) for employees of the Group and its operating 
companies.  
The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees (including executive directors) who have completed at least six months of continuous 
service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch. To take part, qualifying employees have to enter into  
a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of £5 to a maximum (not exceeding £500) 
specified by the Group at the time of invitation. For the February 2014 launch, the maximum monthly savings limit set by the Group was £50. At the end of 
the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or take their full savings back. 
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the options were granted. The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, future  
risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life. 
There are savings-related options at 27 June 2015 as follows: 
Scheme maturity 1 May 2017
Option price (£) 17.34
No. of options unexercised at 27 June 2015 436,322
No. of options exercised during the year 164
No. of options exercisable at 27 June 2015 –
The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 27 June 2015 was £0.3m (2014: £0.1m). 
   110 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
6. STAFF COSTS CONTINUED 
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 
2015
No.
2015 
WAEP 
£ 
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 461,575 17.34 ––
Granted during the year – – 464,407 17.34
Forfeited during the year (25,089) 17.34 (2,832) 17.34
Exercised during the year (164) 17.34 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 436,322 17.34 461,575 17.34
The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was £17.34 (2014: n/a). 
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.83 years (2014: 2.83 years). These options are 
exercisable at £17.34 (2014: £17.34). 
Long Term Incentive Plans 
The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP). The LTIP provides for executive directors and certain 
other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years. 
Refer to the directors’ remuneration report for further details of the LTIP. 
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 27 June 2015 was £0.4m (2014: £1.8m). 
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the options were granted. The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were: 
 
2015
% per annum
2014
% per annum
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
Future share price volatility 22.0 24.0
FTSE Mid-250 index comparator  
Future share price volatility 20.0 25.0
Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £23.49 (2014: £15.63). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 
 2015 2014 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 259,145 293,863
Granted during the year 34,996 49,958
Forfeited during the year (36,350) (58,798)
Exercised during the year (76,489) (25,878)
Outstanding at the end of the year 181,302 259,145
At the year end, 96,348 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £26.98 (2014: £23.67).  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 0.66 years (2014: 0.79 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised was 
£24.11 (2014: £21.32). 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional  
on the achievement of financial and strategic targets. The shares are deferred over a three year period. Refer to the directors’ remuneration report for further 
details of the DSBP. 
The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 27 June 2015 was £0.9m (2014: £0.3m). 
The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions. Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at  
the date of grant. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £25.71 (2014: £16.39). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 
 2015 2014 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 56,086 14,204
Granted during the year 87,320 46,624
Forfeited during the year (5,270) (2,789)
Exercised during the year (1,992) (1,953)
Outstanding at the end of the year 136,144 56,086
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 111
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
6. STAFF COSTS CONTINUED 
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 
2015
No.
2015 
WAEP 
£ 
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 461,575 17.34 ––
Granted during the year – – 464,407 17.34
Forfeited during the year (25,089) 17.34 (2,832) 17.34
Exercised during the year (164) 17.34 ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 436,322 17.34 461,575 17.34
The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was £17.34 (2014: n/a). 
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.83 years (2014: 2.83 years). These options are 
exercisable at £17.34 (2014: £17.34). 
Long Term Incentive Plans 
The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP). The LTIP provides for executive directors and certain 
other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years. 
Refer to the directors’ remuneration report for further details of the LTIP. 
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 27 June 2015 was £0.4m (2014: £1.8m). 
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the options were granted. The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were: 
 
2015
% per annum
2014
% per annum
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
Future share price volatility 22.0 24.0
FTSE Mid-250 index comparator  
Future share price volatility 20.0 25.0
Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £23.49 (2014: £15.63). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 
 2015 2014 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 259,145 293,863
Granted during the year 34,996 49,958
Forfeited during the year (36,350) (58,798)
Exercised during the year (76,489) (25,878)
Outstanding at the end of the year 181,302 259,145
At the year end, 96,348 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £26.98 (2014: £23.67).  
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 0.66 years (2014: 0.79 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised was 
£24.11 (2014: £21.32). 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional  
on the achievement of financial and strategic targets. The shares are deferred over a three year period. Refer to the directors’ remuneration report for further 
details of the DSBP. 
The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 27 June 2015 was £0.9m (2014: £0.3m). 
The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions. Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at  
the date of grant. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £25.71 (2014: £16.39). 
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 
 2015 2014 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 56,086 14,204
Granted during the year 87,320 46,624
Forfeited during the year (5,270) (2,789)
Exercised during the year (1,992) (1,953)
Outstanding at the end of the year 136,144 56,086
  
 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan continued 
At the year end, 14,204 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was £26.98 (2014: £23.67). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.54 years (2014: 1.75 years). The weighted average share price of options exercised  
was £23.96 (2014: £20.19). 
Share incentive plans 
The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan (SIP).  
The SIP is open to all Group employees (including executive directors) who have completed at least six months’ service with a Group company at the date 
they are invited to participate in the plan. 
The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees (free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares), 
although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only. Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between  
£10 and £150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price. Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available 
to the Group and employees. 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS  
This note identifies items of an exceptional nature that have a significant impact on the results of the Group in the period. For accounting policies see 
‘Exceptional items’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Pension plan curtailment gain – 15.1
Rail restructuring costs (8.8) (3.0)
Total exceptional items (8.8) 12.1
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Total exceptional items in the year were £8.8m relating to rail restructuring costs of the GTR franchise which brings Thameslink and Greater Northern 
together with Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure. 
Year ended 28 June 2014 
Total exceptional items in the year were a net gain of £12.1m.  
The pension plan curtailment gain of £15.1m arose on closure of the defined benefit scheme. This reduced the Group’s exposure to further increasing benefits; 
current members’ existing benefits were preserved but no further benefits will accrue, resulting in an adjustment to the Group’s future liabilities.  
This was non-recurring and non-cash.  
Rail restructuring costs were £3.0m. In order to adapt effectively to increasing competitive pressures on the West Coast line, London Midland restructured 
front line and head office personnel. 
8. FINANCE REVENUE AND COSTS 
Finance revenue comprises interest received from bank deposits. Finance costs mainly arise from interest due on the bond and bank loans. For accounting 
policies see ‘Finance revenue’ and ‘Interest-bearings loans and borrowings’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 2.4 1.4
Other interest receivable – 0.1
Finance revenue 2.4 1.5
 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (2.5) (3.2)
Interest payable on £200m sterling 7.5 year bond (11.2) (11.2)
Other interest payable (2.8) (1.9)
Unwinding of discounting on provisions (1.4) (1.1)
Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (0.2) (0.4)
Interest on net pension liability (2.4) (2.0)
Finance costs (20.5) (19.8)
   112 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
9. TAXATION 
This note explains how our Group tax charge arises. The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax liabilities held across the Group.  
For accounting policies see ‘Taxation’ in note 2. 
a. Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax charge 25.0 13.5
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years (0.4) (0.9)
 24.6 12.6
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% (2014: 20%) (4.8) 7.6
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (0.4) 0.2
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction – (6.8)
Tax reported in consolidated income statement  19.4 13.6
Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Tax on remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 4.9 (2.9)
Corporation tax on cashflow hedges – (0.1)
Deferred tax on cashflow hedges (4.0) (0.4)
Deferred tax on LTIP (0.3) (0.5)
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction – 1.4
Tax reported outside of profit or loss 0.6 (2.5)
b. Reconciliation 
A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Group’s effective tax 
rate for the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation  78.7 91.2
 
At United Kingdom tax rate of 20.75% (2014: 22.5%) 16.3 20.5
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years (0.4) (0.9)
Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes  3.7 1.6
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (0.4) 0.2
Effect of changes in tax rates 0.2 (1.0)
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction – (6.8)
Tax reported in consolidated income statement 19.4 13.6
Effective tax rate 24.7% 14.9%
The normalised tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015, excluding the impact of goodwill impairment of £4.9m, is 23.2%. 
The normalised tax rate for the year ended 28 June 2014, excluding the impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction, is 22.4%. 
c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities 
A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax liability at start of year 10.6 10.5
Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 24.6 12.6
Corporation tax on cashflow hedges – (0.1)
Paid in the year (20.3) (12.4)
Current tax liability at end of year 14.9 10.6
 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 113
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
9. TAXATION 
This note explains how our Group tax charge arises. The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax liabilities held across the Group.  
For accounting policies see ‘Taxation’ in note 2. 
a. Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax charge 25.0 13.5
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years (0.4) (0.9)
 24.6 12.6
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% (2014: 20%) (4.8) 7.6
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (0.4) 0.2
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction – (6.8)
Tax reported in consolidated income statement  19.4 13.6
Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Tax on remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 4.9 (2.9)
Corporation tax on cashflow hedges – (0.1)
Deferred tax on cashflow hedges (4.0) (0.4)
Deferred tax on LTIP (0.3) (0.5)
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction – 1.4
Tax reported outside of profit or loss 0.6 (2.5)
b. Reconciliation 
A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Group’s effective tax 
rate for the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation  78.7 91.2
 
At United Kingdom tax rate of 20.75% (2014: 22.5%) 16.3 20.5
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years (0.4) (0.9)
Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes  3.7 1.6
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (0.4) 0.2
Effect of changes in tax rates 0.2 (1.0)
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction – (6.8)
Tax reported in consolidated income statement 19.4 13.6
Effective tax rate 24.7% 14.9%
The normalised tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015, excluding the impact of goodwill impairment of £4.9m, is 23.2%. 
The normalised tax rate for the year ended 28 June 2014, excluding the impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction, is 22.4%. 
c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities 
A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax liability at start of year 10.6 10.5
Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 24.6 12.6
Corporation tax on cashflow hedges – (0.1)
Paid in the year (20.3) (12.4)
Current tax liability at end of year 14.9 10.6
 
  
 
d. Deferred tax 
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Deferred tax liability 
Accelerated capital allowances (29.6) (30.6)
Other temporary differences (1.1) (2.8)
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS (15.4) (17.4)
Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet (46.1) (50.8)
 
Deferred tax asset 
Retirement benefit obligations  11.9 12.0
Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 11.9 12.0
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (1.5) 2.6
Revaluation (0.9) –
Retirement benefit obligations (4.9) 0.5
Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 2.9 3.6
Temporary differences arising on unwinding of leasing arrangements – 1.6
Other temporary differences (0.4) (0.7)
 (4.8) 7.6
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.4) 0.2
Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction – (6.8)
Deferred tax expense (5.2) 1.0
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% came into effect on 1 April 2014. A further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from  
21% to 20% came into effect on 1 April 2015.  
As proposed in the summer Budget 2015, the rates of corporation tax are going to be reduced to 18% in 2020, with an interim reduction to 19% in 2017. 
These proposals were included in the draft Finance Bill 2015 which was not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, therefore the currently enacted 
20% rate has been applied to deferred tax liabilities/assets at the year end. 
If the reduction to 18% had been enacted at the balance sheet date, the Group’s deferred tax liability would have been reduced by £4.6m to £41.5m,  
and the deferred tax asset would have been reduced by £1.2m to £10.7m. 
10. EARNINGS PER SHARE  
Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number  
of shares in issue during the year. This note also includes adjusted earnings per share, which shows a ‘normalised’ earnings per share following elimination  
of the impact of amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent  52.2 70.3
Consisting of: 
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent  64.7 63.7
Amortisation and goodwill impairment after taxation and non-controlling interests  (8.0) (3.9)
Exceptional items after taxation and non-controlling interests  (4.5) 10.5
Basic and diluted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent  52.2 70.3
 
   114 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
10. EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED 
 2015 2014
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 42,916 42,854
Dilutive potential share options (‘000) 754 448
Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 43,670 43,302
 
Earnings per share: 
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 121.6 164.0
Diluted earnings per share  119.5 162.4
Adjusted basic earnings per share  150.8 148.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  148.2 147.1
The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements. 
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 27 June 2015 to 2 September 2015. 
The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on exceptional items and amortisation is shown below for each of the periods. 
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible and goodwill amortisation and exceptional items in order to show  
a ‘normalised’ earnings per share. This is analysed as follows: 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation and 
goodwill 
impairment 
£m 
Exceptional items
£m
2015
Total
£m
Profit before taxation  78.7 9.1 8.8 96.6
Less: Taxation (19.4) (0.9) (1.8) (22.1)
Less: Non-controlling interests (7.1) (0.2) (2.5) (9.8)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 64.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  150.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  148.2
Year ended 28 June 2014 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation 
£m 
Exceptional items
£m
2014
Total
£m
Profit before taxation  91.2 5.8 (12.1) 84.9
Less: Taxation (13.6) (1.3) 2.4 (12.5)
Less: Non-controlling interests (7.3) (0.6) (0.8) (8.7)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 3.9 (10.5) 63.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  148.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  147.1
11. DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED 
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Declared and paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2014: 59.0p per share (2013: 55.5p) 25.3 23.8
Interim dividend for 2015: 26.6p per share (2014: 25.5p) 11.4 10.9
 36.7 34.7
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 27 June 2015) 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) 27.2 25.3 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 115
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
10. EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED 
 2015 2014
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 42,916 42,854
Dilutive potential share options (‘000) 754 448
Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue (‘000) 43,670 43,302
 
Earnings per share: 
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 121.6 164.0
Diluted earnings per share  119.5 162.4
Adjusted basic earnings per share  150.8 148.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  148.2 147.1
The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements. 
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 27 June 2015 to 2 September 2015. 
The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on exceptional items and amortisation is shown below for each of the periods. 
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible and goodwill amortisation and exceptional items in order to show  
a ‘normalised’ earnings per share. This is analysed as follows: 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation and 
goodwill 
impairment 
£m 
Exceptional items
£m
2015
Total
£m
Profit before taxation  78.7 9.1 8.8 96.6
Less: Taxation (19.4) (0.9) (1.8) (22.1)
Less: Non-controlling interests (7.1) (0.2) (2.5) (9.8)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 64.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  150.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  148.2
Year ended 28 June 2014 
Profit for 
the year
£m
Amortisation 
£m 
Exceptional items
£m
2014
Total
£m
Profit before taxation  91.2 5.8 (12.1) 84.9
Less: Taxation (13.6) (1.3) 2.4 (12.5)
Less: Non-controlling interests (7.3) (0.6) (0.8) (8.7)
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 3.9 (10.5) 63.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence per share)  148.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence per share)  147.1
11. DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED 
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Declared and paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2014: 59.0p per share (2013: 55.5p) 25.3 23.8
Interim dividend for 2015: 26.6p per share (2014: 25.5p) 11.4 10.9
 36.7 34.7
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 27 June 2015) 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) 27.2 25.3
 
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets. All assets are depreciated 
over their useful economic lives. For accounting policies see ‘Property, plant and equipment’ in note 2.  
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Leasehold land 
and properties
£m
Bus vehicles 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 29 June 2013 176.7 15.5 493.3 178.4 863.9
Additions 10.6 0.9 52.5 5.5 69.5
Disposals (1.8) (1.8) (25.6) (3.4) (32.6)
Transfer categories – – 0.3 (0.3) –
Transfer of assets held for resale (1.8) – – – (1.8)
At 28 June 2014 183.7 14.6 520.5 180.2 899.0
Additions 1.8 – 31.2 9.3 42.3
Acquisitions and new rail franchises – – 0.4 6.9 7.3
Disposals – – (10.9) (6.8) (17.7)
Transfer of assets held for resale 0.2 – – – 0.2
At 27 June 2015 185.7 14.6 541.2 189.6 931.1
  
Depreciation and impairment:  
At 29 June 2013 14.4 5.6 252.3 134.0 406.3
Charge for the year 5.6 1.1 39.2 14.8 60.7
Disposals – (0.7) (23.8) (1.7) (26.2)
Transfer of assets held for resale (0.4) – – – (0.4)
At 28 June 2014 19.6 6.0 267.7 147.1 440.4
Charge for the year 9.2 1.4 39.9 20.0 70.5
Disposals – – (10.6) (6.6) (17.2)
At 27 June 2015 28.8 7.4 297.0 160.5 493.7
  
Net book value:  
At 27 June 2015 156.9 7.2 244.2 29.1 437.4
At 28 June 2014 164.1 8.6 252.8 33.1 458.6
At 29 June 2013 162.3 9.9 241.0 44.4 457.6
The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bus vehicles 1.3 1.9
Plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
 1.4 2.0 116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts. 
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies the 
Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews. Software is amortised over its expected useful life. Franchise bid costs 
are amortised over the life of the franchise/franchise extension. Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract. For further details see 
‘Software’, ‘Franchise bid costs’, ‘Franchise assets’, ‘Business combinations and goodwill’ and ‘Impairment of assets’ in note 2. 
 
Goodwill
£m
Software costs
£m
Franchise bid 
costs
£m
Rail franchise 
asset 
£m 
Customer 
contracts
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 29 June 2013  80.8 16.6 8.7 16.7 13.2 136.0
Additions – 1.2 0.5 – – 1.7
Disposals – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
At 28 June 2014 80.8 17.5 9.2 16.7 13.2 137.4
Additions – 3.8 2.3 – – 6.1
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 80.8 20.6 11.5 16.7 11.9 141.5
  
Amortisation and impairment:  
At 29 June 2013  – 13.6 7.1 15.2 8.3 44.2
Charge for the year – 1.5 0.8 1.5 2.0 5.8
Disposals – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
At 28 June 2014 – 14.8 7.9 16.7 10.3 49.7
Charge for the year – 1.7 0.8 – 1.7 4.2
Impairment 4.9 – – – – 4.9
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 4.9 15.8 8.7 16.7 10.7 56.8
  
Net book value:  
At 27 June 2015 75.9 4.8 2.8 – 1.2 84.7
At 28 June 2014 80.8 2.7 1.3 – 2.9 87.7
At 29 June 2013  80.8 3.0 1.6 1.5 4.9 91.8
Software costs 
Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.  
Franchise bid costs 
A part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK. Directly attributable, incremental costs 
incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the 
franchise/franchise extension. 
Rail franchise asset 
This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets 
relating to the Southeastern rail franchise. The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.  
Customer contracts 
This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Group’s acquisitions. The value is calculated based  
on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period. 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 117
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts. 
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies the 
Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews. Software is amortised over its expected useful life. Franchise bid costs 
are amortised over the life of the franchise/franchise extension. Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract. For further details see 
‘Software’, ‘Franchise bid costs’, ‘Franchise assets’, ‘Business combinations and goodwill’ and ‘Impairment of assets’ in note 2. 
 
Goodwill
£m
Software costs
£m
Franchise bid 
costs
£m
Rail franchise 
asset 
£m 
Customer 
contracts
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 29 June 2013  80.8 16.6 8.7 16.7 13.2 136.0
Additions – 1.2 0.5 – – 1.7
Disposals – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
At 28 June 2014 80.8 17.5 9.2 16.7 13.2 137.4
Additions – 3.8 2.3 – – 6.1
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 80.8 20.6 11.5 16.7 11.9 141.5
  
Amortisation and impairment:  
At 29 June 2013  – 13.6 7.1 15.2 8.3 44.2
Charge for the year – 1.5 0.8 1.5 2.0 5.8
Disposals – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
At 28 June 2014 – 14.8 7.9 16.7 10.3 49.7
Charge for the year – 1.7 0.8 – 1.7 4.2
Impairment 4.9 – – – – 4.9
Disposals – (0.7) – – (1.3) (2.0)
At 27 June 2015 4.9 15.8 8.7 16.7 10.7 56.8
  
Net book value:  
At 27 June 2015 75.9 4.8 2.8 – 1.2 84.7
At 28 June 2014 80.8 2.7 1.3 – 2.9 87.7
At 29 June 2013  80.8 3.0 1.6 1.5 4.9 91.8
Software costs 
Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.  
Franchise bid costs 
A part of the Group’s activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK. Directly attributable, incremental costs 
incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the 
franchise/franchise extension. 
Rail franchise asset 
This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets 
relating to the Southeastern rail franchise. The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.  
Customer contracts 
This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Group’s acquisitions. The value is calculated based  
on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period. 
  
 
Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Group’s business 
operations. The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Metrobus 10.6 10.6
Go South Coast 28.6 28.6
Brighton & Hove 2.1 2.1
Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0
Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5
Go North East 2.7 2.7
Konectbus 3.6 3.6
Thames Travel 2.7 2.7
Carousel 2.1 2.1
Anglian – 3.3
Chambers – 1.6
 75.9 80.8
The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based 
on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an appropriate period. 
The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams. Growth has been extrapolated 
forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.25%-3.0% which reflects  
the directors’ view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses. 
The pre-tax cashflows for all cash-generating units have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.8% (2014: 8.3%), based on the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital. 
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate  
used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period. The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, staff costs and general overheads. 
These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors. 
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic 
and industry measures and forecasts. Having conducted sensitivity analysis on these calculations, the goodwill of Anglian and Chambers, has been fully impaired 
during the course of the year following a period of underperformance. Goodwill totalling £4.9m has been impaired, being the goodwill of these two businesses, 
which are both considered individual cash generating units. The remaining tangible assets have also been reviewed, with no further impairment necessary, having 
considered the value in use of the assets at the pre-tax discount rate of 8.8%. A 0.5% increase in discount rate or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the 
most likely to impact recoverable amounts. The change in discount rate would not cause the carrying value of any of the businesses to exceed their recoverable 
amount, a fall in turnover growth from 2.0% to 1.0% in Plymouth Citybus could cause an impairment of £3.0m unless mitigated through cost controls.  
14. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods. For accounting policies see ‘Business combinations and goodwill’  
in note 2. 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
On 8 December 2014, Plymouth Citybus Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired certain tendered contracts, commercial operations  
and nine buses from Western Greyhound Limited for a cash consideration of £0.4m. 
Net assets at date of acquisition: 
Total acquisitions – 
Fair value to 
Group 
2015
£m
Tangible fixed assets 0.4
 0.4
 
Cash 0.4
Total consideration 0.4
Acquisition costs of less than £0.1m have been expensed through operating costs. 
From the date of acquisition in the year, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of £nil and revenue of £0.9m. Had the acquisition been completed on  
the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Group’s operating profit would have been £nil and the impact on revenue would have been £1.5m. 
Year ended 28 June 2014 
There were no acquisitions during the year ended 28 June 2014. 
   118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
15. ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 
This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale. The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through  
a sale rather than through continuing use. For accounting policies see ‘Non-current assets held for sale’ in note 2. 
At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of £6.0m, consisting of £2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and £3.5m of bus 
vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases. Of the property, plant and equipment classified as assets held for sale at 28 June 2014, £1.1m was disposed 
of during the year ended 27 June 2015. 
At 28 June 2014, assets held for sale had a carrying value of £72.4m, of which £68.6m represented a payment on account for new rolling stock  
in Southern Railway Limited and in respect of which it was expected that a sale and operating leaseback would be completed before 27 June 2015.  
The remaining £3.8m related to property, plant and equipment available for sale. 
16. INVENTORIES 
Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products. For accounting policies see ‘Inventories’  
in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 17.9 15.6
The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial. 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in advance, 
amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable. Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 
Trade receivables 102.0 124.7
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (1.1) (1.0)
Trade receivables – net 100.9 123.7
Other receivables 66.5 30.6
Prepayments and accrued income 41.8 56.8
Receivable from central government 50.9 41.9
Amounts due from joint venture – 1.8
 260.1 254.8
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current 
Other receivables 0.8 1.2
Trade receivables at nominal value of £1.1m (2014: £1.0m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables 
were as follows: 
Total
£m
At 28 June 2014 1.0
Charge for the year 0.4
Utilised (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.1)
At 27 June 2015 1.1
As at 27 June 2015, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
Total 
£m 
Neither past due 
nor impaired
£m
Less than 30 days
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days 
£m 
90-120 days
£m
Past due but not 
impaired – more 
than 120 days
£m
2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 –
2014 123.7 114.3 4.6 1.9 1.8 1.1 – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 119
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
15. ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 
This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale. The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through  
a sale rather than through continuing use. For accounting policies see ‘Non-current assets held for sale’ in note 2. 
At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of £6.0m, consisting of £2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and £3.5m of bus 
vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases. Of the property, plant and equipment classified as assets held for sale at 28 June 2014, £1.1m was disposed 
of during the year ended 27 June 2015. 
At 28 June 2014, assets held for sale had a carrying value of £72.4m, of which £68.6m represented a payment on account for new rolling stock  
in Southern Railway Limited and in respect of which it was expected that a sale and operating leaseback would be completed before 27 June 2015.  
The remaining £3.8m related to property, plant and equipment available for sale. 
16. INVENTORIES 
Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products. For accounting policies see ‘Inventories’  
in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 17.9 15.6
The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial. 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in advance, 
amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable. Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 
Trade receivables 102.0 124.7
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (1.1) (1.0)
Trade receivables – net 100.9 123.7
Other receivables 66.5 30.6
Prepayments and accrued income 41.8 56.8
Receivable from central government 50.9 41.9
Amounts due from joint venture – 1.8
 260.1 254.8
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current 
Other receivables 0.8 1.2
Trade receivables at nominal value of £1.1m (2014: £1.0m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables 
were as follows: 
Total
£m
At 28 June 2014 1.0
Charge for the year 0.4
Utilised (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.1)
At 27 June 2015 1.1
As at 27 June 2015, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
Total 
£m 
Neither past due 
nor impaired
£m
Less than 30 days
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days 
£m 
90-120 days
£m
Past due but not 
impaired – more 
than 120 days
£m
2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 –
2014 123.7 114.3 4.6 1.9 1.8 1.1 –
 
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
The majority of the Group’s cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to comply with DfT short term liquidity requirements. 
For accounting policies see ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ in note 2. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 145.5 47.5
Cash and cash equivalents 458.7 234.3
 604.2 281.8
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one 
day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates. The fair value of cash 
and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value. 
Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to  
the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula. As at 27 June 2015, balances amounting to £537.6m (2014: £217.3m) were restricted. 
Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for rail season tickets, which was £172.8m at 27 June 2015 (2014: £123.4m). 
Non cashflow movements 
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group transferred in certain assets and liabilities relating to the handover of the GTR franchise. Initial cash received  
by the Group as a result of the rail franchise handover is detailed below: 
GTR
£m
Tangible fixed assets 6.9
Inventories 5.3
Trade and other receivables 7.1
Trade and other payables (53.9)
Provisions (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 34.8
 –
19. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
Trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts owed to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket 
income. They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer and amounts owed to central government.  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 
Trade payables 148.9 115.4
Other taxes and social security costs 22.8 22.8
Other payables 106.6 45.6
Deferred season ticket income 175.4 123.4
Accruals and deferred income 254.2 124.6
Payable to central government 60.5 116.0
Government grants 4.5 9.9
 772.9 557.7
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current 
Government grants  5.2 2.4
 5.2 2.4
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: 
• Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms 
• Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months  120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
20. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 
The Group’s sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond. 
The Group held a dollar loan facility to mitigate the impact of exchange rate movements on joint venture transactions. For accounting policies see  
‘Interest-bearing loans and borrowings’ and ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ in note 2. 
Net cash/debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
The net cash/debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.01 0-5 years – 111.0 – 111.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.4) (0.8) – (1.2)
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-3 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs (0.5) (0.1) – (0.6)
Finance leases and HP commitments (see note 21) 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings (0.7) 310.2 – 309.5
Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 – 1.8
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 0.2 311.1 – 311.3
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (604.2) – – (604.2)
Net cash (604.0) 311.1 – (292.9)
  
Restricted cash   537.6
Adjusted net debt  244.7
Year ended 28 June 2014 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.64 0-2 years – 120.0 – 120.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.4) – – (0.4)
Dollar loans (see below) 1.90 0-1 years 2.5 – – 2.5
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-4 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs (0.4) (0.8) – (1.2)
Finance leases and HP commitments (see note 21) 7.87 0-3 years 1.2 0.8 – 2.0
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 320.0 – 322.9
Debt issue costs 0.8 0.8 – 1.6
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 3.7 320.8 – 324.5
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (281.8) – – (281.8)
Net debt (278.1) 320.8 – 42.7
  
Restricted cash   217.3
Adjusted net debt  260.0
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 121
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
20. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 
The Group’s sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond. 
The Group held a dollar loan facility to mitigate the impact of exchange rate movements on joint venture transactions. For accounting policies see  
‘Interest-bearing loans and borrowings’ and ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ in note 2. 
Net cash/debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
The net cash/debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.01 0-5 years – 111.0 – 111.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.4) (0.8) – (1.2)
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-3 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs (0.5) (0.1) – (0.6)
Finance leases and HP commitments (see note 21) 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings (0.7) 310.2 – 309.5
Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 – 1.8
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 0.2 311.1 – 311.3
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (604.2) – – (604.2)
Net cash (604.0) 311.1 – (292.9)
  
Restricted cash   537.6
Adjusted net debt  244.7
Year ended 28 June 2014 
 
Effective 
interest rate 
% Maturity
Current Non-current 
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
After one year  
but not more than 
five years 
£m 
After 
five years
£m
Syndicated loans (see below) 1.64 0-2 years – 120.0 – 120.0
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans (0.4) – – (0.4)
Dollar loans (see below) 1.90 0-1 years 2.5 – – 2.5
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond (see below) 5.38 0-4 years – 200.0 – 200.0
Debt issue costs (0.4) (0.8) – (1.2)
Finance leases and HP commitments (see note 21) 7.87 0-3 years 1.2 0.8 – 2.0
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 320.0 – 322.9
Debt issue costs 0.8 0.8 – 1.6
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(gross of debt issue costs) 3.7 320.8 – 324.5
Cash and short term deposits (note 18) (281.8) – – (281.8)
Net debt (278.1) 320.8 – 42.7
  
Restricted cash   217.3
Adjusted net debt  260.0
  
 
Analysis of Group net debt 
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m
Syndicated loan 
facility
£m
Dollar loan
£m
Hire purchase/ 
finance leases 
£m 
£200m 
sterling bond
£m
Total
£m
29 June 2013 248.9 (133.0) (3.2) (3.6) (200.0) (90.9)
Cashflow 32.9 13.0 0.7 1.6 – 48.2
28 June 2014 281.8 (120.0) (2.5) (2.0) (200.0) (42.7)
Cashflow 287.6 9.0 2.5 1.7 – 300.8
On handover of rail franchise 34.8 – – – – 34.8
27 June 2015 604.2 (111.0) – (0.3) (200.0) 292.9
Syndicated loan facility 
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a £280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, replacing the previous £275.0m five year syndicated  
loan facility. The new loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR + Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.  
The new facility had an initial maturity of July 2019, with two one-year extensions, one of which was agreed on 1 July 2015, extending the maturity of the 
facility to July 2020 from that date. 
As at 27 June 2015, £111.0m (2014: £120.0m) of the facility was drawn down.  
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a £200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.  
Dollar loan 
On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was entered into for the purposes of financing our Go-Ahead North America joint venture. The joint venture 
ceased trading on 25 July 2014, and on termination of the joint venture all outstanding loans were repaid and the facility subsequently cancelled.  
As at 27 June 2015, $nil (2014: $4.3m) or £nil (2014: £2.5m) of this facility was drawn down. 
The dollar loan was unsecured and interest was charged at US$ LIBOR + Margin. 
Debt issue costs 
There are debt issue costs of £1.2m (2014: £0.4m) on the syndicated loan facility. 
The £200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of £0.6m (2014: £1.2m). 
The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities. The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and a minimum 
net interest cover. At the year end and throughout the year, the Group has not been in breach of any bank covenants.  
21. FINANCE LEASE AND HIRE PURCHASE COMMITMENTS 
This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments. For accounting policies see ‘Interest bearing loans and borrowings’ in note 2. 
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment. These contracts have no terms of renewal 
or purchase option escalation clauses. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the 
net minimum lease payments, are as follows: 
2015 
 
2014 
Minimum 
payments
£m
Present value  
of payments 
£m 
Minimum 
payments
£m
Present value 
of payments
£m
Within one year 0.2 0.2  1.3 1.2
After one year but not more than five years 0.1 0.1  0.9 0.8
Total minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3  2.2 2.0
Less amounts representing finance charges – –  (0.2) –
Present value of minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3  2.0 2.0
   122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
22. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES 
This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group  
to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks. 
Financial risk factors and management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Group’s activities, namely working capital, fixed asset 
expenditure, acquisitions and dividends. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly 
from its operations. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps. The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and interest 
rate risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. 
It is, and has been throughout 2014/15 and 2013/14, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased  
for internal benefit. 
The main financial risks arising from the Group’s activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. Risks arising from fuel derivatives are explained  
in note 23. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates. The Board’s policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short term on 
UK money markets. Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up to 36 months.  
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and/or interest rate derivatives. During the years ended 27 June 2015 
and 28 June 2014 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place. The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in interest rates. 
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group (excluding unamortised issue costs) as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 
is as follows: 
 
Average 
rate
%
Within 
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-3 years
£m
3-4 years 
£m 
4-5 years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 27 June 2015   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.10 – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Gross floating rate liabilities – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Cash assets 0.54 (604.2) – – – – – (604.2)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (604.2) – – – 111.0 – (493.2)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 – – 200.0 – – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 – – – – 0.3
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 – – – 200.3
   
Year ended 28 June 2014   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.70 2.5 120.0 – – – – 122.5
Gross floating rate liabilities 2.5 120.0 – – – – 122.5
Cash assets 0.53 (281.8) – – – – – (281.8)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (279.3) 120.0 – – – – (159.3)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38––– 200.0 – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 7.87 1.2 0.6 0.2 – – – 2.0
Net fixed rate liabilities 1.2 0.6 0.2 200.0 – – 202.0
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is 
fixed until the maturity of the instrument. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and 
are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 123
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
22. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES 
This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group  
to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks. 
Financial risk factors and management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Group’s activities, namely working capital, fixed asset 
expenditure, acquisitions and dividends. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly 
from its operations. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps. The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and interest 
rate risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. 
It is, and has been throughout 2014/15 and 2013/14, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased  
for internal benefit. 
The main financial risks arising from the Group’s activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. Risks arising from fuel derivatives are explained  
in note 23. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates. The Board’s policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short term on 
UK money markets. Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up to 36 months.  
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and/or interest rate derivatives. During the years ended 27 June 2015 
and 28 June 2014 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place. The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in interest rates. 
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group (excluding unamortised issue costs) as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 
is as follows: 
 
Average 
rate
%
Within 
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-3 years
£m
3-4 years 
£m 
4-5 years 
£m 
More than
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 27 June 2015   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.10 – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Gross floating rate liabilities – – – – 111.0 – 111.0
Cash assets 0.54 (604.2) – – – – – (604.2)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (604.2) – – – 111.0 – (493.2)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 – – 200.0 – – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 – – – – 0.3
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 – – – 200.3
   
Year ended 28 June 2014   
Floating rate (assets)/liabilities   
Variable rate loans 1.70 2.5 120.0 – – – – 122.5
Gross floating rate liabilities 2.5 120.0 – – – – 122.5
Cash assets 0.53 (281.8) – – – – – (281.8)
Net floating rate (assets)/liabilities (279.3) 120.0 – – – – (159.3)
Fixed rate liabilities   
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38––– 200.0 – – 200.0
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase 
contracts 7.87 1.2 0.6 0.2 – – – 2.0
Net fixed rate liabilities 1.2 0.6 0.2 200.0 – – 202.0
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is 
fixed until the maturity of the instrument. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and 
are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. 
  
 
Interest rate risk table 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit 
before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). 
Increase/ 
decrease in  
basis points 
Effect on profit 
before tax
£m
Effect on 
equity
£m
2015  
GBP 50.0 (0.5) (0.5)
GBP (50.0) 0.5 0.5
2014  
GBP 50.0 (0.6) (0.6)
GBP (50.0) 0.6 0.6
Liquidity risk 
The Group has in place a £280.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.  
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a £280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, with two one-year extensions replacing the previous 
£275.0m five year syndicated loan facility. One of the one-year extensions was agreed on 1 July 2015, extending the maturity of the current facility to July 2020. 
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a £200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017. The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates are 
detailed in note 20.  
Available liquidity as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 was as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Five year syndicated facility 2019/Five year syndicated facility 2016 280.0 275.0
£200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0
Total core facilities  480.0 475.0
Amount drawn down at 27 June 2015 311.0 320.0
Headroom 169.0 155.0
The Group’s bus vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to five year primary 
borrowing periods. This provides a regular inflow of funding to cover expenditure as it arises. 
Foreign currency risk 
On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was agreed with RBS to ensure dollar investment in our US joint venture is funded by dollar borrowings to  
provide an effective foreign currency hedge. 
The amount drawn on the facility reflects the investment in and the working capital requirements of the Group’s share in its US joint venture. As the 
investment and borrowings are both denominated in US$ this provides a natural hedge over the Group’s foreign currency exposure. 
The US$ loan facility was repaid in full during the year ended 27 June 2015 on termination of the US joint venture and the facility subsequently cancelled. 
Credit risk 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables (see note 17) and cash deposits (see note 18). The maximum credit risk exposure  
of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt. A provision is made where there  
is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future cashflows. 
The majority of the Group’s receivables are with public (or quasi-public) bodies (such as the DfT). The Group does not consider these counterparties to  
be a significant credit risk. Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding deposits with banks rated A-  
or A3 or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies. The treasury policy outlines the maximum level of deposit that can be placed with any one  
given financial institution. 
   124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
22. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED 
Contractual payments 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 based on contractual undiscounted 
payments. 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 0.2 0.7 113.8 – 114.7
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.6 – 212.9 – 223.5
Other financial liabilities  – 4.8 14.3 5.5 – 24.6
Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 – – 421.9
 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 – 784.7
Year ended 28 June 2014 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 3.2 2.2 122.0 – 127.4
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.4 – 223.3 – 233.7
Other financial liabilities  – 0.9 2.6 1.3 – 4.8
Trade and other payables 73.2 166.9 109.7 – – 349.8
 73.2 181.4 114.5 346.6 – 715.7
Managing capital 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.  
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.  
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014. 
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt (adjusted to exclude restricted cash) to EBITDA (before 
exceptionals) is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-. 
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s as follows: 
Standard & Poor’s  BBB- (Stable outlook) 
Moody’s  Baa3 (Stable outlook) 
Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 27 June 2015. 
The Group’s policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x through the cycle. The Group’s calculation of adjusted net debt is  
set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash. During the year no specific 
actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating. 
Our primary financial covenant under the 2019 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x. Under the 2019 
syndicated loan facility our covenants are 1.32x (2014: 1.59x). Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 (revised)  
of £20.0m (2014: £15.6m) resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio for 2014 of 1.45x. 
Operating leases 
The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk  
of ownership at the end of the contract. This results in £1.1m (2014: £1.9m) of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been charged  
to interest. The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of £20.1m (2014: £27.0m). 
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.  
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 125
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
22. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED 
Contractual payments 
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 based on contractual undiscounted 
payments. 
Year ended 27 June 2015 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 0.2 0.7 113.8 – 114.7
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.6 – 212.9 – 223.5
Other financial liabilities  – 4.8 14.3 5.5 – 24.6
Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 – – 421.9
 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 – 784.7
Year ended 28 June 2014 
 
On demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3-12 months
£m
1-5 years 
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 3.2 2.2 122.0 – 127.4
£200m sterling 7.5 year bond – 10.4 – 223.3 – 233.7
Other financial liabilities  – 0.9 2.6 1.3 – 4.8
Trade and other payables 73.2 166.9 109.7 – – 349.8
 73.2 181.4 114.5 346.6 – 715.7
Managing capital 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.  
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.  
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014. 
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt (adjusted to exclude restricted cash) to EBITDA (before 
exceptionals) is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-. 
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s as follows: 
Standard & Poor’s  BBB- (Stable outlook) 
Moody’s  Baa3 (Stable outlook) 
Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 27 June 2015. 
The Group’s policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x through the cycle. The Group’s calculation of adjusted net debt is  
set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash. During the year no specific 
actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating. 
Our primary financial covenant under the 2019 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x. Under the 2019 
syndicated loan facility our covenants are 1.32x (2014: 1.59x). Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 (revised)  
of £20.0m (2014: £15.6m) resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio for 2014 of 1.45x. 
Operating leases 
The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk  
of ownership at the end of the contract. This results in £1.1m (2014: £1.9m) of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been charged  
to interest. The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of £20.1m (2014: £27.0m). 
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.  
  
 
23. DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset. The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated 
with fuel price fluctuations. Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives and finance lease/hire purchase contracts. For accounting 
policies see ‘Financial assets and derivatives’, ‘Fair value measurement’ and ‘Interest bearing loans and borrowings’ in note 2. 
a. Fair values 
The fair values of the Group’s financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 and  
are as follows:  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets – 0.1
 – 0.1
Current liabilities (19.1) (3.5)
Non-current liabilities (5.5) (1.4)
 (24.6) (4.9)
Net financial liabilities (24.6) (4.8)
Year ended 27 June 2015 
Amortised cost 
£m
Held for trading –
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
£m 
Total 
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
Fuel price derivatives – (24.6) (24.6) (24.6)
Net financial liabilities – (24.6) (24.6) (24.6)
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3)
 (0.3) (24.6) (24.9) (24.9)
Year ended 28 June 2014 
Amortised cost 
£m
Held for trading – 
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
£m 
Total 
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
Fuel price derivatives – (4.8) (4.8) (4.8)
Net financial liabilities – (4.8) (4.8) (4.8)
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts (2.0) – (2.0) (2.0)
 (2.0) (4.8) (6.8) (6.8)
The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 17, 19 and 20 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the £200m 
sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of £213.7m (2014: £217.2m) but is carried at its amortised cost of £199.4m. The fair value of the £200m sterling 
7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded. The fuel price derivatives were valued 
externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for the relevant date. 
All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cashflows at prevailing interest rates. 
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: 
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly 
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 
As at 27 June 2015, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of all financial instruments.  
During the year ended 27 June 2015, there were no transfers between valuation levels. 
   126 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
23. DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
b. Hedging activities 
Fuel derivatives 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage. The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure 
to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.  
As at 27 June 2015 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 130 million litres for the year ending 2 July 2016, representing approximately 100% of  
the anticipated fuel usage in our bus division. As at 27 June 2015 the Group also had derivatives against bus fuel for the 2017 and 2018 financial years of  
63 and 31 million litres respectively. The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet. The value has been generated since  
the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices. 
The Group’s hedging policy for the target percentage of anticipated bus fuel usage hedged for the next year and subsequent two years as at 27 June 2015 
is as follows: 
2016 2017 2018
Percentage to hedge as per Group policy 100.0% 50.0% 25.0%
Actual percentage hedged 100.0% 50.0% 25.0%
In July 2015 the Group Board approved a special purchase to lock in the 2017 and 2018 fuel costs, increasing the hedging profile for 2016/17 and 2017/18 to 
100% at a price of 37.0p and 35.0p for each year respectively. 
24. PROVISIONS 
A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore 
often estimated. The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments. For accounting 
policies see ‘Provisions’ and ‘Uninsured liabilities’ in note 2. 
Franchise 
commitments
£m
Uninsured
claims
£m
Restructuring 
provision 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 28 June 2014 54.2 48.6 2.4 2.8 108.0
Provided (after discounting) 31.7 15.6 – 0.7 48.0
Utilised (14.2) (19.1) (2.0) – (35.3)
Released (9.3) (4.8) (0.4) (0.4) (14.9)
Transferred from creditors 0.2 – – – 0.2
Handover of rail franchise 0.2 – – – 0.2
Unwinding of discounting 0.4 1.0 – – 1.4
At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 – 3.1 107.6
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 75.4 66.3
Non-current 32.2 41.7
 107.6 108.0
Franchise commitments comprise £60.1m (2014: £54.2m) dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our four active rail franchises, and 
£3.1m (2014: £nil) provisions relating to other franchise commitments. Of the dilapidations provisions, £52.1m (2014: £45.4m) are classified as current. All of 
the £3.1m provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current. During the year £9.3m of provisions previously provided were released 
following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions. The dilapidations will be incurred as part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next 
three years. The provisions are based on management’s assessment of most probable outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from professional 
external advisors. 
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by  
the insurer. Of the uninsured claims, £19.1m are classified as current and £22.2m are classified as non-current based on past experience of uninsured claims 
paid out annually. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years. 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, £2.0m of the restructuring provision was utilised and £0.4m was released. The restructuring provision in the London 
Midland franchise was created to cover the cost of restructuring front line and head office personnel, in order for the franchise to adapt effectively to increasing 
competitive pressures on the West Coast line.  
Within other provisions, £2.8m relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which £0.8m are classified as current, and £2.0m are classified as non-current.  
It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years. The remaining other current provision of £0.3m relates to completion claims 
regarding the sale of our aviation business.   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 127
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
23. DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 
b. Hedging activities 
Fuel derivatives 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage. The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure 
to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.  
As at 27 June 2015 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 130 million litres for the year ending 2 July 2016, representing approximately 100% of  
the anticipated fuel usage in our bus division. As at 27 June 2015 the Group also had derivatives against bus fuel for the 2017 and 2018 financial years of  
63 and 31 million litres respectively. The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet. The value has been generated since  
the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices. 
The Group’s hedging policy for the target percentage of anticipated bus fuel usage hedged for the next year and subsequent two years as at 27 June 2015 
is as follows: 
2016 2017 2018
Percentage to hedge as per Group policy 100.0% 50.0% 25.0%
Actual percentage hedged 100.0% 50.0% 25.0%
In July 2015 the Group Board approved a special purchase to lock in the 2017 and 2018 fuel costs, increasing the hedging profile for 2016/17 and 2017/18 to 
100% at a price of 37.0p and 35.0p for each year respectively. 
24. PROVISIONS 
A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore 
often estimated. The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments. For accounting 
policies see ‘Provisions’ and ‘Uninsured liabilities’ in note 2. 
Franchise 
commitments
£m
Uninsured
claims
£m
Restructuring 
provision 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 28 June 2014 54.2 48.6 2.4 2.8 108.0
Provided (after discounting) 31.7 15.6 – 0.7 48.0
Utilised (14.2) (19.1) (2.0) – (35.3)
Released (9.3) (4.8) (0.4) (0.4) (14.9)
Transferred from creditors 0.2 – – – 0.2
Handover of rail franchise 0.2 – – – 0.2
Unwinding of discounting 0.4 1.0 – – 1.4
At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 – 3.1 107.6
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current 75.4 66.3
Non-current 32.2 41.7
 107.6 108.0
Franchise commitments comprise £60.1m (2014: £54.2m) dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our four active rail franchises, and 
£3.1m (2014: £nil) provisions relating to other franchise commitments. Of the dilapidations provisions, £52.1m (2014: £45.4m) are classified as current. All of 
the £3.1m provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current. During the year £9.3m of provisions previously provided were released 
following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions. The dilapidations will be incurred as part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next 
three years. The provisions are based on management’s assessment of most probable outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from professional 
external advisors. 
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by  
the insurer. Of the uninsured claims, £19.1m are classified as current and £22.2m are classified as non-current based on past experience of uninsured claims 
paid out annually. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years. 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, £2.0m of the restructuring provision was utilised and £0.4m was released. The restructuring provision in the London 
Midland franchise was created to cover the cost of restructuring front line and head office personnel, in order for the franchise to adapt effectively to increasing 
competitive pressures on the West Coast line.  
Within other provisions, £2.8m relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which £0.8m are classified as current, and £2.0m are classified as non-current.  
It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years. The remaining other current provision of £0.3m relates to completion claims 
regarding the sale of our aviation business.  
 
25. ISSUED CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value. For accounting policies see ‘Treasury shares’ in note 2. 
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
Millions
2015 
£m Millions
2014
£m
As at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014  46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7
The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
Share capital 
Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Group’s equity, both nominal value and share premium. 
Reserve for own shares 
The reserve for own shares is in respect of 3,955,000 ordinary shares (8.4% of share capital), of which 52,770 are held for LTIP and DSBP arrangements. 
The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders’ returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate 
circumstances. During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group has not purchased any shares (2014: no shares purchased). The Group has not cancelled  
any shares during the year (2014: no shares cancelled). 
Other reserve 
The other reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group. This treatment is in line  
with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity. 
Capital redemption reserve 
The redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of cancelled shares. 
26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.  
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier. 
Capital commitments 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Contracted for but not provided 52.7 16.2
The Group has contractual commitments regarding procurement of rolling stock of £nil (2014: £103.0m). The Group will continue to be involved in rolling 
stock introduction as part of the Thameslink rolling stock investment programme. However, the contract signed on 20 July 2013 for the procurement of  
116 new vehicles has been financed by a rolling stock leasing company. As such, the Group does not bear any liability for the new rolling stock. 
Contractual commitments 
The Group also has contractual commitments of £22.5m (2014: £213.8m) payable within one year, and £nil (2014: £18.7m) payable within two  
to five years, regarding franchise agreement payments to the DfT in respect of the Southern franchise. 
   128 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED 
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee 
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items. Renewals are at the option of the lessee. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: 
As at 27 June 2015 
 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9
Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9
 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2
As at 28 June 2014 
 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 14.7 1.0 243.9 263.9 76.0
In the second to fifth years inclusive 14.2 1.6 62.3 87.9 17.1
Over five years 0.3 3.7 – – –
 29.2 6.3 306.2 351.8 93.1
The significant increase in operating lease commitments reflects the lease obligations in the GTR franchise and the directly awarded contract in Southeastern 
which commenced during the year ended 27 June 2015. Details of the lease cost for the year are shown in note 5. 
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor 
The Group’s train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway 
infrastructure (track, stations and depots). 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: 
2015  2014 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail  
agreements 
£m  
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail 
agreements
£m
Within one year 4.8 2.8  2.1 21.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 11.7 –  1.3 1.6
Over five years 2.1 –  ––
 18.6 2.8  3.4 23.0
Performance bonds 
The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of £124.3m (2014: £121.7m), a loan guarantee bond of £36.3m (2014: £36.3m), and season  
ticket bonds of £207.2m (2014: £162.9m) to the DfT in support of the Group’s rail franchise operations.  
These bonds are supported by a 65% several guarantee from The Go-Ahead Group plc and a 35% several guarantee from Keolis (UK) Limited. 
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain 
performance bonds and a letter of credit. The letter of credit at 27 June 2015 is £45.0m (2014: £45.0m).  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 129
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED 
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee 
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items. Renewals are at the option of the lessee. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: 
As at 27 June 2015 
 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9
Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9
 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2
As at 28 June 2014 
 
Bus vehicles
£m
Bus property
£m
Rail rolling  
stock 
£m 
Rail access 
charges
£m
Rail other
£m
Within one year 14.7 1.0 243.9 263.9 76.0
In the second to fifth years inclusive 14.2 1.6 62.3 87.9 17.1
Over five years 0.3 3.7 – – –
 29.2 6.3 306.2 351.8 93.1
The significant increase in operating lease commitments reflects the lease obligations in the GTR franchise and the directly awarded contract in Southeastern 
which commenced during the year ended 27 June 2015. Details of the lease cost for the year are shown in note 5. 
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor 
The Group’s train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway 
infrastructure (track, stations and depots). 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: 
2015  2014 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail  
agreements 
£m  
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other rail 
agreements
£m
Within one year 4.8 2.8  2.1 21.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 11.7 –  1.3 1.6
Over five years 2.1 –  ––
 18.6 2.8  3.4 23.0
Performance bonds 
The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of £124.3m (2014: £121.7m), a loan guarantee bond of £36.3m (2014: £36.3m), and season  
ticket bonds of £207.2m (2014: £162.9m) to the DfT in support of the Group’s rail franchise operations.  
These bonds are supported by a 65% several guarantee from The Go-Ahead Group plc and a 35% several guarantee from Keolis (UK) Limited. 
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain 
performance bonds and a letter of credit. The letter of credit at 27 June 2015 is £45.0m (2014: £45.0m). 
 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a workplace saving scheme for our employees. We also administer a defined benefit pension 
scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals. The train operating companies participate in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme 
which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates 
the relevant franchise. For accounting policies see ‘Retirement benefits’ in note 2. 
Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: 
2015 
 
2014 
Bus 
£m
Rail
£m
Total 
£m 
Bus 
£m
Rail
£m
Total
£m
Pre-tax pension liabilities (59.5) – (59.5)  (59.8) – (59.8)
Deferred tax asset 11.9 – 11.9  12.0 – 12.0
Post-tax pension scheme liabilities (47.6) – (47.6)  (47.8) – (47.8)
 
2015 
 
2014 
Bus 
£m
Rail
£m
Total 
£m 
Bus 
£m
Rail
£m
Total
£m
Remeasurement gains/(losses) due to:   
  Experience on benefit obligations 21.9 32.9 54.8  (2.8) (15.8) (18.6)
  Changes in demographic assumptions – (206.0) (206.0)  (0.2) (52.5) (52.7)
  Changes in financial assumptions (93.5) – (93.5)  (44.1) 1.5 (42.6)
  Return on assets greater than discount rate 72.3 65.8 138.1  19.4 23.2 42.6
  Franchise adjustment movement – 131.2 131.2  – 56.8 56.8
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 0.7 23.9 24.6  (27.7) 13.2 (14.5)
BUS SCHEMES 
The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan 
For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan (the Go-Ahead Plan), which consists  
of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows. 
The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme. It was closed to new entrants during  
the year ended 28 June 2014 and replaced by a workplace saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme. The expense recognised for 
the defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is £11.3m (2014: £9.0m), being the contributions paid and payable. The expense recognised for the 
workplace saving scheme is £1.9m (2014: £0.9m) being the contributions paid and payable. 
The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a member’s final 
salary. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund. Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the advice of  
an independent qualified actuary. Previously, the section had been effectively closed to new entrants, however existing members continued to build up benefits 
under the defined benefit pension scheme. However, during the year ended 28 June 2014, the Group commenced a formal consultation process with existing 
members and their representatives to close the defined benefit section to future accrual and to offer members the opportunity to join the defined contribution 
section instead. On 31 March 2014, the defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan was closed to future accrual for all members. 
The Go-Ahead Plan is a plan for related companies within the Group where risks are shared. The overall costs of the Go-Ahead Plan have been recognised  
in the Group’s financial statements according to IAS 19 (revised). Each of the participating companies accounts on the basis of contributions paid by that 
company. The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 (revised) cost of the scheme and the aggregate contributions paid. 
The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation. This regulatory 
framework requires the Trustees of the Go-Ahead Plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and the necessary 
contributions as part of each triennial valuation. The last actuarial valuation of the Go-Ahead Plan had an effective date of 31 March 2012. 
The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead Plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other return seeking 
assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than expected returns on plan assets. 
Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy. 
Other pension plans 
Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan. This scheme is externally funded and is now closed 
to new entrants. Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.  
Summary of year end assumptions 
 
2015
%
2014
%
Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0
Discount rate 3.8 4.3
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension
1
 2.0 2.0
1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) element. 
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities. 
   130 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting 
assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65. 
 
2015
Years
2014
Years
Pensioner 20 20
Non-pensioner 21 21
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact  
of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (1.7)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 1.5
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 0.9
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014. 
2015
 £m
June 2016 25.6
June 2017 26.4
June 2018 27.3
June 2019 28.2
June 2020 29.1
June 2021 to June 2035 568.0
 
2014
 £m
June 2015 20.5
June 2016 21.2
June 2017 21.9
June 2018 22.6
June 2019 23.3
June 2020 to June 2034 456.0
Category of assets at the year end 
2015  2014 
£m %  £m %
Equities 254.3 38.6  206.4 34.2
Bonds 15.9 2.4  34.4 5.7
Property 61.4 9.3  33.8 5.6
Liability driven investing portfolio 306.1 46.4  315.0 52.2
Cash/other 21.5 3.3  13.9 2.3
 659.2 100.0  603.5 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (718.7) (663.3)
Assets at fair value 659.2 603.5
Pension scheme liability (59.5) (59.8)
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 131
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting 
assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65. 
 
2015
Years
2014
Years
Pensioner 20 20
Non-pensioner 21 21
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact  
of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (1.7)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 1.5
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 0.9
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014. 
2015
 £m
June 2016 25.6
June 2017 26.4
June 2018 27.3
June 2019 28.2
June 2020 29.1
June 2021 to June 2035 568.0
 
2014
 £m
June 2015 20.5
June 2016 21.2
June 2017 21.9
June 2018 22.6
June 2019 23.3
June 2020 to June 2034 456.0
Category of assets at the year end 
2015  2014 
£m %  £m %
Equities 254.3 38.6  206.4 34.2
Bonds 15.9 2.4  34.4 5.7
Property 61.4 9.3  33.8 5.6
Liability driven investing portfolio 306.1 46.4  315.0 52.2
Cash/other 21.5 3.3  13.9 2.3
 659.2 100.0  603.5 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (718.7) (663.3)
Assets at fair value 659.2 603.5
Pension scheme liability (59.5) (59.8)
  
 
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Service cost – 4.8
Administration costs 2.2 1.9
Settlement loss 0.5 –
Interest cost on net liabilities 2.4 2.0
Total pension costs 5.1 8.7
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 663.3 617.3
Service cost  – 6.9
Interest cost  27.2 28.2
Remeasurement (gains)/losses due to: 
  Experience on benefit obligations (21.9) 2.8
  Changes in demographic assumptions – 0.2
  Changes in financial assumptions 93.5 44.1
Curtailments – (15.1)
Transfer payments (17.9) –
Benefits paid (25.5) (21.1)
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 718.7 663.3
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of assets – at start of year 603.5 569.6
Interest income of plan assets 24.8 26.2
Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 72.3 19.4
Administration costs (2.2) (1.9)
Group contributions 4.7 9.2
Employee contributions (including age related rebates) – 2.1
Transfer payments (18.4) –
Benefits paid (25.5) (21.1)
Fair value of plan assets – at end of year 659.2 603.5
Estimated contributions for future 
£m
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2016 4.8
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2016 –
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2016 4.8
RAIL SCHEMES 
The Railways Pension Scheme (RPS) 
The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme. The RPS is a shared costs 
scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60%/40% between the franchise holder/employee respectively. The RPS sections are all open to new entrants and the 
assets and liabilities of each company’s section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes. 
BRASS matching AVC Group contributions of £0.8m (2014: £0.9m) were paid in the year. 
It is our experience that all pension obligations to the RPS cease on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the obligations 
recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 (revised) are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term. However, in spite of our  
past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted. On entering into a franchise, the 
operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of contributions agreed  
with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract.  
The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation. 
   132 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED 
Summary of year end assumptions 
 
2015
%
2014
%
Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0
Discount rate 3.8 4.3
Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 4.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension
1
 2.3 2.0
1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) element. 
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities. 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting 
assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.  
 
2015
Years
2014
Years
Pensioner 22 22
Non-pensioner 24 24
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013. 
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For rail pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact  
of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (2.0)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 2.0
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% 0.5
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 1.1
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.1
Category of assets at the year end 
2015  2014 
£m %  £m %
Equities 1,663.6 95.5  1,131.5 89.5
Bonds – –  64.5 5.1
Property 71.4 4.1  60.7 4.8
Cash 7.0 0.4  7.6 0.6
 1,742.0 100.0  1,264.3 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (2,290.4) (1,601.6)
Assets at fair value 1,742.0 1,264.3
Gross deficit (548.4) (337.3)
Franchise adjustment 548.4 337.3
Pension scheme liability – –
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 133
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED 
Summary of year end assumptions 
 
2015
%
2014
%
Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0
Discount rate 3.8 4.3
Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 4.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension
1
 2.3 2.0
1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) element. 
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities. 
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting 
assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.  
 
2015
Years
2014
Years
Pensioner 22 22
Non-pensioner 24 24
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013. 
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For rail pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact  
of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (2.0)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 2.0
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% 0.5
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 1.1
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.1
Category of assets at the year end 
2015  2014 
£m %  £m %
Equities 1,663.6 95.5  1,131.5 89.5
Bonds – –  64.5 5.1
Property 71.4 4.1  60.7 4.8
Cash 7.0 0.4  7.6 0.6
 1,742.0 100.0  1,264.3 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (2,290.4) (1,601.6)
Assets at fair value 1,742.0 1,264.3
Gross deficit (548.4) (337.3)
Franchise adjustment 548.4 337.3
Pension scheme liability – –
  
 
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Service cost 63.2 45.2
Administration costs 3.0 1.9
Interest cost on net liabilities 16.9 12.7
Interest on franchise adjustments (16.9) (12.7)
Pension cost 66.2 47.1
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 1,601.6 1,427.4
Franchise adjustment (337.3) (267.8)
 1,264.3 1,159.6
Liability movement for members’ share of assets  94.1 56.6
Service cost  63.2 45.2
Interest cost  55.2 44.0
Interest on franchise adjustment (16.9) (12.7)
Remeasurement losses/(gains) due to: 
  Experience on benefit obligations (32.9) 15.8
  Changes in demographic assumptions 206.1 52.6
  Changes in financial assumptions – (1.5)
Benefits paid (51.7) (38.5)
GTR franchise award – employers’ share of pension scheme liabilities 354.8 –
GTR franchise award – franchise adjustment (63.0) –
Franchise adjustment movement (131.2) (56.8)
 1,742.0 1,264.3
Franchise adjustment 548.4 337.3
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 2,290.4 1,601.6
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of assets – at start of year 1,264.3 1,159.6
Interest income of plan assets 38.3 31.6
Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 65.8 23.2
Administration costs (5.0) (3.2)
Group contributions 41.5 34.0
Benefits paid (51.7) (38.5)
GTR franchise award 291.8 –
Members’ share of movement of assets 97.0 57.6
Fair value of plan assets – at end of year 1,742.0 1,264.3
Estimated contributions for future 
£m
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2016 43.5
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2016 29.0
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2016 72.5
 
  134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED 
IAS 19 (revised) would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its contractual obligation under the terms 
of each franchise agreement. Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the 
financial statements present fairly the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its contractual but not its legal RPS  
defined benefit obligations. In all other respects the Group’s accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 (revised) and the treatment adopted for non-rail 
defined benefit schemes. In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of IAS 19 (revised)  
in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Group’s obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to  
a new franchise owner at exit. 
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a ‘franchise adjustment’, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end  
of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from. 
If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 (revised) the following adjustments would have been made  
to the financial statements: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance sheet 
Defined benefit pension plan (548.4) (337.3)
Deferred tax asset 109.7 67.5
 (438.7) (269.8)
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurement gains 131.2 56.8
Tax on remeasurement gains (26.2) (11.4)
 105.0 45.4
Income statement 
Operating costs – franchise adjustment (16.9) (12.7)
Deferred tax charge 3.4 2.5
 (13.5) (10.2)
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 
Bus schemes 
The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Pension 
Plan, closed to future accrual. Consequently, the number of defined contribution members increased during the year ended 28 June 2014. 
Rail schemes 
Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train operating 
companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise. As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within this business. 
The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: 
Risk Description Mitigation 
Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with 
reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension 
maturity; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. 
Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion  
of return-seeking assets (equities, diversified growth funds and  
global absolute return funds), and to offset the additional risk,  
hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should 
reduce volatility. 
Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in  
all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded  
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven 
investments. 
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked  
to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. 
The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, 
which helps to offset this risk. 
Life expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits 
for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will 
result in an increase in the liabilities. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual 
reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk. 
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain. In the past these have  
led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases,  
and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment  
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation  
Tax. The UK Government has legislated to end contracting out  
in 2016. Further legislation could result in an increase in the  
value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension. If this legislation is 
implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation  
of the arrangements. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, 
reducing risk to legislative change. The Group takes professional 
advice to keep abreast of legislative changes. 
  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 135
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
27. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED 
IAS 19 (revised) would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its contractual obligation under the terms 
of each franchise agreement. Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the 
financial statements present fairly the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its contractual but not its legal RPS  
defined benefit obligations. In all other respects the Group’s accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 (revised) and the treatment adopted for non-rail 
defined benefit schemes. In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of IAS 19 (revised)  
in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Group’s obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to  
a new franchise owner at exit. 
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a ‘franchise adjustment’, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end  
of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from. 
If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 (revised) the following adjustments would have been made  
to the financial statements: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance sheet 
Defined benefit pension plan (548.4) (337.3)
Deferred tax asset 109.7 67.5
 (438.7) (269.8)
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurement gains 131.2 56.8
Tax on remeasurement gains (26.2) (11.4)
 105.0 45.4
Income statement 
Operating costs – franchise adjustment (16.9) (12.7)
Deferred tax charge 3.4 2.5
 (13.5) (10.2)
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 
Bus schemes 
The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Pension 
Plan, closed to future accrual. Consequently, the number of defined contribution members increased during the year ended 28 June 2014. 
Rail schemes 
Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train operating 
companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise. As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within this business. 
The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: 
Risk Description Mitigation 
Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with 
reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension 
maturity; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. 
Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion  
of return-seeking assets (equities, diversified growth funds and  
global absolute return funds), and to offset the additional risk,  
hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should 
reduce volatility. 
Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in  
all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded  
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven 
investments. 
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked  
to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. 
The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, 
which helps to offset this risk. 
Life expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits 
for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will 
result in an increase in the liabilities. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual 
reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk. 
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain. In the past these have  
led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases,  
and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment  
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation  
Tax. The UK Government has legislated to end contracting out  
in 2016. Further legislation could result in an increase in the  
value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension. If this legislation is 
implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation  
of the arrangements. 
The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, 
reducing risk to legislative change. The Group takes professional 
advice to keep abreast of legislative changes. 
 
 
28. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES AND GROUP UNDERTAKINGS 
Our subsidiaries are located across the country and each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group. The Group has a number of related 
parties including joint ventures, pension schemes and directors. 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following Group undertakings: 
 % equity interest 
Name Country of incorporation  2015 2014
Trading subsidiaries  
Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom
2
 100 100
Go North East Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go Northern Limited United Kingdom  100 100
London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
London Central Bus Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Dockland Buses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Blue Triangle Buses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead London Rail Replacement Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Metrobus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Transport Support Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Konectbus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Thames Travel (Wallingford) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Hedingham and District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom  100 100
HC Chambers and Son Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Aviance UK Limited United Kingdom  100 100
New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Govia Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Go-Ahead Leasing Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Holding LLC United States of America  100 100
Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH Germany  100 100
Jointly controlled entities  
Go-Ahead North America LLC United States of America  – 50
On Track Retail Limited United Kingdom  50 n/a
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis (UK) Limited and held through Govia Limited.  
2 Held by The Go-Ahead Group plc. All other companies are held through subsidiary undertakings. 
   136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
28. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES AND GROUP UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED 
 % equity interest 
Name Country of incorporation  2015 2014
Dormant subsidiaries  
Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go Wear Buses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Reading Limited United Kingdom  100 100
South Central Limited United Kingdom  100 100
The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Property Development Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead XX Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GHI Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Southern Vectis Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go Coastline Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go London Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go West Midlands Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Levers Coaches Limited United Kingdom  100 100
MetroCity (Newcastle) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Thames Trains Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Victory Railway Holdings Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Govia Northern Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London & East Midlands Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
North London Orbital Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Abingdon Bus Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Reed Investments Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Gatwick Handling Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GH Heathrow Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GH Manchester Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GH Stansted Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Midland Airport Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Oxford Newco Limited United Kingdom  100 100
London General Trustee Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Finance Company United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Trim Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Solent Blue Line Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Services) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Southampton) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Tourist Coaches Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited United Kingdom  100 100
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis (UK) Limited and held through Govia Limited.  
Transactions with other related parties 
The Group meets certain costs of administering the Group’s retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support functions  
to the trustees. Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Go-Ahead North America (2014: 50%), a 50:50 joint venture with Cook-
Illinois, and received repayment of all loan capital, leaving a residual investment value of £nil (2014: £1.8m). During the year, £1.8m (2014: £0.3m) of loans 
were repaid to the Group by Go-Ahead North America. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
The key management are considered to be the directors of the Group. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.9 2.0
Long term employee benefits
1
  2.3 2.0
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1
 4.3 4.1
1 The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP. 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 137
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
28. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES AND GROUP UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED 
 % equity interest 
Name Country of incorporation  2015 2014
Dormant subsidiaries  
Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go Wear Buses Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Reading Limited United Kingdom  100 100
South Central Limited United Kingdom  100 100
The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Property Development Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead XX Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GHI Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Southern Vectis Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go Coastline Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go London Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go West Midlands Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Levers Coaches Limited United Kingdom  100 100
MetroCity (Newcastle) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Thames Trains Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Victory Railway Holdings Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Govia Northern Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
London & East Midlands Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
North London Orbital Railway Limited United Kingdom
1
 65 65
Abingdon Bus Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Reed Investments Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Gatwick Handling Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GH Heathrow Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GH Manchester Limited United Kingdom  100 100
GH Stansted Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Midland Airport Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Oxford Newco Limited United Kingdom  100 100
London General Trustee Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Go-Ahead Finance Company United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Hants & Dorset Trim Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Solent Blue Line Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Services) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Marchwood Motorways (Southampton) Limited United Kingdom  100 100
The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Tourist Coaches Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited United Kingdom  100 100
Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited United Kingdom  100 100
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis (UK) Limited and held through Govia Limited.  
Transactions with other related parties 
The Group meets certain costs of administering the Group’s retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support functions  
to the trustees. Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Go-Ahead North America (2014: 50%), a 50:50 joint venture with Cook-
Illinois, and received repayment of all loan capital, leaving a residual investment value of £nil (2014: £1.8m). During the year, £1.8m (2014: £0.3m) of loans 
were repaid to the Group by Go-Ahead North America. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
The key management are considered to be the directors of the Group. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.9 2.0
Long term employee benefits
1
  2.3 2.0
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1
 4.3 4.1
1 The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP. 
  
 
MATERIAL PARTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: 
Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: 
Country of incorporation  
and operation 2015 2014
Govia Limited United Kingdom 35% 35%
London and South Eastern Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
Southern Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
London and Birmingham Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
Thameslink Rail Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
New Southern Railway Limited
1
 United Kingdom 35% 35%
1 Subsidiary of Govia Limited. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: 
Govia Limited  15.8 14.6
Total comprehensive income allocated to material non-controlling interest: 
Govia Limited 13.8 11.0
The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below. The information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations: 
Summarised income statement of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 2,397.4 1,901.8
Operating costs (2,355.1) (1,867.5)
Intangible asset amortisation (0.8) (2.4)
Exceptional items (8.8) (3.0)
Finance revenue 2.3 1.4
Finance costs (2.9) (1.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 32.1 28.8
Tax expense (11.8) (7.9)
Profit for the year from controlling operations 20.3 20.9
Total comprehensive income 39.4 31.5
Attributable to non-controlling interests 13.8 11.0
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12.8 8.6
Summarised balance sheet of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current assets – inventories, trade and other receivables, cash 843.7 626.1
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax 25.0 36.0
Current liabilities – trade and other payables, provisions (815.7) (611.6)
Non-current liabilities – provisions (8.0) (8.8)
Total equity 45.0 41.7
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent 29.2 27.1
Non-controlling interest 15.8 14.6
These balance sheet amounts are shown before intercompany eliminations. 
Summarised cashflow information of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating 324.9 41.6
Investing 45.5 10.1
Financing (39.3) (26.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 331.1 25.6 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead 
Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015 which comprise the Parent 
Company statement of comprehensive income, the Parent Company 
statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company balance sheet and  
the related notes 1 to 17. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), 
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our  
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed.  
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS  
AND AUDITOR 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out  
on page 142, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent 
Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true  
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for auditors. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness  
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs  
as at 27 June 2015; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of  
the Companies Act 2006. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY  
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report  
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company financial statements. 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT  
BY EXCEPTION  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require  
for our audit. 
OTHER MATTER 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of  
The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015. 
 
 
 
 
Kathryn Barrow (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London  
2 September 2015 
 
Notes: 
1 The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of 
the directors; the work carried out by the auditor’s does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditor’s accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. 
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 139
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead 
Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015 which comprise the Parent 
Company statement of comprehensive income, the Parent Company 
statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company balance sheet and  
the related notes 1 to 17. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), 
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our  
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed.  
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS  
AND AUDITOR 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out  
on page 142, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent 
Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true  
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for auditors. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness  
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs  
as at 27 June 2015; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of  
the Companies Act 2006. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY  
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report  
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company financial statements. 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT  
BY EXCEPTION  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require  
for our audit. 
OTHER MATTER 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of  
The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015. 
 
 
 
 
Kathryn Barrow (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London  
2 September 2015 
 
Notes: 
1 The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of 
the directors; the work carried out by the auditor’s does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditor’s accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. 
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year 72.4 65.5
 
Other comprehensive income/(losses): 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 0.7 (12.2)
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified (0.1) 1.1
 0.6 (11.1)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges – (0.4)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified – 0.1
 – (0.3)
 
Other comprehensive income/(losses) for the year, net of tax 0.6 (11.4)
 
Total comprehensive income for the year 73.0 54.1
 
   140 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
 Note 
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Reserve for 
own shares 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 29 June 2013   4.7 67.4 85.0 8.8 0.7 (70.2) 415.3 511.7
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 65.5 65.5
Other comprehensive losses (net of tax)  – – – – – – (11.4) (11.4)
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 54.1 54.1
Dividends 2 – – – – – – (34.7) (34.7)
Movement on revaluation reserve  – – (3.0) – – – 3.0 –
Share based payment charge (and associated 
tax) 
 
– – – – – – 2.7 2.7
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 0.3 (0.3) –
At 28 June 2014  4.7 67.4 82.0 8.8 0.7 (69.9) 440.1 533.8
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 72.4 72.4
Other comprehensive gains (net of tax)  – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 73.0 73.0
Dividends 2 – – – – – – (36.7) (36.7)
Movement on revaluation reserve  – – (4.9) – – – 4.9 –
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) 
 
– – – – – – 1.2 1.2
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 1.1 (1.1) –
At 27 June 2015  4.7 67.4 77.1 8.8 0.7 (68.8) 481.4 571.3
 
 
  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 141
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 
 Note 
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Reserve for 
own shares 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 29 June 2013   4.7 67.4 85.0 8.8 0.7 (70.2) 415.3 511.7
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 65.5 65.5
Other comprehensive losses (net of tax)  – – – – – – (11.4) (11.4)
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 54.1 54.1
Dividends 2 – – – – – – (34.7) (34.7)
Movement on revaluation reserve  – – (3.0) – – – 3.0 –
Share based payment charge (and associated 
tax) 
 
– – – – – – 2.7 2.7
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 0.3 (0.3) –
At 28 June 2014  4.7 67.4 82.0 8.8 0.7 (69.9) 440.1 533.8
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 72.4 72.4
Other comprehensive gains (net of tax)  – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Total comprehensive income  – – – – – – 73.0 73.0
Dividends 2 – – – – – – (36.7) (36.7)
Movement on revaluation reserve  – – (4.9) – – – 4.9 –
Share based payment charge  
(and associated tax) 
 
– – – – – – 1.2 1.2
Reserves transfer  – – – – – 1.1 (1.1) –
At 27 June 2015  4.7 67.4 77.1 8.8 0.7 (68.8) 481.4 571.3
 
 
 
PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 27 JUNE 2015 
Registered No: 02100855 
Notes 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets  
Intangible assets 3 1.8 2.2
Tangible assets 4 162.9 165.6
Investments 5 215.1 215.1
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 10.8 10.8
  390.6 393.7
  
Current assets  
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 6 641.6 597.0
Cash on deposit  1.2 7.4
  642.8 604.4
  
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (115.1) (111.1)
  
Net current assets  527.7 493.3
  
Total assets less current liabilities  918.3 887.0
  
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (269.4) (273.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 11 (56.7) (57.1)
Provisions  9 (20.9) (23.1)
  
Net assets  571.3 533.8
  
Capital and reserves  
Share capital 12 4.7 4.7
Share premium  67.4 67.4
Revaluation reserve  77.1 82.0
Other reserve  8.8 8.8
Capital redemption reserve  0.7 0.7
Reserve for own shares  (68.8) (69.9)
Retained earnings  481.4 440.1
Total equity  571.3 533.8
 
 
 
 
 
Keith Down,  
Group Finance Director 
2 September 2015 
  142 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE  
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable UK law and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for  
each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare  
the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve  
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and  
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss  
of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements,  
the directors are required to:  
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;  
• state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have  
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and  
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.  
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, 
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
 
  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 143
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE  
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable UK law and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for  
each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare  
the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve  
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and  
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss  
of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements,  
the directors are required to:  
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;  
• state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have  
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and  
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.  
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, 
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
57 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
1. PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES  
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these judgements and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
ultimately may differ from these estimates.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are in relation to:  
Retirement benefit obligations 
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and 
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out in 
note 11. The Company engages with Towers Watson, a global professional 
services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the 
process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure 
they are appropriate to our particular circumstances. 
Uninsured claims 
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of claims 
not yet reported to the Company, as detailed in note 9. In order to assess  
the appropriate level of provisions the Company engages with its brokers  
and claims handlers to ensure external expertise of our claims development 
history is adequately built in to the provision. 
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT  
OF COMPLIANCE WITH FRS101 
The Parent Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for 
the year ended 27 June 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of 
directors on 2 September 2015 and the balance sheet was signed on the 
Board’s behalf by Keith Down. The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited 
company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in 
England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are publicly traded  
on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any  
single shareholder. 
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS101). 
No profit or loss is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 
of the Companies Act 2006. 
Basis of preparation 
The Company transitioned to FRS101from the UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice during the year ended 28 June 2014. The Company  
has adopted FRS101 early, which is permitted under the standard.  
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply  
in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 27 June 2015. 
The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling and are rounded  
to the nearest one hundred thousand (£0.1m). 
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions 
available under FRS101 in respect of the following disclosures: 
• the requirements of paragraph 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS2 Share  
Based Payment; 
• the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(b), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j) 
to B64(m), b64(n)(ii), B64(o)(ii), B64(p), B64(Q)(ii), B66 and B67 of IFRS3 
Business Combinations; 
• the requirement of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; 
• the requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement; 
• the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial 
Statements to present comparative information in respect of: 
• paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS1; 
• paragraph 73(e) of IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment; 
• paragraph 118(e) of IAS38 Intangible Assets 
• the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 39(c), 40A, 40B, 40C, 
40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements; 
• the requirements of IAS7 Statement of Cashflows; 
• the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; 
• the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 Related Party Disclosures; 
• the requirements in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related 
party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, 
provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly 
owned by such a member; and 
• the requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS36 
Impairment of Assets. 
Tangible fixed assets 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition 
to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their 
expected useful lives and the lease terms. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or valuation, 
less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life 
as follows: 
Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease 
Freehold buildings and  
long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years 
Plant and equipment   Over 3 to 15 years 
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed 
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists the assets are 
written down to their recoverable amount. 
Investments 
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less 
provision for impairment. 
   144 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
1. PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
Pension benefits 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined 
using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to 
benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the 
current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit 
obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Net interest is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of  
the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets 
(excluding net interest) are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur.  
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 
operating costs. The net interest expense or income is recognised in the 
income statement within finance costs. 
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier  
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the 
Group recognises restructuring-related costs. When a settlement (eliminating 
all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future 
obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or  
a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan 
assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant 
gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which 
the settlement or curtailment occurs. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate 
based on high quality corporate bonds), less the fair value of plan assets  
out of which obligations are to be settled directly for The Go-Ahead Group 
Pension Plan. Fair value is based on market price information and in the  
case of quoted securities is the published bid price. 
The total net assets and liabilities of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan  
have been brought onto the Parent Company balance sheet on transition  
to FRS101. 
For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits  
is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions 
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. 
Share based payments 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the 
fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external 
valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-settled 
options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price  
of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc (market conditions); conditions 
not related to performances or service (non-vesting condition); performance 
conditions (a vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period 
from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting date, reflects the 
extent to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors’ best 
estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case  
of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated  
as vesting as described above. This includes any award where non-vesting 
conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. 
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market  
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-settled award is 
cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any 
cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.  
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be 
recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis  
at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences 
at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities for 
taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.  
It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax 
asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part  
of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement  
is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in 
correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised  
in the income statement.  
Uninsured liabilities 
The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public 
liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. These provide 
individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an annual aggregate 
stop loss for total claims within the excess limits. A provision is recognised for 
the estimated cost to the Company to settle claims for incidents occurring 
prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the overall stop loss.  
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional 
advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known 
claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect 
of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet 
been reported to the Company. 
Treasury shares 
Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain uncancelled, are deducted 
from equity. Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised 
in shareholders’ funds as a separate reserve for own shares. Any gain or loss 
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s shares is 
transferred from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value 
of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. Following initial 
recognition, the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses 
arising on the repurchase, settlement or other derecognition of debt are 
recognised directly in the income statement. 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially  
all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the 
Company, are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding liability 
being recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives 
and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included  
as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and represents a constant 
proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership 
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable 
under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial 
direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. 
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 145
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
1. PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
Pension benefits 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined 
using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to 
benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the 
current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit 
obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Net interest is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of  
the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets 
(excluding net interest) are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur.  
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 
operating costs. The net interest expense or income is recognised in the 
income statement within finance costs. 
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier  
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the 
Group recognises restructuring-related costs. When a settlement (eliminating 
all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future 
obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or  
a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan 
assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant 
gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which 
the settlement or curtailment occurs. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate 
based on high quality corporate bonds), less the fair value of plan assets  
out of which obligations are to be settled directly for The Go-Ahead Group 
Pension Plan. Fair value is based on market price information and in the  
case of quoted securities is the published bid price. 
The total net assets and liabilities of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan  
have been brought onto the Parent Company balance sheet on transition  
to FRS101. 
For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits  
is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions 
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. 
Share based payments 
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the 
fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external 
valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-settled 
options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price  
of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc (market conditions); conditions 
not related to performances or service (non-vesting condition); performance 
conditions (a vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition). 
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period 
from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting date, reflects the 
extent to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors’ best 
estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case  
of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated  
as vesting as described above. This includes any award where non-vesting 
conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are not met. 
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. 
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market  
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
and/or service conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-settled award is 
cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any 
cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.  
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be 
recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis  
at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences 
at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities for 
taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.  
It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax 
asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part  
of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement  
is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in 
correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised  
in the income statement.  
Uninsured liabilities 
The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public 
liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties. These provide 
individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an annual aggregate 
stop loss for total claims within the excess limits. A provision is recognised for 
the estimated cost to the Company to settle claims for incidents occurring 
prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the overall stop loss.  
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional 
advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known 
claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect 
of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet 
been reported to the Company. 
Treasury shares 
Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain uncancelled, are deducted 
from equity. Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised 
in shareholders’ funds as a separate reserve for own shares. Any gain or loss 
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s shares is 
transferred from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value 
of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. Following initial 
recognition, the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses 
arising on the repurchase, settlement or other derecognition of debt are 
recognised directly in the income statement. 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially  
all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the 
Company, are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding liability 
being recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives 
and the lease terms.  
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included  
as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and represents a constant 
proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership 
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable 
under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial 
direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. 
  
 
Provisions for liabilities 
A provision is recognised when the Company has a legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the effect  
of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted. Where  
the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the 
reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery  
is virtually certain. 
Financial assets and derivatives 
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Financial assets 
are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the  
case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs.  
The Company uses interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with 
interest rate fluctuations. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value 
by reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently  
re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated  
and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition 
of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability 
is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had 
previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included  
in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset or liability. For hedges 
that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts 
deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the period in 
which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses 
arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement 
as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point  
it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying amount 
of the related non-financial asset as described above. If a hedged transaction  
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement. 
Software 
Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an 
intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment  
in value. Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over  
its expected useful life of three to five years. 
 
2. DIVIDENDS  
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Declared and paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2014: 59.0p per share (2013: 55.5p) 25.3 23.8
Interim dividend for 2015: 26.6p per share (2014: 25.5p) 11.4 10.9
 36.7 34.7
 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 27 June 2015) 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) 27.2 25.3 146 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Software
£m
Cost or valuation: 
At 28 June 2014 9.3
Additions 1.1
Disposals (0.3)
At 27 June 2015 10.1
 
Amortisation: 
At 28 June 2014 7.1
Charge for the year 1.2
At 27 June 2015 8.3
 
Net book value: 
At 27 June 2015 1.8
At 28 June 2014 2.2
4. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Leasehold  
properties 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation:  
At 28 June 2014 170.2 5.2 9.3 184.7
Additions 0.3 0.2 0.6 1.1
Disposals (1.1) – – (1.1)
Transfers to Group companies – (0.6) – (0.6)
At 27 June 2015 169.4 4.8 9.9 184.1
  
Depreciation:  
At 28 June 2014 11.1 1.0 7.0 19.1
Charge for the year 0.8 0.3 1.0 2.1
At 27 June 2015 11.9 1.3 8.0 21.2
  
Net book value:  
At 27 June 2015 157.5 3.5 1.9 162.9
At 28 June 2014 159.1 4.2 2.3 165.6
Freehold land and buildings include non-depreciable land amounting to £111.3m (2014: £111.9m). 
The net book value of leasehold properties comprises: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Leases with 50 or more years unexpired 0.2 1.1
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 147
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Software
£m
Cost or valuation: 
At 28 June 2014 9.3
Additions 1.1
Disposals (0.3)
At 27 June 2015 10.1
 
Amortisation: 
At 28 June 2014 7.1
Charge for the year 1.2
At 27 June 2015 8.3
 
Net book value: 
At 27 June 2015 1.8
At 28 June 2014 2.2
4. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Leasehold  
properties 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation:  
At 28 June 2014 170.2 5.2 9.3 184.7
Additions 0.3 0.2 0.6 1.1
Disposals (1.1) – – (1.1)
Transfers to Group companies – (0.6) – (0.6)
At 27 June 2015 169.4 4.8 9.9 184.1
  
Depreciation:  
At 28 June 2014 11.1 1.0 7.0 19.1
Charge for the year 0.8 0.3 1.0 2.1
At 27 June 2015 11.9 1.3 8.0 21.2
  
Net book value:  
At 27 June 2015 157.5 3.5 1.9 162.9
At 28 June 2014 159.1 4.2 2.3 165.6
Freehold land and buildings include non-depreciable land amounting to £111.3m (2014: £111.9m). 
The net book value of leasehold properties comprises: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Leases with 50 or more years unexpired 0.2 1.1
  
 
5. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS 
Loans to  
Group 
£m 
Shares in Group 
companies
£m
Total
£m
Cost:  
At 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 63.2 151.9 215.1
  
Provisions:   
At 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 – – –
  
Net carrying amount:  
At 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 63.2 151.9 215.1
During the year ended 28 June 2014, The Go-Ahead Group plc undertook a sale and leaseback of certain properties used by the Group. This has been 
accounted for as a sale and leaseback and results in a long term investment of £63.2m in an intermediate Group company. 
For details of the subsidiary undertakings as at 27 June 2015, refer to note 28 of the Group financial statements.  
6. DEBTORS 
Amounts falling due within one year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by Group companies 620.9 579.2
Corporation tax 11.1 10.5
Other debtors 9.6 7.3
 641.6 597.0
Amounts falling due after more than one year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by Group companies 10.8 10.8
 10.8 10.8
7. CREDITORS 
Amounts falling due within one year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 95.1 95.2
Other creditors 18.9 15.4
Finance leases (note 8) 1.1 0.5
 115.1 111.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings repayable: 
  In more than one year but not more than five years 198.2 200.9
  In more than five years – –
Finance leases (note 8) 71.2 72.1
 269.4 273.0
Included in finance leases is an amount of £72.3m (2014: £72.6m) owing to group undertakings.  
The Company has no security over its liabilities.  
   148 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
8. FINANCE LEASES 
During the year ended 28 June 2014, The Go-Ahead Group plc undertook a sale and leaseback of certain properties used by the Group. Future minimum 
lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows:  
2015  2014 
Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments 
£m 
 Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 4.2 1.1  4.0 0.5
After one year but not more than five years 18.2 6.2  17.3 4.3
After five years 91.3 65.0  86.6 67.8
Total minimum lease payments 113.7 72.3  107.9 72.6
Less amounts representing finance charges (41.4) –  (35.3) –
Present value of minimum lease payments 72.3 72.3  72.6 72.6
9. PROVISIONS 
Deferred taxation 
(note 10)
£m
Uninsured claims  
£m 
 Other
£m
Total
£m
As at 28 June 2014 13.6 9.2 0.3 23.1
Provided (after discounting) – 0.7 – 0.7
Released – (2.6) – (2.6)
Utilised –– ––
Deferred tax credited to profit and loss (0.1) – – (0.1)
Deferred tax on LTIP credited outside of profit and loss (0.3) – – (0.3)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans debited outside of profit and loss 0.1 – – 0.1
As at 27 June 2015 13.3 7.3 0.3 20.9
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by  
the insurer, subject to the overall stop loss. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within six years. 
The other provision relates to dilapidation costs. It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to three years. 
10. DEFERRED TAXATION 
Deferred taxation provided at the enacted rate is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Capital allowances in advance of depreciation 3.0 4.0
Other timing differences 6.2 3.6
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 15.4 17.4
Retirement benefit obligations (11.3) (11.4)
Deferred taxation (note 9) 13.3 13.6
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 149
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
8. FINANCE LEASES 
During the year ended 28 June 2014, The Go-Ahead Group plc undertook a sale and leaseback of certain properties used by the Group. Future minimum 
lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows:  
2015  2014 
Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments 
£m 
 Minimum value of 
payments
£m
Present value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 4.2 1.1  4.0 0.5
After one year but not more than five years 18.2 6.2  17.3 4.3
After five years 91.3 65.0  86.6 67.8
Total minimum lease payments 113.7 72.3  107.9 72.6
Less amounts representing finance charges (41.4) –  (35.3) –
Present value of minimum lease payments 72.3 72.3  72.6 72.6
9. PROVISIONS 
Deferred taxation 
(note 10)
£m
Uninsured claims  
£m 
 Other
£m
Total
£m
As at 28 June 2014 13.6 9.2 0.3 23.1
Provided (after discounting) – 0.7 – 0.7
Released – (2.6) – (2.6)
Utilised –– ––
Deferred tax credited to profit and loss (0.1) – – (0.1)
Deferred tax on LTIP credited outside of profit and loss (0.3) – – (0.3)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans debited outside of profit and loss 0.1 – – 0.1
As at 27 June 2015 13.3 7.3 0.3 20.9
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the 
expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by  
the insurer, subject to the overall stop loss. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within six years. 
The other provision relates to dilapidation costs. It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to three years. 
10. DEFERRED TAXATION 
Deferred taxation provided at the enacted rate is as follows: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Capital allowances in advance of depreciation 3.0 4.0
Other timing differences 6.2 3.6
Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 15.4 17.4
Retirement benefit obligations (11.3) (11.4)
Deferred taxation (note 9) 13.3 13.6
  
 
11. PENSION COMMITMENTS 
Defined contribution 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, the Company participated in the defined contribution scheme of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan (the Go-Ahead 
Plan). This scheme is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme. It was closed to new entrants during the year ended 28 June 2014 and replaced 
by a workplace saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme. The expense recognised in these accounts for the year in respect of the 
defined contribution scheme of the Go-Ahead Plan was £0.4m (2014: £0.1m), being the contributions paid and payable. The expense recognised for the 
workplace saving scheme was less than £0.1m (2014: less than £0.1m), being the contributions paid and payable. 
Defined benefit 
During the year ended 27 June 2015, the Company participated in a scheme which is part of the Go-Ahead Plan. The assets of the scheme are held separately 
from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.  
Previously, the section had been effectively closed to new entrants, however existing members continued to build up benefits under the defined benefit 
pension scheme. However, during the year ended 28 June 2014, the Group commenced a formal consultation process with existing members and their 
representatives to close the defined benefit section to future accrual and to offer members the opportunity to join the defined contribution section instead.  
On 31 March 2014, the defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan was closed to future accrual for all members. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the scheme was at 31 March 2012 and was updated by Towers Watson to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 
(revised) in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 27 June 2015, 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013. Up until the closure of the defined benefit section to 
future accruals on 31 March 2014, the contributions paid to the defined benefit section were paid in line with the schedule of contributions. 
The total net assets and liabilities of the scheme have been brought onto the Parent Company balance sheet on transition to FRS101.  
The following disclosures provide details of the entire defined benefit scheme.  
The main assumptions are: 
2015
%
2014
%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.0 2.0
Discount rate 3.8 4.3
Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3
Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting 
assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of the pension scheme at age 65. 
2015
Years
2014
Years
Pensioner 20 20
Non-pensioner 21 21
Sensitivity analysis 
In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used. For The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis  
of the impact of the change in the key assumptions. In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown. 
2015
Pension deficit
%
Discount rate – increase of 0.1% (1.7)
Price inflation – increase of 0.1% 1.5
Rate of increase in salaries – increase of 0.1% n/a
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – increase of 0.1% 0.9
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6
 
   150 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
11. PENSION COMMITMENTS CONTINUED 
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
The following table shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan. 
2015
£m
June 2016 25.6
June 2017 26.4
June 2018 27.3
June 2019 28.2
June 2020 29.1
June 2021 to June 2035 568.0
 
2014
 £m
June 2015 20.5
June 2016 21.2
June 2017 21.9
June 2018 22.6
June 2019 23.3
June 2020 to June 2034 456.0
Category of assets at the year end 
2015  2014 
£m %  £m %
Equities 245.3 37.9  202.4 34.2
Bonds 14.9 2.3  33.7 5.7
Property 60.2 9.3  33.1 5.6
Liability driven investing portfolio 306.1 47.3  308.9 52.2
Cash/other 20.7 3.2  13.6 2.3
 647.2 100.0  591.7 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (703.9) (648.8)
Assets at fair value 647.2 591.7
Pension scheme liabilities (56.7) (57.1)
Deferred tax asset 11.3 11.4
Post-tax pension scheme liabilities (45.4) (45.7)
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Service cost – 4.8
Administration costs 2.2 1.9
Settlement loss 0.5 –
Interest cost on net liabilities 2.3 2.0
Total pension costs 5.0 8.7
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 648.8 604.1
Service cost  – 7.0
Interest cost  26.6 27.6
Remeasurement (gains)/losses due to: 
Experience on benefit obligations (21.9) 2.5
Changes in demographic assumptions – –
Changes in financial assumptions 93.1 43.2
Curtailments – (15.1)
Transfer payments (bulk) (17.9) –
Benefits paid (24.8) (20.5)
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 703.9 648.8
   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 151
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
11. PENSION COMMITMENTS CONTINUED 
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
The following table shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan. 
2015
£m
June 2016 25.6
June 2017 26.4
June 2018 27.3
June 2019 28.2
June 2020 29.1
June 2021 to June 2035 568.0
 
2014
 £m
June 2015 20.5
June 2016 21.2
June 2017 21.9
June 2018 22.6
June 2019 23.3
June 2020 to June 2034 456.0
Category of assets at the year end 
2015  2014 
£m %  £m %
Equities 245.3 37.9  202.4 34.2
Bonds 14.9 2.3  33.7 5.7
Property 60.2 9.3  33.1 5.6
Liability driven investing portfolio 306.1 47.3  308.9 52.2
Cash/other 20.7 3.2  13.6 2.3
 647.2 100.0  591.7 100.0
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets. 
Funding position of the Group’s pension arrangements 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme: 
Liabilities at the end of the year (703.9) (648.8)
Assets at fair value 647.2 591.7
Pension scheme liabilities (56.7) (57.1)
Deferred tax asset 11.3 11.4
Post-tax pension scheme liabilities (45.4) (45.7)
Pension cost for the financial year  
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Service cost – 4.8
Administration costs 2.2 1.9
Settlement loss 0.5 –
Interest cost on net liabilities 2.3 2.0
Total pension costs 5.0 8.7
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at start of year 648.8 604.1
Service cost  – 7.0
Interest cost  26.6 27.6
Remeasurement (gains)/losses due to: 
Experience on benefit obligations (21.9) 2.5
Changes in demographic assumptions – –
Changes in financial assumptions 93.1 43.2
Curtailments – (15.1)
Transfer payments (bulk) (17.9) –
Benefits paid (24.8) (20.5)
Employer’s share of pension scheme liabilities – at end of year 703.9 648.8
  
 
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of assets – at start of year 591.7 559.2
Interest income on plan assets 24.3 25.8
Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 71.9 17.9
Administration costs (2.2) (1.9)
Group contributions 4.7 9.1
Employee contributions (including age related rebates) – 2.1
Transfer payments (bulk) (18.4) –
Benefits paid (24.8) (20.5)
Fair value of plan assets – at end of year 647.2 591.7
Estimated contributions for future 
£m
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2016 4.8
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2016 –
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2016 4.8
Risks associated with defined benefit plans  
The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing as The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and future accrual. 
Consequently, the number of defined contribution members increased during the year ended 28 June 2014. Risks associated with the defined benefit plan  
are outlined in note 27 to the Group financial statements. 
12. ISSUED CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
 
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
Millions
2015 
£m Millions
2014
£m
As 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to the profit and loss reserve of the Company at 27 June 2015 is £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). 
The reserve for own shares is in respect of 3,955,000 ordinary shares (8.4% of total share capital), of which 52,770 are held for LTIP and DSBP arrangements. 
The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders’ returns and are being held as treasury shares for re-issue in appropriate circumstances. 
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Company has not purchased any shares (2014: no shares purchased). The Company has not cancelled any shares 
during the year (2014: no shares cancelled). 
The information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is provided  
in the directors’ report. 
The audit fee payable in respect of the Company was £0.1m (2014: £0.2m). Other fees payable to the auditor in respect of the Company were less than 
£0.1m (2014: less than £0.1m). 
13. OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS 
The Company’s future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
 Property 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Within one year 0.6 0.6
In second to fifth years 0.8 0.4
After five years 1.0 –
 2.4 1.0
 
   152 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
14. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
There were capital commitments of £nil at 27 June 2015 (2014: £0.1m). 
15. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
The Company provides guarantees in respect of bank and equipment finance borrowings of the subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group plc. 
The Company has issued guarantees dated 30 March 2006 to participating subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan in respect of scheme liabilities 
arising. Total liabilities in respect of this guaranteed scheme were £45.4m as at 27 June 2015 (2014: £45.7m).  
At 27 June 2015 letters of credit amounting to £45.0m (2014: £45.0m) were provided by a Company banker, guaranteed by the Company, in favour of one  
of the Group’s insurers, to cover liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
16. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS 
Full disclosures of the Group’s Sharesave scheme, SIP, LTIP and DSBP are given in note 6 to the Group financial statements. 
17. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS101, and transactions with 100% subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group plc have not  
been disclosed. 
The Company owns 65% of the ordinary shares in Govia Limited. London and Southeastern Railway Limited (Southeastern), London and Birmingham Railway 
Limited (London Midland), Thameslink Rail Limited (Thameslink), New Southern Railway Limited (New Southern), Southern Railway Limited (Southern) and 
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (GTR) are 100% owned by Govia Limited and hence the Company owns a 65% interest. 
 Govia Southeastern London Midland  Thameslink  New Southern  Southern GTR 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest paid to related party 0.3 0.2 – – – – – – – – – – – –
Interest received from related party – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Loans to related party (90.0) (39.0) – – – – – – – – – – – –
Repayment of loan from related party 28.0 53.0 – – – – – – – – – – – –
Management charges – – 1.3 1.6 1.1 1.3 – – – – 1.3 1.6 2.2 –
Amounts owed from related party 30.4 47.6 – – 1.8 11.8 – – – – – 0.8 16.9 –
Amounts owed to related party – – 1.8 54.2 – – 0.6 0.6 11.0 11.9 8.7 – – –
During the year Southeastern, London Midland, Southern and GTR have traded with wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company; £16.6m (2014: £5.3m)  
of costs were incurred by Southeastern, London Midland, Southern and GTR on an arm’s length basis.  
  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 153
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
14. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
There were capital commitments of £nil at 27 June 2015 (2014: £0.1m). 
15. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
The Company provides guarantees in respect of bank and equipment finance borrowings of the subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group plc. 
The Company has issued guarantees dated 30 March 2006 to participating subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan in respect of scheme liabilities 
arising. Total liabilities in respect of this guaranteed scheme were £45.4m as at 27 June 2015 (2014: £45.7m).  
At 27 June 2015 letters of credit amounting to £45.0m (2014: £45.0m) were provided by a Company banker, guaranteed by the Company, in favour of one  
of the Group’s insurers, to cover liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
16. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS 
Full disclosures of the Group’s Sharesave scheme, SIP, LTIP and DSBP are given in note 6 to the Group financial statements. 
17. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS101, and transactions with 100% subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead Group plc have not  
been disclosed. 
The Company owns 65% of the ordinary shares in Govia Limited. London and Southeastern Railway Limited (Southeastern), London and Birmingham Railway 
Limited (London Midland), Thameslink Rail Limited (Thameslink), New Southern Railway Limited (New Southern), Southern Railway Limited (Southern) and 
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (GTR) are 100% owned by Govia Limited and hence the Company owns a 65% interest. 
 Govia Southeastern London Midland  Thameslink  New Southern  Southern GTR 
 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest paid to related party 0.3 0.2 – – – – – – – – – – – –
Interest received from related party – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Loans to related party (90.0) (39.0) – – – – – – – – – – – –
Repayment of loan from related party 28.0 53.0 – – – – – – – – – – – –
Management charges – – 1.3 1.6 1.1 1.3 – – – – 1.3 1.6 2.2 –
Amounts owed from related party 30.4 47.6 – – 1.8 11.8 – – – – – 0.8 16.9 –
Amounts owed to related party – – 1.8 54.2 – – 0.6 0.6 11.0 11.9 8.7 – – –
During the year Southeastern, London Midland, Southern and GTR have traded with wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company; £16.6m (2014: £5.3m)  
of costs were incurred by Southeastern, London Midland, Southern and GTR on an arm’s length basis.  
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Final dividend record date 30 October 2015
First quarter trading update 20 October 2015
AGM 22 October 2015
Final dividend payment date 13 November 2015
Half year end 26 December 2015
Half year results announcement 18 February 2016
Half year dividend payment April 2016
Next financial year end 2 July 2016
Full year results announcement 8 September 2016
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The 28th AGM of the Group will be held at the Hilton Newcastle Gateshead, 
Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 2AR on Thursday 22 October 2015 at 11.00am. 
Details of the business to be considered can be found in the Notice of Meeting 
which will be available on the Group’s corporate website (www.go-ahead.com) 
from 22 September 2015. 
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
The dividend dates are available on our corporate website in the financial 
calendar. Following each dividend payment date we will send a tax voucher  
to your home address. Please therefore ensure that Equiniti have your correct 
address and bank details.
We recommend that you arrange for your dividends to be paid directly  
into your bank account:
• to avoid the risk of losing a cheque in the post and thereby incurring  
a replacement fee; and
• for faster receipt of your dividend which is paid into your account on the 
payment date, rather than waiting for a cheque to be delivered, deposited 
and cleared
T o select this method of dividend payment, please contact Equiniti directly  
using the details on page 155. 
MANAGING YOUR SHARES
The Group’s Registrar, Equiniti, is responsible for maintaining our register of 
members. Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should 
contact Equiniti directly. 
Shareholders can sign up for a Shareview portfolio which enables you to:
• View information regarding your holding
• Change your address and bank details online; 
• Sell or purchase shares in the Group online
Go to www.shareview.co.uk and click on ‘Register’ in the top left corner to 
sign up for these services. When completing your details you will need your 
shareholder reference number which is the eleven digit number found on  
your latest tax voucher or share certificate. 
DUPLICATE DOCUMENTS
If you have more than one registered shareholder account, you will receive 
duplicate documentation and split dividend payments. T o request that your 
accounts be combined, please contact Equiniti. 
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
As far as possible, the Group provides shareholder documents via the corporate 
website. If you wish to receive future shareholder communications electronically, 
please sign up via Shareview (details above). By electing to receive shareholder 
communications electronically you will be allowing us to communicate with you 
securely in a more environmentally friendly and cost effective way.
WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS (“BOILER ROOM” SCAMS)
Shareholders are advised to be extremely cautious of any unsolicited advice 
from third parties; offers to buy shares at a discount; or offers of free reports 
about the Group. By law, the Group’s register of members is open to public 
inspection however, we do not endorse any specific share dealing facilities; 
will not pass on shareholder information to any third party; and any requests 
for access to the register are subject to ‘proper purpose’ requirements which 
ensure that personal data is not used unlawfully.
SHAREHOLDER PROFILE BY SIZE OF HOLDING AS AT  
27 JUNE 2015
No of  
holdings % Shares held 
% Issued  
share capital
1 – 10,000 3,042 92.80 2,269,899 4.84
10,001 – 100,000 171 5.22 5,534,848 11.80
100,001 – 500,000 43 1.31 9,412,011 20.06
500,001 – 1,000,000 10 0.30 7,546,281 16.09
Over 1,000,001 12 0.37 22,143,103 47.21
T otal 3,278 100 46,906,142 100
SHAREHOLDER PROFILE BY CATEGORY AS AT  
27 JUNE 2015
No. of  
holdings Number of shares % of holdings % of shares 
Treasury Shares 1 3,902,230 0.03 8.32
Directors 4 82,944 0.12 0.18
Other individuals 2,484 3,983,666 75.78 8.49
Institutional investors 789 38,937,302 24.07 83.01
T otal 3,278 46,906,142 100 100
It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through 
nominee companies, therefore, the percentage of shares held by private holders 
is likely to be higher than that shown.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
As at 2 September 2015 (being the latest practical date prior to the date of 
this report), the Group had been notified, in accordance with Rule 5 of the UK 
Listing Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant 
holdings in the Group’s ordinary share capital
1
:
Notifiable interests Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding
Norges Bank 1,318,890 3.07 Direct interest
Old Mutual Plc 2,155,361 5.01
Indirect (4.99%)  
& CFD (0.02%)
1  A notification was received from JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Limited during the year  
to disclose that they no longer held notifiable interest.
These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment 
management clients’ interests within the respective asset management 
companies. No further notifications have been received; however, the  
 above holdings may have changed without triggering a further notification.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Group’s Articles can only be amended by a special resolution at a general 
meeting of shareholders. Shareholders of the Group can request a copy of the 
Articles by contacting the Group Company Secretary at the registered office.  154 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS
The appointment and replacement of directors are governed by the Articles, 
the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. The directors are 
appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. The 
directors have the power to appoint a director during the year but any person 
so appointed must be subject to election at the first AGM following their 
appointment. The current Articles require that all directors are subject to  
re-election on an annual basis.
The business of the Group is managed by the directors, who may exercise  
all powers of the Group that are not required to be exercised by the Group  
in general meeting, subject to the Group’s Articles, relevant statutory law  
and any direction given by the Group in general meeting by special resolution. 
All directors will be submitting themselves for re-election at the AGM in 
accordance with the Code. The Board is satisfied that each Director is qualified 
for re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment (whether through 
resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a 
takeover bid. 
SHAREHOLDER AND CONTROL STRUCTURE
On 27 June 2015, the Group’s issued share capital comprised a single class of 
shares referred to as ordinary shares, with a nominal value of ten pence each. 
At this date there were 46,906,142 ordinary shares in issue, of which 3,902,230 
were held in treasury. The Group did not purchase any of its own shares during 
the year for either cancellation or to hold as treasury shares, and no such shares 
were purchased between the year end and the date of this report. During  
the year ended 27 June 2015, the Group has not re-purchased any shares  
for potential LTIP and DSBP awards that may vest in the future (2014: nil).
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Group  
other than:
• Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, insider trading laws)
• Restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Group 
to deal in the Group’s securities
All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, regardless of the 
total number of shares held. On a show of hands at a general meeting of the 
Group, every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to 
vote shall have one vote (except in the circumstance where a proxy has been 
appointed by more than one member, in which case he or she will have one 
vote for and one vote against if he or she has been instructed by one or more 
members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote 
against). On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled 
to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held. The Notice of Meeting 
specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either in person or by proxy 
in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 2015 AGM. All proxy votes are 
counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution 
are announced at the AGM itself and published on the Group’s corporate 
website (www.go-ahead.com) after the meeting.
The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that  
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The authorities for the Group to allot relevant securities (up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,433,464) and for the disapplication of pre-emption 
rights on the allotment of equity securities (for cash up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £215,020), as passed by ordinary and special resolutions at the 2014 
AGM, were not utilised in the financial year or up to the date of this report. 
These authorities will expire at the 2015 AGM and approval for new authorities 
will be sought. In the last three years no shares have been issued on a non-pre-
emptive basis, other than those issued under all-employee share schemes which 
are not included for the purposes of this authority.
The authority for the Group to make market purchases of its own ordinary 
shares, as passed by special resolution at the 2014 AGM, was still in effect at the 
end of the financial year and will expire at the 2015 AGM where approval for  
a new authority will be sought. 
Under the existing authority the maximum aggregate number of shares that 
can be purchased is 4,300,391. The authority also limits the maximum number 
of shares held in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the Group and 
states minimum and maximum prices payable for shares purchased under the 
authority. During the financial year this authority was not utilised. .
Each of the Group’s rail franchise agreements is subject to change of control 
criteria that would mean, on a change of control, there would be deemed to 
be an ‘event of default’ that could potentially terminate the rail franchise. This 
is, however, subject to the discretion of the Secretary of State. Additionally, the 
Group’s sterling bond issue dated 24 March 2010 and Revolving Credit Facility 
dated 16 July 2014 are subject to change of control clauses that contain certain 
specified conditions which could lead to a compulsory prepayment of the bond 
and loan respectively. Transport for London also has powers to prevent the 
operation of London Bus contracts by an existing operator which is the subject 
of a change of control.
CORPORATE WEBSITE
Our corporate website www.go-ahead.com provides a wealth of information 
on the Group and its activities. Information available on the site includes half 
year results and trading updates which are not sent to shareholders, as well 
as share price data, dividend information and the financial calendar. Y ou can 
register to receive email alerts when the website has been updated with 
announcements, press releases and other publications.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 155
www.go-ahead.com
enquiries@go-ahead.com
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
Carolyn Ferguson
The Go-Ahead Group plc
3rd Floor, 41-51 Grey Street
Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE
T el: +44 (0) 191 232 3123
HEAD OFFICE
The Go-Ahead Group plc
4 Matthew Parker Street,
London, SW1H 9NP
T el: +44 (0) 20 7799 8999
REGISTRAR
Equiniti Ltd
Aspect House, Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
T el: +44 (0) 871 384 2193
*
AUDITOR
Ernst & Y oung LLP
1 More London Place
London, SE1 2AF
JOINT CORPORATE BROKER
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London, EC2V 7QP
JOINT CORPORATE BROKER
Jefferies Hoare Govett Ltd
Vinters Place
Upper Thames Street
London, EC4V 3BJ
PRINCIPAL BANKER
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Corporate Banking
8th Floor, 135 Bishopsgate
London, EC2M 3UR
FINANCIAL PR ADVISORS
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
3 London Wall Buildings
London, EC2M 5SY
*  Calls to this number are charged at 10p per minute plus network extras.  
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday.
CORPORATE INFORMATION 156 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
MORE INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS
UP TO DATE INFORMATION
OUR WEBSITE CONTAINS A WEAL TH OF INFORMATION 
INCLUDING:
• an overview of who we are, what we do and the markets in  
which we operate
• profiles of our operational directors, the Board of directors and  
our corporate governance framework
• a map showing the areas in which we operate, the latest Group news  
and our financial calendar
SUSTAINABILITY
DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT OUR APPROACH  
TO SUSTAINABILITY , OUR TARGETS AND  
PERFORMANCE, INCLUDING:
• progress against KPIs for our strategic priorities – Society, Customers,  
Our People and Finance, including our economic impacts
• datasheets showing detailed sustainability performance for the Group  
and our operating companies
• the Group’s awards and achievements
• our approach to engaging and working with our key stakeholders
INVESTOR RELATIONS
A WIDE RANGE OF INFORMATION INCLUDING:
• a five year history of Group and divisional key financials
• a record of all trading updates, half year and full year  
announcements in the results centre
• share price information, including download function
• our dividend policy, dividend history and dividend calculator
• our bus fuel hedging policy and profile of the  
Group’s hedging prices
SOCIAL MEDIA
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND LINKEDIN
 linkedin.com/company/The-Go-Ahead-Group-PLC 
 
 facebook.com/TheGoAheadGroupPLC 
 
 twitter.com/TheGoAheadGroup
Our new website has been designed to be viewed on any device.  
It delivers concise, consistent and meaningful information using  
interactive charts and tools - developed to assist investors.  
Strong use of videos, animations and infographics help  
explain and illustrate the material issues to our organisation.  2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Registered Office
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
3rd Floor 
41–51 Grey Street 
Newcastle Upon Tyne 
NE1 6EE
T el: +44 (0) 191 232 3123
Head Office
The Go-Ahead Group plc 
4 Matthew Parker Street 
Westminster 
London 
SW1H 9NP
T el: +44 (0) 20 7799 8999
Website: www.go-ahead.com
Email: enquiries@go-ahead.com
THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 June 201 5
This report is printed on Arctic Matt paper. Manufactured at a mill 
that is FSC
®
 accredited, certified to both ISO 14001 Environmental 
Management and the European Eco-Management and Audit Schemes
Printed by Principal Colour
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC
®
 
Chain of Custody certified
Photography by Martin Burton  
www.martin-burton.squarespace.com
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc 
www.blacksunplc.com
Summary verification statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd
For the seventh year, Bureau Veritas UK Ltd has worked with  
The Go-Ahead Group plc. to verify selected sustainability Key 
Performance Indicator (KPI) data contained within the Group’s 
annual report
The information and data reviewed for this verification process  
relates to the period from 28 June 2014 to the 27 June 2015
T o read the statement in full online, visit  
www.go-ahead.com/en/sustainability
