 Gresham Computing plc Annual Financial Report 2015
Financial Technology Solutions
Control. Certainty. Integrity. Gresham Computing plc is a leading 
software and services company 
specialising in real-time transaction 
control and enterprise data 
integrity solutions.
Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 CEO’s statement
08 Business model
10  S t r a t e g y a n d 
key performance indicators
12 Principal risks and uncertainties
14 Operational review
16 Financial review
Corporate Governance
20 Board of Directors
22 Statement of corporate governance
27 Remuneration report
33 Directors’ report
37 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
39 Independent auditor’s report
42 Consolidated income statement 
43  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
44  Consolidated statement of 
financial position
45  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
46 Consolidated statement of cashflow
47 Notes to the financial statements 
78 Company balance sheet
79  Company statement of changes 
in equity
80  Notes to the Company 
financial statements
88 Corporate information
gresham-computing.com Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 01
Total revenues
£14.8m
12.8 
2014
14.8 
2015
CTC recurring revenues
£1.9m
1.0 
2014
1.9 
2015
Total recurring revenues
£7.8m
6.5 
2014
7.8 
2015
Statutory PBT
£1.6m
0.5 
2014
1.6 
2015
CTC revenues
£5.3m
3.5 
2014
5.3 
2015
Adjusted EBITDA*
£2.7m
1.1 
2014
2.7 
2015
 • Continued strong CTC customer progress in 2015:
 • Eleven new customer wins in the UK, continental Europe, 
the US and Singapore; and
 • Continued expansion of use from existing customer base.
 • T otal revenues up 16% to £14.8m (2014: £12.8m), 
of which recurring revenues increased 20% to £7 .8m 
(2014: £6.5m).
 • CTC revenues up 51% to £5.3m (2014: £3.5m).
 • CTC software revenues up 212% to £3.4m 
(2014: £1.1m), of which CTC software recurring 
revenues up 90% to £1.9m (2014: £1.0m).
 • Adjusted EBITDA* up 145% to £2.7m (2014: £1.1m).
 • Statutory profit before tax as reported up 243% 
to £1.6m (2014: £0.5m).
 • Cash £4.7m and no debt as at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £4.7m and no debt), with net operating cash 
inflow £3.2m (2014: £3.1m).
 • Continuing high level of investment in product 
innovation and building sales distribution globally 
to continue to grow recurring revenues strongly . 
 • Further new and existing CTC customer wins in Q1 2016, 
including a significant new services order for 2016 from 
an existing major UK clearing bank customer .
 • Management confident about the prospects for 
the Group.
*  Adjusted EBITDA refers to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted to add 
back share-based payment charges and exceptional items
Strategy and key performance indicators page 10
Highlights Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 02
At a glance
Our aim is to establish Clareti Transaction Control (“CTC”) as the leading 
enterprise data integrity platform, giving our customers the control and 
certainty they need in a world awash with real-time streaming data.
Our Clareti products
CTC was originally designed as a disruptive product to 
address the global matching and reconciliation market 
dominated by inflexible legacy products and poorly 
governed user-developed applications. CTC is powered 
by a versatile high performance transaction matching 
engine able to handle all data types, and uses modern 
in-memory data grid technology to achieve the extreme 
scalability and real-time processing required by many 
global customers. Even in extremely high volume, low 
latency, environments with complex unstructured data 
flows, CTC is proven to give operational certainty 
to organisations conducting millions of transactions per 
hour in fast-moving markets. Functionality to provide 
rapid, user-driven, on-boarding along with powerful 
matching algorithms, flexible workflow and reporting 
complete a best-in-class solution. 
With ongoing investment from the Group, and successful 
customer implementations, CTC has now evolved into 
a full platform capable of providing real-time transaction 
control and enterprise data integrity across a growing 
set of use cases. Our current portfolio of Clareti business 
applications includes CTC Accounts Receivable 
Management for automating matching, reconciliation 
and allocation to reduce the corporate order-to-cash cycle, 
CTC Intersystems for controlling intra and inter-company 
trades, CTC OTC Derivatives for operational control 
of over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, 
and CTC Transition Management for integrity assurance 
during systems change and data migration. We also offer 
a full portfolio of complementary consulting services 
and 24/7 global support, and all our products are cloud 
ready and available on our Clareti-as-a-Service platform.
Our global reach
New York
Kuala Lumpur
Singapore
Sydney
Melbourne
Office locations
Client locations
London
Bristol
Southampton Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 03
Our CTC story so far
Our accreditations
Our solution focus
Our business is about solving problems for customers and we 
focus in the following areas:
“ Gresham is well placed to capitalise on the opportunity with 
their CTC enterprise platform. They have a notably high ranking 
for a new entrant into the RiskTech100
®
 for 2016 achieving 
particularly strong scores for innovation, organisational strength 
and customer satisfaction.”
Managing Partner, Chartis Research
Internal Risk Control
Data integrity assurance for managing 
operational and conduct risks, with data 
consolidated into a single, proven platform 
enabling rapid identification and reporting 
of financial losses and exceptions.
Regulatory Compliance
Achieving and evidencing compliance 
with ever-increasing regulatory requirements 
through automated reporting, real-time 
visibility, and the flexibility to adapt to 
future regulatory demands.
Financial Control
Full integrity and real-time financial control 
from intraday to period end to improve 
business processes and ensure joined-up 
financial control and accurate reporting.
White Label
Enabling customers to offer Clareti-based data 
integrity applications as solutions under their own 
brand to enhance their service offering, secure 
additional revenues and build stronger and 
more durable relationships with their customers.
Transition Management
Robust data integrity controls to mitigate 
risks inherent in business transition or system 
migration projects.
2010
 • CTC development commences in Bristol, UK
2011
 • First CTC contract win with APAC 
transaction bank
2012
 • First customers live on CTC
 • Acceleration of investment in CTC sales 
and development
2013
 • Multiple CTC contract wins including 
two Tier 1 banks
 • Globalisation of business functions 
to support CTC-led growth
 • New Y ork and Singapore sales offices open
2014
 • First US CTC contract signed
 • Further investments in CTC sales 
and development
 • CTC named “Best Reconciliation Solution” 
at FTF Innovation Awards 2014
2015
 • Eleven CTC contract wins across EMEA, 
APAC and the US
 • CTC retains “Best Reconciliation Solution” 
at FTF Innovation Awards 2015 and gains 
PCI-DSS accreditation
 • CTC becomes Gresham’ s best-selling product
 • Clareti applications portfolio and 
Clareti-as-a-Service cloud offering introduced Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 04
Chairman’s statement
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present this Annual Report which records a very 
successful 2015 for the Group on a number of fronts.
Overview
Gresham continued its good progress in executing on key strategic 
objectives, and I am pleased to report 16% top-line growth with total 
revenues for the Group rising to £14.8m for the year. Importantly, the 
additional revenues are generated by high margin CTC software sales, 
which has resulted in strong growth in underlying profitability and an 
associated sharp increase in recurring revenues. This provides a solid 
platform for continued and profitable growth.
During the year an important milestone was reached when CTC 
became the Group’s best-selling software product with a number 
of major new clients adopting CTC as their strategic platform for 
ensuring the integrity of their data and transaction processing. 
Regulatory compliance, internal risk management and control were 
the key business drivers of this success, which we expect will continue 
into 2016 and beyond. To capitalise on this opportunity the Company 
is now extending its Clareti portfolio and is building a series of applications 
that use the CTC platform to meet specific customer business requirements. 
The Company has also developed and deployed a cloud-based service 
offering which allows our customers to utilise the CTC software through 
a Gresham managed service. This investment will allow us to grow our 
existing customer base and to attract new customers from numerous 
market segments. We have also invested and will continue to invest 
in our sales and marketing resources to fulfil demand globally.
Shareholders will have noted our announcements in 2015 regarding 
CTC contract wins in the US and in Asia. I am particularly pleased 
with these wins as they demonstrate the good progress the Group has 
made in expanding CTC adoption globally. The US and Asia markets 
have the potential for much higher growth and the Board continues to 
support the ongoing investments in direct sales resources, in addition 
to forming strategic alliances to further expand distribution capacity. 
Our sales success to date has resulted in a high quality referenceable 
customer base from which we can grow sales through account expansion 
whilst attracting new customers with our increasing portfolio of offerings. 
With our continued investment in the Clareti platform and sales and 
marketing expansion, I anticipate further improvement in our market 
position as we have a proven product addressing a growing demand 
for transparency and integrity over risk and financial data processing.
In addition to the contribution of CTC, our partner solutions and our 
legacy software businesses continue to provide valuable contributions to 
earnings through mainly recurring revenues representing lower risk revenue 
in the near to medium term. As previously highlighted these legacy 
revenues are in long-term decline and are being replaced by the 
growing higher margin revenues from our Clareti portfolio of products.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
Summary
 • Strong top-line growth generated 
by high margin CTC software sales.
 • Regulatory compliance, internal risk 
management and control requirements 
are key business drivers.
 • CEO succession plan completed with a 
view to capitalising on market opportunity .
 • Ongoing investments in direct sales resources, 
in addition to forming strategic alliances. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 05
Dividend
As reported last year, we received court approval in March 2015 
to make the necessary changes to our capital structure, through 
cancellation of the share premium account, such that the Company 
now has the ability to pay dividends and make other returns of capital 
when the Board considers it appropriate and desirable to do so. As a 
Board we are committed to commencing a progressive dividend when 
the circumstances are deemed to be appropriate. Whilst our priority 
remains to reinvest cash generated in 2016 into the business to support 
our strategic aims, as a Board we have a firm intention to review the 
position subsequent to that and consider declaring a maiden dividend 
in respect of financial year 2017 .
Board changes
As stated in last year’s Annual Report and in subsequent announcements, 
we welcomed Ian Manocha as our new Chief Executive on 1 June 2015 
to help us capitalise on the significant market opportunity that we are 
seeing to accelerate CTC growth and to realise our vision of becoming 
a market leader in real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity 
solutions. I am delighted to be working with Ian as we execute and extend 
our strategy for the ongoing development of the Group. Ian succeeds 
Chris Errington, who remains on the Board as a Non-Executive Director. 
Hamish Purdey left the Board in January 2015.
Outlook
The Gresham organisation and its employees are fully aligned to growing 
profitable revenue from CTC sales globally. I remain confident that our 
investments in sales, marketing and client support provide the platform 
to deliver shareholder value from our ongoing investment in CTC.
I would like to thank the management and staff for their continued support 
and resolve to achieve success in our pursuit of market leadership in 
real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
7 March 2016
“ The Gresham organisation 
and its employees are fully 
aligned to growing profitable 
revenue from CTC sales 
globally. I remain confident 
that our investments in sales, 
marketing and client support 
provide the platform to 
deliver shareholder value 
from our ongoing investment 
in CTC.”
Corporate governance page 19 Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 06
CEO’s statement
Dear shareholder,
This is my first report to you as Chief Executive and I am pleased to 
report a positive year of progress aligned with the strategic plan set 
out by the Board. We delivered 212% CTC software revenue growth 
driven by high quality new customer wins as well as extensions in 
the existing CTC subscriber base and implementation successes. 
We enhanced our portfolio of offerings with innovative new products, 
including our cloud platform Clareti-as-a-Service (“CaaS”), and we 
further strengthened the global organisation.
Objectives and strategy
Our objective is to be recognised as a leading financial technology 
provider focused on enterprise data integrity and transaction control 
solutions that deliver sustained profitable growth for the Group and build 
shareholder value. 
To achieve our long-term objective, we are following a strategic plan 
focused originally on CTC and now, more broadly , on the Clareti portfolio. 
The Group regards the plan to streamline and strengthen our legacy 
business (the general strategic plan referred to in previous Annual Financial 
Reports) as largely complete with the remaining EDT, VME and other 
legacy lower margin revenues now being managed efficiently in light 
of the inevitable run off in the medium to long term.
The strategy has further matured as the opportunity to build on CTC’s 
success has unfolded positively. We plan to:
 • focus the significant majority of our product investment and sales 
efforts on CTC, our flagship product; 
 • establish CTC as the enterprise data integrity platform “category 
leader” in a world awash with real-time streaming data; 
 • leverage the Clareti platform and CaaS to bring new “Control” 
applications to market;
 • build a high margin, recurring revenue stream based on Clareti 
licence sales, subscriptions and cloud services; and
 • create a sustainable global business to enable Clareti-led growth 
and exceptional rates of customer loyalty.
Operational performance
It is pleasing to report high quality CTC wins in all our target 
geographic markets of UK and Europe, Asia Pacific and the US. 
New customer wins were represented across our targeted financial 
services industry sub-segments including insurance, banking and 
capital markets, payments, clearing and settlements. Use cases were 
also in line with our plan, namely financial and risk control, regulatory 
compliance and transition management. A full review of the year’s 
operational performance is included in the Operational Review.
People
Since joining Gresham in June 2015, I have been very impressed with 
the openness, the depth of knowledge and the expertise that exists 
across the business, and it is a pleasure to be working in such a positive 
and constructive environment.
We recognise that people are key to our ability to deliver on our 
strategic plans. We need the right level of expertise across all functions 
of the business in order to grow the business successfully, innovate 
and expand our offerings, and delight our customers on a global basis. 
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive Officer
Summary
 • CTC software revenue up 212% driven by 
high quality customer wins in all our target 
geographic markets.
 • CTC offering enhanced with the launch 
of new products and Clareti-as-a-Service 
cloud platform.
 • Solution focus will continue to be risk, 
regulatory and financial control, as well 
as transition management and white label.
 • New sales will target capital markets 
institutions and global transaction banks. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 07
This philosophy is reflected in our business model, and I have reported 
in the Operational Review on some of the steps we have implemented 
in 2015 to help our people achieve their potential at Gresham.
Outlook and opportunity
We have entered 2016 with a strong CTC annuity stream and related 
professional services backlog. In the first quarter of 2016 so far, we have 
signed a significant professional services extension with the Tier 1 bank 
we won in the last quarter of 2015, and we have also achieved a new CTC 
client win in the US, which represents our second asset management 
client and our first CaaS client in North America.
Our solution focus will continue to be risk, regulatory and financial 
control as well as transition management and white label. Our 2016 
new sales focus will be weighted towards two primary initiatives:
Firstly, we will target capital markets clients where risk and regulatory 
driven data integrity challenges are a good fit for CTC. Risk IT spending 
is rising as financial institutions invest to comply with post-global crisis 
regulations such as Basel III and associated principles such as the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) 239 Principles for Effective 
Risk Data Aggregation & Reporting. According to research published 
by Chartis in January 2016, Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting alone 
is a market valued at $4.67bn in new risk IT spend. The Group is targeting 
Tier 1 bank investment programmes for improved enterprise-wide data 
collection, quality and risk data governance procedures. Tier 1s are 
expected to spend the most on new initiatives in 2016 ($1.93bn); 
Tier 2s $1bn; and Tier 3s $1.7bn.
Secondly, we are targeting global transaction banks with our 
best-in-class Accounts Receivable Management solution to sell to 
their corporates. At a time when traditional transaction services are 
facing severe competition and a rapidly changing payment landscape, 
banks need to differentiate to win, retain and grow corporate accounts. 
Our white label platform enables banks to deliver enhanced cash 
management and analytic based products extremely rapidly and at 
a far lower cost than building in house. The solution is proven to help 
banks win new clients, and increase deposits driving net interest income.
We expect to grow recurring revenue with existing direct CTC customers 
and through our white label channel partners who are gaining momentum 
with their own client wins. We are confident that CaaS, our cloud platform, 
and managed services will feature strongly in our new business wins 
and further enhance recurring revenue streams. As expected, the Group’s 
legacy licence base is gradually declining and we have factored this 
into our financial model.
We are confident that our strategy to achieve sustainable long-term 
profitable growth and shareholder value based on CTC, and now the 
Clareti portfolio, is on track. There is a positive confidence and focused 
sense of purpose throughout the Gresham team and we are all excited 
about the potential to create a global leader in the enterprise data 
integrity market.
Thank you for your ongoing support.
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
7 March 2016
“ In a world awash with  
real-time streaming data, we 
want to be the first company 
clients turn to when they 
need to be in control.” Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 08
Business model
Reinvest Shareholder value
Sales channels
Direct sales
Indirect sales
Delivering innovative technology and services is fundamental to 
our solution offering. We actively review technical and business 
developments in our markets with a view to taking advantage of the 
available opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive 
position, and we foster a culture of innovation across all our 
business functions.
We continue to develop the Clareti platform and application 
portfolio with an agile development approach, delivering new 
functionality for existing and emerging markets, whilst keeping 
a balance between development and sales to ensure we deliver 
committed customer requirements. We remain committed to 
maintaining our ongoing high levels of investment in product 
development to maintain and extend our competitive position.
From our Innovation Labs in Bristol, we have extended the core 
CTC platform and have launched, and will continue to launch, 
new applications. Our team is evolving into one of the UK’s 
most respected financial technology research and development 
centres, with an established and scalable process for building 
innovative, high quality software products. 
We have streamlined our business over recent years and we enter 
2016 with a global line of business functions supported by global 
IT systems and common processes across all functional areas, 
including sales and marketing and customer support, as well as 
business support and administrative functions such as IT, finance, 
legal and HR.
Our professional services organisation operates from four global 
hubs, and Centres of Excellence are being established to ensure 
all customers can draw upon the deep expertise that exists 
across the Group in solutions areas such as Accounts Receivable 
Management, or technical skills such as architecture and design. 
Our cloud delivery model is global with 24/7 support from our 
hubs as well as extended hours support from our Bristol 
Innovation Labs.
Our global business platform and robust business processes are 
led by a competent management team and we are confident that 
the right foundations are in place that will enable the Group to 
scale further in line with our strategic plan.
Technology innovation Global business platform
Revenue
Licensing and subscriptions
Usage
Services
Clareti
People
Market
Technology
Platform
We develop and sell innovative, software-based, financial technology 
solutions that generate licence, support and maintenance, subscription, 
and services revenues for the Group. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 09
We recognise that people are key to our ability to deliver on 
our strategic plans. We need the right level of expertise across 
all functions of the business in order to grow the business 
successfully, innovate and expand our offerings, and delight 
our customers on a global basis.
Our hiring model is based on a creating an agile, highly motivated 
and collaborative international workforce. Our strength comes from 
collaboration between seasoned professionals with deep client 
industry experience and some of the brightest young technology 
talent on the market. We operate a graduate intake and apprenticeship 
programme to bring promising new colleagues into the business, 
and we also hire more experienced staff with exceptional skills 
sets where required to support our strategic objectives. We also 
“hire for attitude” placing great importance on our values, effective 
team working, and on our focus on customer success. 
Retaining people and allowing them to fulfil their potential 
is crucial. We seek to achieve high levels of engagement 
and satisfaction across all business functions, and to that end 
we are participating in the Great Place to Work
®
 programme to 
provide a mechanism for continuous feedback and improvement. 
Key to the successful achievement of our strategic aims is 
our ability to be recognised as a leader in our chosen markets, 
and the pace at which we can respond and react to changing 
market requirements. 
Since launching CTC as an innovative matching and reconciliation 
solution, we have recognised the platform characteristics that CTC 
provides and we have since extended the core platform to support 
the launch of a series of business applications, giving us greater 
flexibility to satisfy existing and new markets without significant 
new investment.
We analyse the changing competitive pressures, regulatory 
landscape and risk management requirements affecting our target 
market, and we continually review the options and opportunities 
available to us to rapidly and cost-effectively address them in order 
to enhance our solutions in support of profitable growth. Our team 
includes experts in their respective fields and we engage strongly 
in providing thought leadership through our marketing activities, 
designed to enhance Gresham’s profile in our chosen markets. 
People Market
How we earn revenue
Licensing and subscriptions
The software element of any solution is licensed to the customer 
and a fee is payable either upfront (perpetual licence or term licence) 
or under a subscription “pay as you go” arrangement (recurring licence 
payments). Our preferred business model is to secure and retain recurring 
revenue streams because these provide high visibility of revenues going 
into future years. Clareti software is our route to building these valuable 
recurring, high margin, revenues over the long term based on our own 
intellectual property.
Wherever possible we sign contracts on a subscription basis, 
combining licensing and support and maintenance, typically with 
an initial term of at least three years, with automatic continuation 
at the end of that period. Both subscription fees and support 
and maintenance fees tend to be payable annually in advance. 
Usage
Software licences typically include scope of use clauses that ensure 
the fee payable is appropriately aligned to the value being received by 
the customer, with fees scaling for higher usage. Examples of metrics 
used for this scaling include the number of transactions being controlled 
by the software, number of users, number of reconciliations being 
managed, or other measurable criteria. Fees from usage-based 
arrangements tend to be payable quarterly in arrears prior to folding 
into the normal pattern for established usage of annually in advance. 
We often also limit licence grants to a specific business function or defined 
project use in order to secure further growth in fees as usage expands 
across an enterprise. We ensure that all such scaling arrangements are 
transparent, fair and fully understood by the customer. 
Services
The professional services element of any sale is typically charged on 
a time and materials basis based on an agreed scope of engagement, 
payable monthly in arrears. In certain circumstances, where scope and 
risk are well understood, we will engage on a fixed price basis and we 
typically charge based on successful completion of the necessary 
contract conditions and project milestones. Where possible, we secure 
subscription-based services through a managed service offering, which 
provides greater certainty of timing, scope and revenues from professional 
services versus the traditional time and materials basis of charging. 
Sales channels
Direct sales
We have established a global team of experienced and well respected 
sales professionals who sell direct to customers. These direct sales 
efforts are focused on geographic locations where we have a presence, 
to maximise our efficiency and effectiveness in the sales process. We also 
consider working with customers in new locations where the business 
case makes sense. 
Indirect sales
We also make use of indirect sales channels to access a larger 
addressable market and reach into new locations where we do not 
have a presence. At present, these indirect channels are primarily 
financial services providers that white label our products for the 
purposes of enhancing their own offering to their customers, and 
which deliver click fees or other types of revenues to us based on 
their customer take-up. As CTC becomes more established, we are 
also focusing on building a network of consulting partners in order 
to broaden our reach and scale our revenues.  Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 10
Strategy and key performance indicators
In 2015 we continued to focus our investments 
on CTC, both at a technology level and through 
recruitment into strategic positions. We added sales 
and marketing expertise in London and New York, 
and executed several marketing campaigns, all 
designed to build our CTC pipeline and order book 
going into 2016. CTC is making an ever-increasing 
contribution to the overall performance of the 
Group and in 2015 CTC became the Company’s 
best-selling product.
We are now organised within an efficient global 
operating model with the alignment of service lines 
across the Group. We have developed processes 
and invested in new technology designed to allow 
us to collaborate more efficiently across our locations 
in support of our ongoing efforts to market, sell, 
deliver and support Clareti products.
To achieve our objective, we are executing 
a strategic plan built around developing, 
selling and supporting our market-leading 
software platform, CTC. Key to our strategic 
plan is winning and retaining recurring revenue 
annuity streams from the sale of our software 
solutions and the provision of subscription-based 
services. Recurring revenues provide high 
visibility of revenues for future years and 
CTC provides the Group with access to an 
addressable and growing market in which 
to win recurring revenues at high margin. 
In addition our strategic plan includes 
remaining committed to retaining other, 
non-Clareti strategic revenues to keep the 
Group in a strong financial and operational 
position and support Clareti-led growth.
We regularly review progress towards 
our overall objective by reference to strategic 
plan execution, business model, KPIs, the 
market and changes to risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Group. Where necessary, 
we change, modify or refine our plans 
in the pursuit of our long-term objective.
Achievements in 2015 Achievements in 2015
We are planning to continue investing in areas that 
directly enhance the market appeal for CTC, and to 
build our capacity to sell and deliver more quickly 
and effectively, having due regard to the likely 
quantum and timing of returns.
Priorities for 2016
We believe our global business is well positioned 
to absorb greater volume but we will continue 
to monitor resourcing requirements and identify 
technology improvements that can help us support 
larger scale without increasing costs linearly.
Priorities for 2016
Concentrate our 
investment and sales 
efforts on CTC
Create a sustainable 
global business in 
support of Clareti-led 
volume growth
1 2
We delivered strong growth this year in both CTC 
revenue and CTC recurring revenues.
We launched our Clareti-as-a-Service cloud 
subscription service in the year, which provides 
us with an additional deployment model for CTC 
and other Clareti platform applications.
We have grown our sales and marketing capacities 
to build on this momentum into 2016.
The Clareti technology that underlies our 
CTC-based products provides a powerful, 
multi-purpose platform on which to build other 
applications in the data integrity space. We are 
building a leadership position in a new category 
of enterprise data integrity, leveraging our Clareti 
technology platform, and have begun formulating 
plans to launch a portfolio of Clareti-based applications 
to address new markets and specific business needs.
We have continued to retain and grow revenues 
non-CTC customers. These revenues are derived 
from a mix of partner products that we resell, services 
and our own legacy products, all of which are of 
strategic importance to the Group and will remain 
so until CTC and other Clareti revenues constitute 
the majority proportion of Group revenues.
Achievements in 2015 Achievements in 2015 Achievements in 2015
We currently remain reliant on licence sales to achieve 
short-term financial objectives but intend to continue 
our transition to being subscription dominated. 
We will continue our existing strategy using direct 
and channel sales in pursuit of strong growth in 
both recurring and non-recurring CTC revenues.
Priorities for 2016
We are looking to build new revenue streams in 
the enterprise data integrity space. We will leverage 
our Clareti platform and our global operating model 
to deliver new solutions, with a focus on high margin, 
subscription-based revenues.
Priorities for 2016
We will continue to work closely with these 
customers, providing service and support 
enhancements derived from our CTC investments, 
whilst managing overheads carefully and delivering 
more efficiencies where possible.
Priorities for 2016
Grow CTC revenues 
and build a new high 
margin recurring CTC 
revenue stream
Leverage our Clareti 
technology platform 
to drive new high 
margin revenues
Retain and grow other 
strategic revenues
3 4 5
Our long-term objective is to establish Gresham as a market leader in 
real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity solutions in order 
to drive profitable growth and build shareholder value. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 11
Clareti revenue Revenue
The Clareti revenue KPI provides 
a measure of our progress in the 
overall execution of the Group’s 
Clareti-led growth strategy. Clareti 
revenue is high margin and delivers 
a strong contribution to profitability.
This KPI is an important component 
of our overall strategy as we pursue 
long-term, high margin revenue to 
provide high visibility of revenue into 
future years and a basis from which 
to drive profitable growth.
This measure constitutes a high 
level indicator of Group performance. 
In particular it recognises the continued 
importance to the Group of retaining 
and growing non-Clareti revenues.
This KPI provides a measure 
of the underlying performance of the 
Group’s business on a run-rate basis, 
which is an indicator of the level 
of visibility of all revenues into future 
years and in particular it takes into 
account the underlying strength 
of non-Clareti revenue.
Description   
Link to strategy   
1 1 2 3 4 5
Clareti revenue
£5.3m
3.5
2014
5.3
2015
Clareti recurring revenue
£1.9m
1.0
2014
1.9
2015
Total revenue
£14.8m
12.8
2014
14.8
2015
Total recurring revenue
£7.8m
6.5
2014
7.8
2015
4 2 1 3 5 4 2 1 3 4 5 2 3 5
Key performance indicators (“KPIs”)
The Group’s KPIs have been selected as the most appropriate measures of strategy execution and progress towards achievement 
of our overall objective.
EBITDA/total revenue Earnings
In addition to adjusted EBITDA, 
this earnings-based KPI provides 
a further measure of our performance 
in delivering profitable growth in the 
year at a statutory reporting level.
This earnings-based KPI 
provides a measure of our 
progress towards delivering 
profitable growth. Adjustments are 
made for share-based payment 
charges and exceptional items.
This measures our core profitability 
by presenting earnings in the context 
of revenues. We believe a target ratio 
of 30% or more provides a good 
benchmark measure of return for a 
product-based software company.
Description  
Link to strategy  
1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 3 4 4 4 5 5 5
Profit before tax
£1.6m
0.5
2014
1.6
2015
Adjusted EBITDA
£2.7m
1.1
2014
2.7
2015
Adjusted EBITDA/
total revenue
18%
9
2014
18
2015 Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 12
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk management
The Board recognises that there are a number of risk factors that have the potential to adversely affect the Group’s execution of its strategic plan and, 
more generally, the Group’s operations, its financial performance or the value of its equities. The Board monitors the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems and has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk management and 
internal control, with the assistance of the audit committee principally. In discharging its duties, the Board receives a monthly report on risk from 
the Executive Directors and has a standing agenda item to monitor and discuss the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group together with 
actions being taken to mitigate them and future potential items for consideration. Please see page 25 for a report on the Board’s review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. A description of those risks and an explanation of how they are being managed or mitigated is set out below.
Failure to grow Clareti revenues and build a new high margin recurring Clareti revenue stream
Impact on Group Assessment of change in risk during year Mitigation of risk
Central to our strategic plan is the growth 
of CTC and other Clareti revenues, along 
with a business model for Clareti recurring 
revenue growth.
Earnings-related growth follows directly 
from revenue growth.
Failure to secure Clareti revenue and 
recurring revenue growth would directly 
impact our achievement of overall objectives 
or lengthen the period taken to achieve them. 
Specifically , failure to close new Clareti contracts 
early enough in the year would jeopardise our 
ability to deliver the implementations and 
recognise the associated revenues in the year.
A consecutive year of achieving more than 
ten new CTC customer wins in the year further 
validates the product in our market and reduces 
the overall risk of failure. An increasing  
Clareti customer base also provides further 
opportunities for Clareti upsells and cross-sells.
Whilst we continue to see strong market demand 
for Clareti solutions, the risks associated with 
timing, type, mix and quantum of revenues that 
we are able to achieve from Clareti products 
remain unchanged as these factors are largely 
driven by the customers’ requirements and 
budgeting processes. We continue to see 
long sales cycles, particularly for larger and 
more complex deals which typically require 
approvals from multiple internal committees 
and budget holders, presenting a significant 
ongoing risk to short-term KPIs. 
We have strengthened our CTC sales 
and marketing operations in order to build 
greater pipeline visibility and grow CTC 
revenues faster.
We have launched our cloud-based 
Clareti offering in the year, which provides 
a faster deployment model for customers 
and subscription-based licensing and 
services. We are also expanding our 
portfolio of Clareti-based products to 
address new business uses whilst using 
the same platform and infrastructure.
We continue to make planned investments 
in our target geographies and markets to 
maximise our chances of short-term success 
through sales.
We maintain our competitive advantage 
by delighting our customers and keeping 
our products innovative, appealing and 
responsive to market demand.
Development and sales of Clareti products become misaligned
Impact on Group Assessment of change in risk during year Mitigation of risk
Ensuring that our investments in product 
development and innovation remain driven 
by demand in our target markets, and ensuring 
that we are able to deliver on development 
commitments, is central to our ability to 
successfully sell and grow CTC and other 
Clareti products. 
Acceleration of specific roadmap items in 
respect of specific customer requests could 
place undue pressure on the development 
team, compromising service quality and/or 
the applicability of the investment to the 
wider market. This could in turn impact our 
ability to win and retain customers, impacting 
our strategic plans for revenue growth.
We are pursuing a path of ongoing 
product innovation in CTC and other Clareti 
products, and in parallel we are continuing 
to invest in growing our sales and marketing 
capabilities as part of our ongoing objectives. 
Our growing CTC customer base also means 
that we are receiving greater volumes 
of enhancement requests.
This presents greater risks of misalignment 
between sales opportunity and development 
priorities and it is important to ensure that 
alignment and mitigation plans are in place 
and active, primarily around executive review 
through regular product board meetings 
and also through enhanced internal 
processes and communications.
We continue to review our development 
resource to ensure we have sufficient capacity 
whilst we grow CTC and other Clareti sales.
Communication lines between sales, 
development and the wider management 
team remain strong and are formalised in 
regular executive product board meetings 
to monitor risks and resolve issues. 
Robust plan review and alignment processes 
are in place to mitigate risks associated with 
ongoing sales, development, implementation 
and support activities, involving the Group’s 
senior management team. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 13
Over-reliance on key customers
Impact on Group Assessment of change in risk during year Mitigation of risk
We currently have a small number of 
customers considered key to the Group 
as they individually account for a significant 
proportion of Group revenues.
The loss of any one key customer would 
have a material impact on our future revenues 
and earnings, and may also have adverse 
reputational implications.
Retaining and growing revenues is critical 
to our achievement of overall objectives. 
Earnings would be directly affected by a 
reduction in revenue.
The ongoing growth in our overall customer 
base for CTC and other Clareti products dilutes 
the impact of any individual customer loss, 
thus reducing the overall risks associated 
with over-reliance on key customers.
Non-financial implications such as reputational 
damage and/or lack of referenceability 
following a key customer loss remain 
potentially damaging.
Overall these risks remain material at present 
but we believe they are likely to become less 
significant in future years as the product matures, 
as we increase our Clareti customer base 
and grow associated revenues.
Revenue from our key customers comprises 
a growing recurring revenue element which 
is more predictable than other revenue streams 
and provides an intrinsic mitigation to the risk 
of loss. We maintain close dialogue with our 
key customers to promote strong relationships 
and mitigate termination risks.
Further, revenues from our two channel 
partner banks, each of which is considered 
a key customer and accounts for a significant 
proportion of the Group’s recurring revenue 
stream, are tied to product use by their end 
customers meaning that discontinuing use of 
our products is a complex and time-consuming 
process, allowing time for mitigation steps 
to be taken.
Significant decline in non-Clareti revenues
Impact on Group Assessment of change in risk during year Mitigation of risk
While Clareti revenues are building we remain 
reliant on revenues from non-Clareti solutions. 
Retaining non-Clareti revenues is critical to our 
achievement of overall objectives.
Revenues from our legacy VME and EDT 
products, which provide healthy cashflow to 
the Group, are in long-term decline. In addition 
we have limited ability to sustain and grow 
revenues generated from partner products.
Earnings are directly affected by a reduction 
in non-Clareti revenue and in particular legacy 
products which are generally high margin.
As we continue to grow Clareti revenues, our 
reliance on non-Clareti revenues is gradually 
reducing. We have seen revenues from our 
legacy EDT and VME products continue to 
decline as customers migrate, albeit slowly, 
to new hardware infrastructures.
Revenues from our partner solutions have 
seen modest growth in recent years but we 
anticipate this growth flattening and beginning 
to reverse in the medium term, which we have 
reflected in our financial forecasting. The timing 
and rate of the decline remains uncertain and 
there is a risk that an accelerated decline would 
affect our short-term KPIs.
Revenues from non-Clareti solutions are 
spread across a range of products, geographies 
and customers, providing mitigation of large 
scale declines within a short period of time.
Our financial forecasting assumes levels of 
attrition in non-Clareti revenues based on recent 
experience and prudent assumptions as to how 
this trend will continue in future periods.
Adequacy of funding/liquidity
Impact on Group Assessment of change in risk during year Mitigation of risk
Our strategic plans involve investment 
in development, sales and infrastructure 
to support our Clareti products and solutions, 
together with a relatively rapid growth 
in Clareti revenues.
It is critical that we have adequate funding for 
the investments required whilst also ensuring 
that revenue growth is supported by adequate 
working capital buffers.
The growing level of Clareti revenues 
associated with an expanding Clareti 
customer base provided more visibility 
over future Clareti revenues, allowing 
us to better manage our funding.
We believe that the working capital risk 
will persist as we grow our Clareti revenues 
and in the long term reach a steady state.
We carefully monitor cashflows and liquidity 
to ensure we have adequate funding to meet 
the needs of our business. 
The CFO receives a daily cashflow report, 
and the Board in turn receives a monthly 
cashflow report from the CFO.
Further information concerning how we monitor 
our cashflows and liquidity can be found in the 
Financial Review.
Viability statement
The Directors confirm that they have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three year period commencing 1 January 2016 and that they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for that period. The Directors have 
selected a period of three years as they consider this to be a reasonable and appropriate duration on which to make the assessment, based on the 
fact that the Group operates rolling financial projections which extend for the current and two subsequent financial years, and the Directors’ evaluation 
of the forward-looking order book for Clareti revenues with Clareti contracts typically being signed for three year minimum contract terms, balanced 
against the likely attrition rate of non-Clareti revenues. In making this statement, the Directors have considered the Group’s current position and the potential 
impact of the principal risks and uncertainties described above on the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, taking account 
of severe but reasonable scenarios and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions, and have performed stress test analysis based on likely outcomes. Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 14
Operational review
Gathering CTC momentum
During 2015, we saw eleven new CTC customers contributing to Group 
revenues for the first time. New customer wins were represented across 
our targeted financial services industry sub-segments including insurance, 
banking and capital markets, payments, clearing and settlements. Use 
cases were also in line with our plan, namely financial and risk control, 
regulatory compliance and transition management. 
We have invested strongly in direct sales and marketing resources 
in the year, in addition to forming strategic alliances to further expand 
distribution capability, and it was pleasing to see high quality wins 
in all our target geographic markets of UK and Europe, Asia Pacific 
and the US. 
Sales progress in UK and Europe 
Three new CTC clients started their subscriptions in the first quarter 
of 2015, including one of the world’s leading clearers of derivatives, 
cash securities, OTCs and other financial instruments, that is deploying 
CTC for real-time matching and reconciliation of exchange traded 
derivatives and intersystem transactions.
One of the world’s leading legal services businesses contracted to use 
CTC for the matching and reconciliation of its Oracle record of payment 
transactions with third party statements from around the world.
A major European investment bank selected CTC to assist with a high 
profile regulatory reporting and compliance project which was successfully 
completed on time, and for which CTC was used to validate the bank’s 
transaction data against specific Approved Reporting Mechanism formats 
and rules prior to being reported. Supervisory authorities are putting 
much greater emphasis on the accuracy and completeness of risk and 
financial data and our data integrity platform has unique capabilities 
that enable institutions to confirm that they are reporting correctly.
One of the largest global insurance and reinsurance brokers, and 
leading global risk adviser, selected CTC to control its inter-company 
trading between international offices using disparate systems, currencies, 
languages, formats and reporting methods. They intend to further expand 
the use of the technology to control broker and bureau transactions. 
The use of CTC workflow has transformed hitherto manual processes 
and CTC also automates the generation of key reports required for 
regulatory purposes as well as control of settlement and collections.
A leading provider of corporate employee equity and non-equity plan 
administration services with a client base across Europe and Asia contracted 
to use CTC for replacement of manual and spreadsheet-based controls 
and reconciliations in its securities and cash accounts. CTC is expected 
to become the client’s standard transaction control platform deployed 
across its international businesses.
In the fourth quarter, one of the UK’s largest banks adopted CTC 
Transition Management in its digital transformation programme 
for data integrity assurance during business change. As a new “key 
customer” , this account has significant growth potential and we are 
already seeing incremental opportunities come into our pipeline. 
A key customer is an account which has potential to generate revenues 
greater than £3m over five years.
Finally, Europe’s leading real estate debt specialists selected 
Gresham to partner with them to build a new application based on 
Clareti-as-a-Service that will enable them to disrupt the third party loan 
servicing market, and for Gresham to target the global lending systems 
market with an innovative cloud solution. We are positive about the 
potential to sell a broader loan control offering into financial institutions 
that are also a key market for our transaction control solutions.
Aside from CTC, as noted by your Chairman we saw increased revenues 
from our UK cash management clients, although we do not expect that 
trend to continue in the medium term. It was therefore encouraging to 
see a consistent beat rate of new CTC UK and European sales closing 
throughout the year.
Sales progress in the US 
Our investment in a New York office in 2014 has started to bear fruit. 
Our first US client, a major financial services organisation, which selected 
CTC as a white labelled matching and reconciliation offering to its asset 
management clients, made its first contribution to Group revenues.
In June we signed a leading North America based provider of solutions 
for the pre-paid products market to use CTC to control and reconcile 
payment transaction data within its settlement operations and accounting 
functions. This win in the payments arena underlines the versatility 
and power of the Clareti platform to adapt across multiple industries. 
The platform’s PCI-DSS accreditation was instrumental in giving the 
client confidence in using CTC to handle payment card data.
A New Y ork based asset manager became our third client in North America 
adopting CTC to perform cash, position and trade transaction control 
to underpin its internal risk control processes. As a global specialist in 
alternative risk exposures, the business is growing rapidly and it intends 
to use CTC to deliver all internal data validation checks across current 
and future business lines in line with our enterprise data integrity vision.
During the year we strengthened the sales team, expanded our 
New York presence and initiated a plan to move our Denver support 
operations into New York to gain scale on the East Coast closer to our 
target financial services community. We regard success in the US and 
Canada financial markets as important for the Group’s future and 2015 
results represent very good progress.
Sales progress in Asia Pacific
We continue to build on our long-established presence in Australia 
and our more recent investment in Singapore to target the Asian 
financial services market. We have now established dedicated sales 
teams in each location alongside our delivery hubs and are positive 
about the potential in the region.
Through 2015 we saw steady account growth in our Australian business 
as client usage of CTC increased. Our 2013 customer win of white labelled 
Accounts Receivable Management (“ARM”) in Singapore also increased 
its investment, and is working collaboratively with us to extend the 
ARM offering even further ahead of competitive alternatives.
Alongside existing customer growth, it was especially pleasing to 
win a second client in Singapore. The Asia operation of a leading global 
insurance and asset management provider selected CTC for financial 
control and was able to go live with its first controls within just a few weeks. 
CTC is used to provide control and integrity of Nostro Bank Accounts, 
reconciling high value payments from customers against a number of 
internal policy ledger systems. Prior to implementing CTC, these processes 
were managed using a combination of manual checks and spreadsheets. 
The project will improve transaction integrity, create efficiencies and 
reduce operating costs, and will establish a robust global control 
framework for future projects. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 15
Customer loyalty and implementation success
We continue to see strong loyalty within the CTC customer base. 
Nine existing CTC customers extended their investment, proving the 
potential to grow the relationship within accounts based on high levels 
of customer satisfaction, a licensing model with fees based on usage, 
and strong demand for data integrity across a wide variety of use cases 
within our client base.
We pay close attention to securing rapid implementation success 
and gaining referenceability across the customer base. The Group’s 
professional services are profitable with implementation projects on 
track and customer satisfaction remaining high. We now measure 
Net Promoter Score
®
 after key points of interaction with customer 
support and are encouraged by the results.
Notable successes during the year included one of our larger early-adopter 
global investment banking clients signing off its multi-year enterprise 
control framework migration project. It is now live with an enterprise-scale 
implementation of CTC with in excess of 400 controls on a single instance 
processing up to 180 million transactions a day with three million in real 
time. This is a ground breaking project for the industry and an excellent 
demonstration of the adaptability and scalability of the Clareti platform, 
the best-in-class processing speed of our matching engine, and the 
rapid pace at which controls can be deployed.
Our CTC Transition Management offering received comparable 
endorsements after flawlessly managing the data integrity processes 
related to the migration and reconciliation of 1.5 billion records as part 
of a substantial master data management project for a global insurer. 
The traditional manually intensive approach would have been far more 
costly and time consuming, and lacked transparency and auditability.
Innovation
The Group continues to invest heavily in research and development 
in order to maintain its technology advantage in the core matching 
and reconciliation market and the expansion into enterprise data integrity. 
The Clareti platform presents the Group with multiple possibilities 
for long-term sustained growth and in addition to making extensions 
to the platform we will grow the portfolio of packaged applications. 
We have introduced a “Cloud First & Cloud Native” strategy that 
underpins our 2016 programme of work.
“ As soon as we had seen 
the demonstration, we felt 
that CTC could improve 
our business processes.”
Associate Director of Property  
and Asset Management, JLL
During 2015 we announced a number of new product initiatives:
A major new version of our CTC Accounts Receivable Management 
application was released. CTC ARM automates matching and allocations 
in the order-to-cash cycle which is often slow, manual and prone to error. 
With CTC ARM matching is performed quickly and accurately and working 
capital can be released in good time. The application is based on our 
multi-tenanted Clareti platform with white labelling flexibility and 
enhanced cash and information management functionality. This 
enables banks to offer innovative products to their corporate 
customers via the banks’ own secure private cloud. This release has 
been well received and we are positive about the potential for CTC 
ARM, building on the success we have achieved so far.
Our core platform also benefited from ongoing investment. The platform 
is based on a robust modern architecture and is continually evolving as 
prospects and customers challenge the software with new use cases. 
We received PCI-DSS accreditation as a validation of our security model 
enabling us to target the credit card and payment processing market. 
We also introduced the CTC On-boarding Accelerator, which has been 
extremely well received by our customers because it enables them to 
build, deploy and maintain controls entirely through a graphical interface.
In the third quarter, we announced the availability of CaaS, our cloud 
and managed services platform. It was pleasing to see our first wins 
for CaaS come through during the year and in the first quarter of 2016, 
and we believe there is also potential for incremental managed service 
revenue in our existing customer base.
People
In 2015 we undertook a first externally benchmarked employee 
engagement study with Great Place to Work
®
 and were encouraged 
by a strong set of overall scores including class-leading results for 
“strategy and direction” and “values and ethics” . Staff are encouraged 
to discuss issues openly and managers are encouraged to enter the 
“zone of uncomfortable debate” in the search for the best outcomes.
We have also introduced a Group-wide programme to implement 
strategies for retaining staff on an ongoing basis that are appropriate 
to the local geographic and industry economic climate. These strategies 
include the provision of competitive terms and conditions, a defined 
contribution pension scheme, consideration of family and personal 
needs, training and career development coaching, and in some cases, 
performance-related incentives aligned to achievement of strategic 
objectives, measured by Group KPIs, and relevant to their role.
There is a programme of regular “all hands” communications from me 
and other members of the senior management team, and regular team 
“stand ups” and social events encourage high levels of engagement. 
An awards and recognition programme was introduced in 2015.
The Group is moving towards an environment of continuous 
employee/manager dialogue, rather than annual performance 
appraisals to ensure that staff are getting ongoing support from the 
Group (including training needs) to satisfactorily complete their job 
requirements and achieve Group objectives.
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
7 March 2016 Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 16
Financial review
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present this financial review for the year ended 31 December 2015 which has been a breakthrough year for CTC and a validation 
of our ongoing strategies to grow CTC and other new Clareti revenues from a base of sustainable partner and legacy revenues.
Operating performance
As CTC has become ever more central to our business we now segment our operating performance between Clareti software and services revenues 
and Other software and services revenues. For the years 2015 and 2014 Clareti revenues were solely attributable to CTC, and our expectation for future 
years is that this segment will include revenues from other applications running on the same Clareti platform as CTC. Further discussion of the Group’s 
change in reportable segments is set out in note 4 of the Group financial statements.
Operating performance is analysed excluding exceptional items, which is consistent with the way in which the Board reviews the financial results 
of the Group.
Operating performance table
The following table summarises the Group’s operating performance.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Variance
£m %
Revenue-based performance:
Clareti Software
Recurring 1.9 1.0 0.9 90%
Non-recurring 1.5 0.1 1.4 1400%
KPI 3.4 1.1 2.3 212%
Clareti Services 1.9 2.4 (0.5) (21)%
Clareti Revenues – total KPI 5.3 3.5 1.8 51%
Other software and services
Recurring 5.9 5.5 0.4 7%
Non-recurring 3.6 3.8 (0.2) (5)%
9.5 9.3 0.2 2%
Total revenues KPI 14.8 12.8 2.0 16%
Total recurring revenue KPI 7.8 6.5 1.3 20%
Earnings-based performance
Statutory profit before tax as reported 1.58 0.46 1.12 243%
Adjustments for exceptional items 0.15 0.00 0.15 n/a
Adjusted profit before tax 1.73 0.46 1.27 276%
Interest income (0.02) (0.04) 0.02 (50)%
Amortisation and depreciation 0.88 0.63 0.25 40%
Share-based payments charge 0.11 0.05 0.06 120%
Adjusted EBITDA KPI 2.70 1.10 1.60 145%
Adjusted EBITDA/total revenue KPI 18% 9% 10% 113%
Profit after tax 1.95 1.10 0.85 77%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 3.08 1.77 1.31 74%
Basic earnings per share (pence) – adjusted 3.32 1.77 1.55 88%
EBITDA refers to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 17
Revenues
2015 was a significant year for the Group’s Clareti-led strategy as 
the Clareti platform and applications continued to win high quality 
and credible customers in our target geographies and markets as well 
as generating strong additional revenues from increased usage by 
existing customers. Clareti revenues rose 51% as result, increasing 
£1.8m to £5.3m year on year, and achieved the milestone of becoming 
the Group’s highest revenue-generating product set in addition to 
becoming the largest gross margin contributor.
The Group has a strategic aim to focus revenue opportunities on 
annuity-based models to increase recurring revenue and visibility 
of future revenues that are either contracted or generally expected 
to automatically renew. Software recurring revenues typically include 
customers paying for support and maintenance for installed software 
plus customer subscriptions that combine licence fees for use of the 
software and support and maintenance charges. Conversely, software 
non-recurring revenues comprise software perpetual licences. Services 
comprise project-based consultancy services. During 2015 the Group 
saw good progress against this strategic aim with Clareti software 
recurring revenues rising 90%, increasing £0.9m to £1.9m year on year.
The following table further analyses the Clareti software revenue 
recognised in the current and prior financial years together with 
the run-rate achieved at the end of each financial year:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Clareti revenue
Software revenue 3.4 1.1 1.5 0.2 0.0 
  of which software 
recurring revenue 1.9 1.0 0.4 0.2 0.0 
Recurring revenue run-rate
(1)
 
31 December 2.4 1.6 0.7 0.2 0.0 
(1)  Being Clareti software recurring revenue to be recognised in the following financial 
period arising from existing customer contracts
The Group’s Other software and services revenue is comprised of the 
non-Clareti portfolio of software products and services and includes 
revenues from our legacy products such as VME and EDT , as well as those 
from our partner products such as CashFac’s Virtual Bank Technology
®
 
and Wall Street Systems’ treasury products. This portfolio of products 
remained stable as anticipated, recording growth of 2% and increasing 
£0.2m to £9.5m year on year. These Other software and services revenues 
continue to be mostly recurring in nature.
Earnings
The Group delivered a strong increase in earnings with adjusted EBITDA 
rising by 145%, increasing £1.6m to £2.7m year on year. This increase 
was consistent with the growth in CTC revenues and reflects the high 
margins (typically 90%+) associated with CTC revenues and the profitability 
they generate. Administrative costs in the business continue to be closely 
controlled with planned increases in sales and marketing spend as the 
Group seeks to maximise the investments in product development and 
the market opportunities available for the Clareti platform and applications.
Exceptional items
In H1 2015 the Group completed its planned CEO succession, which 
incurred a number of one-off costs from professional advisers involved 
throughout the process. In H2 2015 the Group undertook a review of 
its marketing and operating activities and made changes that resulted 
in a number of one-off costs being incurred. These one-off items totalled 
£149,000 and have been disclosed as exceptional items. There were 
no exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2014.
“ Gresham did a great job 
in providing a solution that 
was beyond our expectation. 
It became very clear that 
the CTC product is already 
next-generation. I would 
not hesitate to utilise 
Gresham again.”
Chief Operating Officer,  
Sberbank Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 18
Cashflow and working capital
The following table summarises the Group’s cash movements.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Statutory profit before tax as reported 1.6 0.5 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1.0 0.7 
Share-based payment expense 0.1 0.1 
Working capital movements (0.5) 1.8 
Net income taxes received 1.0 —
Cash inflow from operations 3.2 3.1 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (0.2) (0.2)
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets (3.0) (3.3)
Net cash used in investing activities (3.2) (3.5)
Net cash from financing 0.0 0.8 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.4 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 4.7 4.4 
Exchange adjustments 0.0 (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 4.7 4.7 
The Group’s financial position remains strong at 31 December 2015 with 
cash of £4.7m and no debt (2014: £4.7m and no debt). Cash remained 
flat year on year as the cash generated from the business was invested 
in both product development and distribution channels (primarily our 
own sales and marketing activities currently).
Cashflow and funding more generally remain a focus as the Group 
carefully balances the need to invest upfront in product and the sales 
and marketing required to distribute it in advance of winning and getting 
paid by new clients. The Group is particularly sensitive to this with larger 
customers that typically require long selling cycles pre-contract and 
lengthy on-boarding processes.
Despite this, cashflow for the Group remains well balanced and 
cash generated from operating activities is supplemented with the 
research and development tax credit that is available in the UK to 
facilitate investment in innovation. The Group anticipates cash will 
increase as the trend of increasing Clareti revenue continues and moves 
ahead of product and sales and marketing investment and other 
operational expenditure required to service these revenues.
Development spend
In 2015, development spend was slightly down on 2014 at £2.9m 
(2014: £3.1m) and is expected to continue at this level whilst the Group 
targets new markets and use cases that require product innovation. 
During the year our development activities focused on Clareti-as-a-Service, 
Accounts Receivable Management and PCI-DSS compliance in addition 
to various incremental improvements to existing and anticipated 
customer use cases. Development spend is prioritised on product 
innovation that generates the most likely recurring revenue returns.
Taxation
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group has recorded a net 
tax credit of £0.4m (2014: £0.6m), mainly comprising a research and 
development tax credit of £0.8m (2014: £0.8m), offset with a deferred 
tax charge of £0.4m (2014: £0.2m). The Group’s accumulated deferred 
tax asset of £0.2m will reverse as a non-cash taxation charge to the income 
statement in future periods whilst the research and development tax 
credits are receivable in cash during the year following recognition.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had unrecognised tax losses carried 
forward for offset against future trading profits of £10.2m (2014: £10.1m). 
The majority of these are attributable to the UK statutory company that 
owns the intellectual property rights in the Clareti platform and 
associated applications.
Rob Grubb
Chief Financial Officer
7 March 2016
Financial review continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
 C orporate
 Go v ernance
20 Board of Directors
22 Statement of corporate governance
27 Remuneration report
33 Directors’ report
37 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 20
Board of Directors
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive Officer
Chairman’s introduction 
to governance
We are committed to achieving high standards 
of corporate governance throughout the Group. 
The Board acknowledges the importance 
of achieving management accountability 
and managing risks and uncertainties both 
proactively and as they arise. Our governance 
principles remain aligned to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, namely leadership, 
effectiveness, accountability, remuneration 
and engagement. As a Board, the Group’s 
strategy and performance, culture and values, 
and risks and uncertainties are discussed and 
debated, as well as key operational matters 
as they arise. As regards the membership of 
the Board, 2015 saw a significant change with 
Ian Manocha succeeding Chris Errington as 
Chief Executive Officer following a thorough 
search process. Ian brings enormous experience 
in the financial technology sector and we are 
delighted to welcome him to the Board.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
7 March 2016
Chairman of the nomination committee 
(from 7 March 2016). Member of the audit 
committee and remuneration committee.
None.
Committees
Ken was appointed to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in June 2010 
and became Non-Executive Chairman 
in November 2010.
Ian was appointed Chief Executive Officer 
in June 2015.
Term of office
No. No.
Independent
Ken has over 35 years’ experience in the 
IT industry and possesses a wealth of knowledge 
of financial technology products and services 
having held a number of senior executive 
positions in this sector.
Ian has extensive experience in the business 
technology sector. He joined Gresham from 
SAS where he worked for 20 years, most 
recently as vice president business units, 
EMEA and AP . Ian has worked extensively 
with many of the world’s leading financial 
institutions and has been successful in 
growing companies to significant scale 
through securing and delivering high 
value enterprise software deals.
Skills and experience
Ken is a non-executive director 
of Fidessa group plc.
None.
External appointments Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 21
Rob Grubb
Chief Financial Officer
Max Royde
Senior Non-Executive Director
Chris Errington
Non-Executive Director
None. Chairman of the remuneration committee 
and (until conclusion of the 2016 AGM) 
chairman of the audit committee.
Chairman of the audit committee 
(from conclusion of the 2016 AGM) 
and member of the nomination committee 
(from 7 March 2016).
Rob was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 
2011 and was previously Company Secretary 
(2009 to 2014).
Max was appointed to the Board 
in August 2009.
Chris was appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in June 2015, having previously been CEO 
(2010 to 2015) and CFO (2004 to 2010).
No. No. No.
Rob qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young and has acquired substantial 
experience in assurance and strategic 
financial planning, as well as strong listed 
company experience.
Max is a partner at Kestrel Partners LLP , a 
smaller company fund management business 
founded in October 2009. Max has extensive 
knowledge of financial services and also has 
substantial listed company experience, having 
held directorships of other listed companies.
Chris qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young and has acquired substantial 
experience in the financial technology sector. 
Chris is head of research at Kestrel Partners LLP .
None. None. Chris is non-executive chairman 
of Snoozebox Holdings plc. Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 22
Statement of corporate governance
This statement explains how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of corporate governance and describes the Company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council and 
available at www.frc.org.uk. All references to the Company are in respect of the statutory entity Gresham Computing plc, which is the ultimate 
parent undertaking of the Gresham group of companies.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014
The Company has complied with the relevant provisions (“Provisions”) set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the “Code”) throughout the 
year with the exception of the matters referred to below:
Provisions Exceptions Explanations and steps taken
B1.1, B1.2, D1.3 The Company does not have any Non-Executive Directors 
who are considered independent. K Archer and M Royde are 
not considered independent as a result of their participation 
in December 2010 in the Group’s share option scheme. 
Further, M Royde is also not considered independent as a 
result of his interest in Kestrel Opportunities and its interest 
in Gresham as noted on page 35. C Errington is not considered 
independent as he previously held the role of Chief Executive 
of the Company and also has a paid role as head of research  
at Kestrel Partners LLP .
The Group’s share option scheme adopted in December 2010 was 
approved by the Company in general meeting following consultation 
with significant shareholders.
The need for and the appointment of independent Non-Executive Directors 
is kept under close review taking into account changes in the Company’s size, 
complexity and circumstances. The nomination committee formed by the Board 
as of 7 March 2016 has an ongoing action to continually assess the need for 
independent Non-Executive Directors and made recommendations to the Board.
B2.1, C3.1, D2.1 The nomination committee, audit committee 
and remuneration committee do not include at least 
two Non-Executive Directors who are considered 
independent, for the reasons set out above. Further, the 
audit committee does not currently include at least one 
member with recent and relevant financial experience.
As stated above, matters relating to composition of the Board and its committees 
are kept under close review, a process now formalised through the formation 
of the nomination committee.
As of the date of the 2016 AGM, C Errington will be appointed as chairman 
of the audit committee which will satisfy the requirement to have at least one 
member with recent and relevant financial experience.
B2.1, B2.2, B2.4 The Company did not have a nomination committee 
in 2015. 
Prior to the establishment of a nomination committee on 7 March 2016, matters 
relating to Board appointments were discussed and agreed upon with input from 
all Directors as part of Board proceedings, and the Board as a whole performed 
the duties ordinarily falling to a nomination committee. This was considered 
appropriate in light of the relatively small size of the Board, and discharging 
such duties did not disrupt normal operations of the Board.
The Board has reviewed the position and, taking into account the Company’s size, 
complexity and circumstances, the Board has concluded that it is now appropriate 
to form a nomination committee. Therefore, as of 7 March 2016, the Board has 
established a nomination committee for the purposes of performing the duties 
set out in the applicable Code provisions.
B2.3 Non-Executive Directors are appointed for unspecified 
terms and as such the Company does not comply with 
the requirement to appoint Non-Executive Directors for 
a specified term, subject to re-election and to statutory 
provisions relating to the removal of a director.
Each Non-Executive Director’s appointment is terminable by three months’ 
notice from either party, enabling the Board to take action should performance 
be unsatisfactory. 
All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, are subject to re-election at 
intervals of no more than three years, or annually in the case of any Non-Executive 
Director who has served longer than nine years, and to statutory provisions 
relating to the removal of a director. 
The Board and its committees
Board composition
The Board is currently comprised of the Non-Executive Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are distinct, set 
out in writing and agreed by the Board. The Chairman is responsible 
for the effectiveness of the Board and ensuring communication with 
shareholders, and the Chief Executive Officer is accountable for the 
management of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and assist in 
the development of strategy. They scrutinise the performance 
of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and 
monitor the reporting of performance. 
The Senior Non-Executive Director , M Royde, is available to shareholders 
if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve or for which 
such contact is inappropriate.
Up until March 2014, R Grubb, the Chief Financial Officer, also held 
the post of Company Secretary. On 21 March 2014, R Grubb resigned 
as Company Secretary and on the same day J Cathie was appointed 
Company Secretary. J Cathie is not a Director of the Company. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
for the Board as a whole. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 23
The Board and its committees continued
Operation of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 
of the Group. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the financial statements is set out on page 37 and a statement on going 
concern is given on page 24.
The Board normally meets once a month and has a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. These include strategic 
planning, business acquisitions and disposals, authorisation of major 
capital expenditure and material unusual contractual arrangements, 
setting policies for the conduct of business and approval of budgets 
and financial statements. Other matters are delegated to the 
Executive Directors, supported by policies for reporting to the Board. 
Presentations are made to the main Board at each monthly Board 
meeting by the Executive Directors and also on regular occasions 
by operational management.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, 
on corporate governance matters. The Company maintains appropriate 
insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Company’s 
Directors and the Company Secretary, but no cover exists in the event 
that the Director is found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are 
able to meet without Executives present prior to each Board meeting. 
The agenda and relevant briefing papers for each Board meeting are 
distributed by the Company Secretary, usually a week in advance 
of each Board meeting.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action, these concerns are 
recorded in Board minutes. On resignation, a Non-Executive Director 
is required to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation 
to the Board if there are any such concerns.
The Board has formed the following committees to deal with the specific 
aspects of the Group’s affairs. The committee chairmen report regularly 
to the whole Board and are required to confirm that the committees 
have sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Audit committee
The audit committee is currently comprised of M Royde (committee 
chairman) and K Archer. As of conclusion of the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”), C Errington will become chairman of the audit 
committee in lieu of M Royde who will cease to be a member of the audit 
committee from such time. There were two audit committee meetings 
in respect of the 2015 financial year, and both were attended by the 
lead external audit partner and were attended by the Executive Directors 
by invitation. The role and responsibilities of the audit committee are 
set out in terms of reference available on request from the Company 
Secretary and are described in more detail in the report of the audit 
committee on page 25.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is currently comprised of M Royde 
(committee chairman) and K Archer. The role and responsibilities of 
the remuneration committee are set out in terms of reference available 
on request from the Company Secretary and are outlined in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 27 .
Nomination committee
The nomination committee is currently comprised of K Archer (committee 
chairman) and C Errington. The nomination committee was formed on 
7 March 2016. The role and responsibilities of the nomination committee 
are set out in terms of reference available on request from the Company 
Secretary and are outlined in the report of the nomination committee 
on page 26. 
Meetings and attendance
The following table summarises the number of Board, audit committee 
and remuneration committee meetings held during the year and the 
attendance record of individual Directors at those meetings. There were 
no nomination committee meetings in the year as the committee was 
only formed on 7 March 2016.
Board
Audit
Committee
(1)
Remuneration
Committee
(1)
Number of meetings held 13 2 1
Number of meetings attended
K Archer 13 2 1
I Manocha
(2)
6 1 1
R Grubb 13 2 1
M Royde 12 2 1
C Errington
(3)
13 2 1
H Purdey
(4)
2 — —
(1) Executive directors and other non-members attend by invitation
(2) Appointed 1 June 2015
(3) Executive director until 1 June 2015 and then Non-Executive Director
(4) Resigned 27 January 2015
Induction, training and performance evaluation
Induction and training
New Directors receive a thorough and tailored induction on their 
appointment to the Board covering the activities of the Group and its 
key business and financial risks, the terms of reference of the Board and 
its committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
The Chairman ensures that Directors update their skills, knowledge 
and familiarity with the Group required to fulfil their roles on the Board 
and on Board committees. Ongoing training is provided as necessary 
and includes updates from the Company Secretary on changes to the 
Listing Rules, requirements under the Companies Act and other regulatory 
matters. Directors may consult with the Company Secretary at any time 
on matters related to their role on the Board. All Directors have access 
to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense where 
they judge it necessary to discharge their duties, with requests for such 
advice being authorised by the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Evaluation of the Board’s performance
The Board has undertaken a formal review encompassing the performance 
of the Board as a whole, its committees and each Director. In performing 
these reviews, criteria that are taken into account include the ability of the 
Director: to take the perspective of creating shareholder value; to contribute 
to the development of strategy and identification of risks; to provide clarity 
of direction to management; to be a source of wise counsel; to bring 
a broad perspective to discussions and an understanding of key issues; 
to commit the time required to fulfil the role; and to listen to and respect 
the ideas of fellow Directors and management. Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 24
Statement of corporate governance continued
Induction, training and performance evaluation continued
Evaluation of the Board’s performance continued
The Chairman has formally reviewed the performance of M Royde 
and C Errington and satisfied himself that their performance continues 
to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to 
the role. The Senior Non-Executive Director is responsible for, and has 
undertaken, the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into 
account the views of the other Directors and the criteria above, and is 
satisfied that his performance continues to be effective and that he 
continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Retirement and re-election
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
immediately following their appointment and thereafter are subject 
to re-election at intervals of no more than three years, or annually for 
any Non-Executive Director who has served for more than nine years. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for unspecified terms and 
are terminable by three months’ notice from either the Company 
or the individual.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a dialogue 
is maintained with shareholders based on the mutual understanding 
of objectives.
Members of the Board meet with major shareholders on a regular 
basis, including presentations after the Company’s announcement 
of the year-end results and at the half year. Non-Executives are offered 
the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and attend 
on a regular basis.
The Board is kept informed of the views of shareholders at each Board 
meeting through a report from the Chief Executive together with formal 
feedback on shareholders’ views gathered and supplied by the Company’s 
advisers. The views of private and smaller shareholders, typically arising 
from the AGM or from direct contact with the Company, are also 
communicated to the Board on a regular basis.
M Royde, the Senior Non-Executive Director, and K Archer, the 
Non-Executive Chairman, are available to shareholders if they have 
concerns where contact through the normal channel of Chief Executive 
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional 
investors and welcomes their participation. All members of the Board 
attended the Company’s last AGM save for C Errington who was unable 
to attend due to business travel, and the Chairman aims to ensure that 
all members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM can be found in 
the Notice of the Meeting. A separate resolution is proposed for each 
substantially separate issue including a separate resolution relating 
to the report and accounts.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects, extending to 
interim reports and other price-sensitive public reports and reports 
to regulators as well as to information required to be presented by 
statutory requirements. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities 
is set out on page 37 .
Management and specialists within the Group’s finance department 
are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial 
records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, 
reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, 
and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner. 
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed 
by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the 
Group are appropriately reported. All financial information published 
by the Group is subject to the approval of the audit committee.
Going concern
The Directors are required to report that the business is a going concern, 
with supporting assumptions and qualifications as necessary. The Directors 
have concluded that the business is a going concern as further explained 
in the Directors’ Report on page 33. Refer to page 13 for the viability 
statement required pursuant to Provision C2.2 of the Code. 
Control environment
The Group operates within a control framework developed and 
strengthened over a number of years and communicated as appropriate 
by a series of written procedures. These lay down accounting policies 
and financial control procedures, in addition to controls of a more 
operational nature. The key procedures that the Directors have 
established with a view to providing internal control are as follows:
 • the establishment of the organisation structure and the delegated 
responsibilities of operational management;
 • the definition of authorisation limits, including matters reserved 
for the Board;
 • regular site visits by the Executive Directors, with the results 
reported to Board meetings;
 • the establishment of detailed operational budgets for each 
financial year;
 • maintenance of a risk register which is reviewed and updated 
at every Board meeting;
 • review of regular, detailed monthly management reporting provided 
for every Board meeting which encompasses both review of operational 
activities and entries arising on consolidation;
 • reporting and monitoring performance against budgets 
and rolling forecasts;
 • the security of physical property and of computer information; and
 • detailed due diligence on all acquisitions. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 25
Report of the audit committee
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems, and reviewing and monitoring 
the requirement for an internal audit function and the effectiveness 
of the external audit. Activities include monitoring the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements and other formal announcements relating 
to the Group’s financial performance and reviewing significant financial 
reporting judgements contained in them.
The audit committee advises the Board on the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external auditor, considers its 
effectiveness and approves its remuneration and terms of engagement, 
which includes developing and implementing a policy on the provision 
of non-audit services by the external audit firm. It also reviews and 
monitors the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The work of the committee in discharging its responsibilities includes:
 • monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance, and reviewing financial reporting judgements 
contained in them;
 • reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and reviewing 
the Group’s internal control and risk management systems;
 • reviewing the Group’s whistle-blowing arrangements;
 • reviewing the need for a separate internal audit function;
 • making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders 
for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve 
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor;
 • reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements;
 • developing and implementing policy on engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external audit firm; and 
 • to report to the Board, identifying any matters for which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations 
as to the steps to be taken.
The committee has met with senior management and the external auditor 
to review financial reporting prior to the year end and at the full year, 
including discussions as to the scope, materiality, timing and findings 
of the annual audit.
Significant judgements
The significant judgements in relation to the financial statements 
considered by the committee are:
 • Capitalised development costs – development costs are accounted 
for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets, and costs that meet 
the qualifying criteria are capitalised and systematically amortised 
over the useful economic life of the intangible asset. Determining 
whether development costs qualify for capitalisation as intangible 
assets requires judgement, including estimates of the technical and 
commercial viability of the asset created, and its applicable useful 
economic life. These estimates are continually reviewed and updated 
based on past experience and reviews of competitor products 
available in the market.
  The committee has considered the development costs capitalised, 
including the technical and commercial feasibility of the product being 
produced and as to whether further costs continue to fulfil the required 
IAS 38 criteria or are of maintenance in nature. The committee’s review 
encompasses direct discussion with executive and operational 
management, in addition to reviewing monthly formal reporting to 
the Board on development and associated sales and implementation 
activity. The committee has concluded treatment of development 
costs continues to be in line with IFRS requirements.
 • Revenue and profit recognition – fixed price contracts are 
accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts. 
Revenue and profits are recognised on a percentage-of-completion 
basis, as costs incurred relate to total costs for the contract, when 
the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably. Determining 
whether a contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably requires 
management to exercise judgement, whilst calculation of the contract’s 
profit requires estimates of the total contract costs to completion. 
Cost estimates and judgements are continually reviewed and updated 
as determined by events or circumstances.
  The committee has reviewed executive and operational 
management’s descriptions and status reports on material work 
in progress through the year, both through direct discussion 
and formal month-end reporting to the Board. The committee 
has furthermore considered management’s assessments made on 
percentage of completion of material work in progress, and other 
judgements such as bundling or unbundling of revenue streams, 
and the resulting impact on revenue and profit recognition. 
The committee has concluded that the timing of revenue and 
profit recognition continues to be in line with IFRS requirements.
 • Impairment reviews – the Group is required to perform impairment 
reviews of goodwill annually at the reporting date, and in addition 
performs impairment reviews of capitalised development costs to 
identify any intangible assets that have a carrying value that is in excess 
of its recoverable value. Determining the recoverability of an intangible 
asset requires judgement in both the methodology applied and 
the key variables within that methodology. Where it is determined 
an intangible asset is impaired, its carrying value will be reduced to 
its recoverable value with the difference recorded as an impairment 
charge in the income statement.
  The committee has considered management’s assessments of value 
in use of cash-generating units of intangible assets (principally the 
goodwill and capitalised development costs) at the reporting date. 
This included specifically considering and subsequently approving 
business plans prepared by management supporting the future 
performance expectations used in the calculation of the value in use. 
The committee has concluded that the value in uses calculated for 
intangible assets are appropriate, and supports the carrying values 
of intangible assets at the year end, in line with IFRS requirements.
Risk management and internal control systems
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management 
and internal control system to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Company’s assets. The Directors acknowledge their ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring that the Group has in place a system of 
controls, financial and otherwise, and for risk management, that are 
appropriate to the business environment in which it operates and 
the risks to which it is exposed, and for monitoring those systems. Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 26
Report of the audit committee continued
Risk management and internal control systems continued
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems during the year. This review covered all 
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Company’s risk management and internal control systems are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Action has been taken 
by the Board to enhance financial and other controls during the year. 
In addition, steps are continuing to be taken to further embed internal 
control and risk management processes into the operations of the 
business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to 
management’s and the Board’s attention.
An embedded ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the principal risks faced by the Group has been in place 
throughout the year and remains in place up to the date of the approval 
of the financial statements. The process is regularly reviewed by the 
Board and accords with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting produced by 
the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014. 
Whistle-blowing
The committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff of 
the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters 
and concluded that they remain appropriate.
Internal audit
During the year, the committee considered the need for a separate 
internal audit function and its impact on the external audit and concluded 
that, based on the size of the Group, a separate internal audit function 
is not necessary at this stage of the Group’s maturity. The need for an 
internal audit function is reviewed at least annually.
External auditor appointment 
The committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the 
reappointment of the external auditor. In making these recommendations, 
the committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, 
partner rotation and any other factors which may impact the external 
auditor’s reappointment.
The last audit tender process undertaken by the committee was performed 
in 2010 resulting in the appointment of BDO LLP as external auditor for 
the year ended 31 December 2010. BDO LLP has continued as external 
auditor for every year since then including in respect of this Annual 
Financial Report, and a resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Group’s 
auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
External auditor effectiveness 
The committee discussed and approved the scope of and the fees for the 
external audit plan and in addition, the committee considered external 
audit’s assessment of the significant risks in the Group’s financial statements. 
Throughout the year, the committee tracked these risks and associated 
work undertaken by external audit has been evaluated.
The committee monitored the conduct and effectiveness of external audit 
by considering the commercial experience and expertise of the auditor, 
particularly in the Group’s industry sector; the fulfilment of the agreed 
audit plan and any variations from this plan; and the robustness of the 
external auditor in its handling of key accounting and audit judgements.
External auditor independence
The committee seeks to maintain auditor objectivity and independence 
by reviewing and controlling the manner in which non-audit services 
are awarded to the auditor on at least an annual basis. The Group has 
a rigorous policy designed to ensure that the auditor’s independence 
is not compromised by its undertaking inappropriate non-audit work. 
All significant non-audit work, and any work of a non-compliance 
consultancy nature, commissioned from the external auditor requires 
audit committee approval.
The committee formally reviews the independence of the external 
auditor on an annual basis and has undertaken its annual review of the 
nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor 
and satisfied itself that there is no effect on its independence.
Report of the nomination committee
The nomination committee is responsible for leading the process 
for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board. 
The nomination committee was formed on 7 March 2016 and as such it 
provides this report in respect of the activities carried out by the Board 
as a whole as they apply to 2015. 
The Chief Executive Officer succession process that was initiated in 
2014 concluded on 5 March 2015 with the appointment of I Manocha 
and an associated change in role for C Errington, effective 1 June 2015. 
The Chief Executive appointment process involved the use of independent 
search consultants.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective 
criteria. The Board’s policy is to consider all applicants for any appointment 
with due regard for equality of opportunity, including gender, to create 
workplace cultures that promote inclusion and diversity. Given the 
relatively small size of the Board and the Group, the Board did not set any 
measurable objectives for implementing the policy, but it acknowledges 
the important role that it plays in promoting inclusion and diversity 
within the Group and on the Board, and keeps the need to set measurable 
objectives under review. As regards Board appointments, care is taken 
to ensure that Board appointees have enough time to devote to the job, 
especially in the case of chairmanships. The nomination committee 
keeps under review, and takes appropriate action to ensure, orderly 
succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management, 
so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within 
the Group and on the Board.
The Board considers the other significant commitments of  
Non-Executive Directors prior to appointment, to ensure that they 
have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them, and keeps 
changes to these commitments under review. The terms and conditions 
of appointment of Non-Executive Directors and service contracts 
of Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at 
the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and at 
the AGM (for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting). 
Details of positions held in other companies are included on pages 20 
and 21.
Statement of corporate governance continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 27
Annual statement from the chairman 
of the remuneration committee 
The remuneration committee is chaired by M Royde and K Archer 
is a member.
The following Directors’ Remuneration Report is presented for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. 
The Group’s policy on Directors’ remuneration for the current and 
subsequent financial years is that the overall remuneration package 
should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high 
quality executives capable of achieving the Group’s objectives 
and thereby enhancing shareholder value. The Group intentionally 
operates a simple remuneration structure made up of basic salary, 
benefits, share options, performance-related bonuses and pensions, 
with a significant proportion based on performance and dependent 
upon the achievement of demanding targets, which provide a clear 
link between executive pay and the Group’s key strategic objectives. 
Consideration is given to pay and employment policies elsewhere in the 
Group, especially when determining annual salary increases by reference 
to prevailing local market pay rates and overall packages offered. 
The main activities of the Committee since the last report were: 
setting the remuneration for I Manocha in relation to his appointment 
as Chief Executive; assessing performance of Executive Directors for 
the year reported and setting targets for the following financial period; 
approving proposed bonus and share awards in the period; reviewing 
the revised remuneration reporting regulations; and preparing the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. The committee makes recommendations 
to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on an overall remuneration 
package for Executive Directors and other Senior Executives. 
The Chief Executive provides advice in relation to the remuneration 
of other Senior Executives.
The committee made remuneration decisions in 2015 in connection 
with I Manocha’s appointment as Chief Executive. In line with the 
Group’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors, I Manocha’s 
remuneration is structured such that a significant proportion of his total 
remuneration is based on performance and dependent upon the 
achievement of Group targets, which maintains a clear link between 
executive pay and the Group’s key strategic objectives. In addition, 
the committee reviewed R Grubb’s base salary in accordance with 
the Directors’ remuneration policy and determined C Errington’s 
Non-Executive Director fee effective upon the CEO succession 
on 1 June 2015.
Executive Directors’ pay continues to be directly aligned to the interests 
of shareholders including the award of share options with a value 
proportionate to investor value as expressed through the publicly 
traded share price, in addition to performance-related bonus based 
on Group financial performance.
Other than the share option grant to I Manocha upon his appointment, 
there were no share option awards during the year.
Remuneration disclosure
This report complies with the requirements of the Large and  
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 2014) and the Listing Rules.
The report is in two sections: 
 • the Directors’ remuneration policy (beginning page 27). This section 
contains details of the remuneration policy that was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM. As the Directors are not proposing 
any changes to this policy it is not required to be put to a further 
shareholder vote until 2017; and
 • the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This section sets out details 
of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and how the Company intends for the policy 
to apply for the year ended 31 December 2016. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder 
vote at the AGM in April 2016.
Directors’ remuneration policy
Remuneration policy table
The table below sets out the remuneration policy that was approved 
by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. As the Directors are not proposing 
any changes to this policy it is not required to be put to a further 
shareholder vote until 2017 .
The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the policy set out below, where the terms of the payment were agreed 
(i) before the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the relevant 
individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the 
committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual 
becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes “payments” 
includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, 
in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are “agreed” 
at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration report Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 28
Remuneration report continued
Element of remuneration How this supports our strategy How this is operated Maximum that may be paid Framework used to assess performance
Base salary
Supports the recruitment and 
retention of Executive Directors 
of the calibre required to deliver 
the Group’s strategy.
Benefits principally comprise 
private healthcare and death 
in service insurance.
Reviewed annually with 
any increases applying 
from 1 April in line with most 
employees in the Group.
Increases may be made 
to take account of changes 
in an individual’s responsibilities, 
in the case of increased 
performance from development 
in a role, or to bring in line with 
market levels as appropriate.
In determining appropriate base 
salary , consideration is given to pay 
increases for other employees in the 
Group, comparable pay for similar 
roles at other similar companies, 
and individual performance.
Pension Contributions are made 
by the Company to a defined 
contributions scheme, matching 
the Directors’ own contributions.
Employer contributions up to 
a maximum of 5% of base salary, 
in line with other employees 
in the Group.
None.
Benefits Executive Directors are eligible 
to the same benefits as all Group 
staff in the geography they 
operate in.
Not applicable as premiums 
are paid by the Company to 
an external broker to arrange 
cover, which is in line with other 
employees in the Group.
None.
Annual bonus Rewards and incentivises 
the Directors through the 
achievement of the strategic 
plan as measured by KPIs.
Where the committee decide to 
operate an annual bonus, it will 
establish the objectives which 
must be met if a cash bonus 
is to be paid.
Up to 100% of basic salary 
dependent on the achievement 
of performance targets (including 
profitability) set at the beginning 
of the year; however, the 
Committee retains discretion 
to make higher awards in truly 
exceptional circumstances as 
a result of very significant 
level of Group performance 
(including profitability).
Increased shareholder value 
through achievement of the 
strategic plan.
Share option plan Directly aligns Director 
(Executive and Non-Executive) 
and Senior Executive financial 
incentives with returns to 
shareholders. Financial reward 
is created through the creation 
of shareholder value.
The committee makes one-off 
share option grants at a point 
in time and considers enhancing 
these annually. Where the 
committee determines it is 
appropriate, grants may include 
specific performance targets 
aligned to the strategic plan 
as vesting conditions.
Options are granted at an 
exercise price of not less than 
110% of the mid-market price 
of ordinary shares on the day 
prior to the date of grant.
Satisfaction of vesting conditions.
Chairman and  
Non-Executive 
Director fees
Supports the recruitment and 
retention of the individuals of the 
calibre required to bring adequate 
scrutiny to the Group’s strategy.
The level of Non-Executive 
Directors’ remuneration is 
determined by the Executive 
Directors after considering 
the fee levels in 
comparable businesses.
A basic fee is set for normal 
duties and supplementary 
fees are paid for any additional 
duties at fixed day rates.
Non-Executive Directors 
are not eligible for pensions, 
incentives or any similar payments 
other than normal out of pocket 
expenses incurred on behalf 
of the business. Compensation 
for loss of office is not payable 
to Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration scenarios
Executive pay under the above policy is wholly contractually based and represents 100% of maximum remuneration with the exception 
of any discretionary performance-related bonus awarded in line with the policy outlined above.
The graphs opposite compare all elements of Executive Director pay in respect of 2015, and proposed for 2016, incorporating the 
following scenarios:
 • the minimum remuneration receivable (“minimum”);
 • the remuneration receivable if the Director performs in line with the Company’s expectation (“expected”); and
 • the maximum remuneration ordinarily receivable (“maximum”), inclusive of an annual bonus of up to 100% of salary. Note the remuneration policy 
allows the committee discretion to make higher performance-related bonus awards in truly exceptional circumstances, as a result of very significant 
level of Group performance.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Remuneration policy table continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 29
Executive Director pay 2015 and proposed 2016 
(maximum)
2015 2016 maximum
Executive Director pay 2015 and proposed 2016 
(maximum)
2015 2016 maximum
Executive Director pay 2015 and proposed 2016 
(expected)
2015 2016 expected
Executive Director pay 2015 and proposed 2016 
(expected)
2015 2016 expected
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Remuneration scenarios continued
For each scenario, the first graph illustrates these amounts in Pounds Sterling, and the second graph shows the proportion each element is of total 
pay for the individuals shown expressed as a percentage. On each graph, “BIK” means benefits in kind.
Owing to the CEO succession which took effect on 1 June 2015, the figures on the graphs for 2015 for C Errington relate to the five month period 
commencing 1 January 2015, and the figures for 2015 for I Manocha relate to the seven month period commencing 1 June 2015.
Executive Director pay 2015 and proposed 2016 
(minimum)
2015 2016 minimum
Chris Errington Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
94%
95%
95%
94%
94%
1%
5%
5%
5%
1%
1%
5%
5%
Executive Director pay 2015 and proposed 2016 
(minimum)
Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension
2015 2016 minimum
Chris Errington Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
£62,500
£250,000
£145,833
£120,000
£115,000
£545
£544
£3,125
£1,191
£7,292
£12,500
£936
£971
£5,750
£6,000
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
Chris Errington Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
£62,500
£250,000
£145,833
£120,000
£115,000
Chris Errington Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
94%
95%
95%
94%
94%
£545
£544
£3,125
£1,191
£7,292
£12,500
£936
£971
£5,750
£6,000
1%
5%
5%
5%
1%
1%
5%
5%
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
£0
0%
Chris Errington Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
£62,500
£250,000
£145,833
£120,000
£115,000
Chris Errington Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
94%
49%
95%
94%
£545
£544
£3,125
£1,191
£7,292
£12,500
£936
£971
£5,750
£6,000
1%
5%
5%
2%
1%
1%
5%
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
£0
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
£0
0%
49%
£250,000
£120,000
49%
49%
2%
Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension
Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension
Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Salary Bonus BIK Pension Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 30
Remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy considerations
Recruitment
The Company’s nomination committee is responsible for leading the 
process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the 
Board. Prior to the formation of the nomination committee in March 2016, 
these responsibilities were undertaken by the Board as a whole. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective criteria. 
Care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to devote to 
the job, especially in the case of chairmanships. The nomination committee 
keeps under review, and takes appropriate action, to ensure orderly 
succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management, 
so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within 
the Group and on the Board.
Loss of office payments
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive 
Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. 
The remuneration committee considers the circumstances of individual 
cases of early termination and in exceptional circumstances only would 
recommend compensation payments in excess of the Company’s 
contractual obligations.
Wider staff employment conditions
The remuneration committee considers pay and employment conditions 
for other Senior Executives and staff members of the Group when 
designing and setting executive remuneration. Underpinning all pay 
is an intention to be fair to all staff of the Group, taking into account 
the individual’s seniority and local market practices.
Consultation with shareholders
The remuneration committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue 
with shareholders and seeks the views of significant shareholders when 
any major changes are being made to remuneration arrangements. 
The committee takes into account the views of significant shareholders 
when formulating and implementing the policy.
Consultation with employees
The Board and the remuneration committee did not consult with 
employees when formulating and implementing the policy.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
It is the Company’s policy to offer Directors service contracts 
terminable with a maximum of twelve months’ rolling notice from 
either side. None of the Non-Executive Directors have a service 
contract. Letters of appointment provide for an indefinite period, 
terminable by three months’ notice from either party.
Policy on Director shareholding
The Company has no policy on Director shareholding.
Directors’ Remuneration report
Single figure for total remuneration (audited information)
The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014:
Basic salary
and fees
£
Benefits
in kind
£
Performance-
related bonus
£
Pension
£
Share-based
payment
£
Total
2015
£
Total
2014
£
Executive Directors
C Errington
(1)
62,500 545 — 3,125 — 66,170 158,834
I Manocha
(2)
145,833 544 — 7,292 35,889 189,558 —
R Grubb 115,000 936 — 5,750 — 121,686 105,927
Non-Executive Directors
M Royde 30,000 — — — — 30,000 30,000
K Archer 82,250 — — — — 82,250 96,750
H Purdey
(3)
2,077 — — — — 2,077 15,952
C Errington
(1)
17,500 — — — — 17,500 —
455,160 2,025 — 16,167 35,889 509,241 407,463
(1)  CEO appointment ceased and became a Non-Executive Director 1 June 2015
(2) Appointed CEO 1 June 2015
(3) Appointed 19 June 2014, resigned 27 January 2015
The remuneration package of each Executive Director includes non-cash benefits comprising the provision of private healthcare and death 
in service insurance.
During the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 the committee did not award any performance-related bonuses in respect of Directors.
During 2015, 1,500,000 share options were granted to I Manocha upon his appointment as CEO. These share options are granted under the 
share options schemes adopted in 2010 and are subject to a minimum three year vesting period and performance conditions. No share options 
were granted to any other Directors during the year. All details in respect of existing Director share options grants that have fully vested during 
the year are included within the tables opposite. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 31
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Interests in options (audited information)
The Group operates share option schemes (the “Option Schemes 2010”), under which Directors and other Senior Executives are able 
to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company. There are no other share option schemes in operation. Further details concerning the 
Option Schemes 2010, including vesting conditions, can be found in note 22 to the Group financial statements on page 73.
The interests of the Directors under the Option Schemes 2010 were as set out in the table below:
Options at
1 January
2015 Granted Cancelled Exercised
Options at
31 December
2015
Date of
grant
Exercise
price
Date first
exercisable
Expiry
date
I Manocha
(1)
— 1,500,000 — — 1,500,000 01.06.15 111p 01.06.18 01.06.25
K Archer
(1)
700,000 — — — 700,000 31.12.10 28p 31.12.13 31.12.20
M Royde
(2)
500,000 — — — 500,000 31.12.10 28p 31.12.13 31.12.20
(1) Options over which the Director has agreed to pay any employer’s national insurance arising from the exercise of the options
(2) Awards granted to Kestrel Partners LLP , of which M Royde is a partner
The closing market price of the Company’s shares on 31 December 2015 
was 107 pence. During the year, the closing price per ordinary share 
ranged from 80 pence to 116.5 pence.
There were no exercises of Director share options in the year ended 
31 December 2015. In 2014:
 • C Errington, Chief Executive of the Company until 1 June 2015 
and Non-Executive Director since that date, exercised options over 
1,750,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 28.05 pence per 
ordinary share on 25 March 2014, giving rise to an unrealised gain 
of £1,749,125 based on the market price on the day of exercise of 
128 pence. The Company was also notified that on 25 March 2014 
C Errington subsequently sold 970,000 ordinary shares at a price 
of 128 pence per ordinary share to cover the exercise price due to 
the Company and certain tax liabilities which fall due as a result of 
the exercise of options. Following these transactions, C Errington had 
a beneficial interest in 782,268 ordinary shares, and the Company 
was notified on 1 June 2015 that C Errington disposed of a further 
250,000 ordinary shares leaving a residual holding of 532,268 
ordinary shares, representing approximately 0.84% of the current 
issued share capital of the Company.
 • R Grubb, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, exercised options 
over 300,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 28.05 pence 
per ordinary share on 25 March 2014, giving rise to an unrealised 
gain of £299,850 based on the market price on the day of exercise 
of 128 pence. The Company was also notified that on 25 March 2014 
R Grubb subsequently sold 75,000 ordinary shares at a price of 
128 pence per ordinary share to cover the exercise price due to the 
Company and certain tax liabilities which fall due as a result of the 
exercise of options. Following these transactions, R Grubb has and 
retains a beneficial interest in 231,405 ordinary shares, representing 
approximately 0.37% of the current issued share capital of the Company.
The interests of the Directors to subscribe for or acquire ordinary 
shares have not changed since the year end.
Service contracts
I Manocha has a service agreement dated 15 February 2015 which is 
terminable by twelve months’ rolling notice from either side. R Grubb 
has a service agreement dated 18 May 2011, which is terminable by 
six months’ rolling notice from either side.
K Archer has a letter of appointment dated 9 June 2012 which 
is terminable by three months’ notice from either party.
The services of M Royde are provided and invoiced by Kestrel Partners LLP 
(a company in which he has an ownership interest) under a consultancy 
agreement dated 19 November 2009 which is terminable by three months’ 
notice from either party.
C Errington’s service agreement dated 11 January 2005 was terminated 
by mutual consent without compensation for loss of office or otherwise 
upon him ceasing to be CEO and becoming a Non-Executive Director on 
1 June 2015. He has a letter of appointment dated 19 May 2015 which is 
terminable by three months’ notice from either party.
All Director service contracts and letters of appointment are available 
for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered office, 
Aldermary House, 10–15 Queen Street, London EC4N 1TX.
The link between pay and performance
The key variable element of Directors’ and senior managers’ pay is the 
award of share options and payments of performance-based annual 
bonuses. All Director and senior manager performance that directly 
creates shareholder value will in turn directly increase the value of 
individuals’ share option awards and annual bonus payments awarded.
In addition and where applicable, the remuneration committee retains 
the discretion to pay performance-related bonus within the parameters 
set out in the remuneration policy. 
Payments for loss of office (audited information)
No payments for loss of office were made during the year ended 
31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
Percentage change in the remuneration of the CEO
The table below sets out the increase in the total remuneration of the CEO 
and our staff (excluding promotions where relevant). We have selected 
all staff (around 120 people) for this comparison because it is considered 
to be the most relevant, due to the structure of total remuneration.
Change in
base salary
Bonus
payment as %
of base salary
CEO 1 January–31 May (C Errington) 0% 0%
CEO 1 June–31 December (I Manocha) 0% 0%
All staff 2% 0% Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 32
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Percentage change in the remuneration of the CEO continued
Neither C Errington nor I Manocha received an increase in base salary 
during their respective tenures as CEO during the year. However there 
was a step increase in CEO base salary effective 1 June 2015 as a result 
of the recruitment and appointment of I Manocha as CEO. 
Performance graphs
Total shareholder return
The graph below shows the total shareholder return for each of the 
last five financial years in terms of the change in value (with dividends 
reinvested) of an initial investment of £100 on 31 December 2010 in 
a holding of the Company’s shares against the corresponding total 
shareholder return in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 
TechMark All-Share Index. The FTSE TechMark All-Share was selected 
as it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company 
is a constituent member.
Total shareholder return (£)
Gresham Computing plc FTSE TechMark All-Share Index
This graph shows the value, by the end of 2015 of £100 investment in Gresham Computing plc 
on 31 December 2010 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE TechMark 
All-Share Index. The other points are values at intervening financial ends.
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Change in CEO pay
I Manocha’s recruitment and appointment as CEO effective 1 June 2015 
has resulted in a step increase in total CEO pay in 2015, although neither 
I Manocha nor C Errington received pay increases during their respective 
tenures in 2015. The graph below shows the single total figure of 
remuneration for the role of CEO for the current and previous four years.
Total Chief Executive Officer pay (£)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
250,000
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
0
There were no performance-related bonuses paid or payable to the 
CEO in respect of 2015 or 2014.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below shows the total employee pay cost (excluding 
capitalisation entries) compared to profit before tax (for continuing 
operations and before exceptional items) for the years ended 
31 December 2015 and 2014.
Total employee pay compared to profit before tax (£)
Employee pay Profit before tax
2014 2015
8,000,000
7,000,000
6,000,000
5,000,000
4,000,000
3,000,000
2,000,000
1,000,000
0
Statement of remuneration policy in the following year
There are no significant changes in the way the remuneration policy 
will be implemented in the current year compared to how it was 
implemented for the reported year.
Consideration of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration committee comprised M Royde (chairman) 
and K Archer. The remuneration committee does not comprise only 
independent Non-Executive Directors, as required by provision D2.1 
of the Code. The committee is responsible for setting remuneration 
for all Executive Directors and the Chairman appointed by the Company, 
including pension rights and provision for compensation payments. 
The committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure 
of remuneration for senior management. The remuneration of 
Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the executive members of the 
Board, within limits set in the Articles of Association. The remuneration 
committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer concerning 
the remuneration of other Executive Directors. Where appropriate, the 
committee seeks independent advice from remuneration consultants 
and also consults with the remainder of the Board. In the year, the 
remuneration committee considered and made decisions regarding 
I Manocha’s remuneration as part of the recruitment and appointment 
process for CEO succession, a review of base salary for R Grubb, 
and C Errington’s Non-Executive Director fee.
External advisers
The Group did not appoint any advisers to the remuneration 
committee in the current or in the previous financial year.
Max Royde
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 March 2016
Remuneration report continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 33
The Directors present their report and the Group financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out within the 
Chairman’s Statement, CEO’s Statement and Strategic Report. Disclosures 
in respect of principal risks and uncertainties, people (including employees 
and disabled employees) and product development (incorporating 
research and development activities) are included within the Strategic 
Report. In addition, note 20 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives; policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The statement of corporate governance beginning on page 22 forms 
part of the Directors’ Report.
Directors and officers
The Directors who served on the Board during the year are set 
out on pages 20 and 21, all of whom served throughout the year 
with the exception of I Manocha who was appointed on 1 June 2015. 
In addition, H Purdey was a Director of the Company until his resignation 
on 27 January 2015. J Cathie served as Company Secretary throughout 
the year.
Results and dividends
The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to £1,950,000 
(2014: £1,950,000). The Directors do not recommend a final ordinary 
dividend, which leaves the profit of £1,950,000 to be added to reserves. 
No dividends are recommended and none were paid in the prior year. 
Going concern and viability statement
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with good 
relationships with a number of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and industries. The Group has access to a strong 
underlying cashflow arising from long-established maintenance 
businesses with long-standing blue-chip customers and strong 
growth prospects being realised with its flagship product, CTC.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Annual Report and financial statements.
Refer to pages 13 for the viability statement required pursuant 
to Provision C2.2 of the Code.
Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events.
Significant relationships
The Group has two customer relationships which are considered to 
be individually significant to the Group. One relates to EMEA operations 
and derives from the Group’s cash management solution comprising 
Gresham integration technology and CashFac’s Virtual Bank Technology
®
. 
The other relates to APAC operations and includes a mix of revenues 
from the Group’s cash management solution, from CTC, and from other 
strategic non-recurring revenues. Revenues from these customer 
relationships individually exceeded 10% of the Group’s revenue in 
2015. In the opinion of the Directors, the Group does not have any 
other individually significant relationships.
People
People are key to Gresham’s expertise and ability to deliver on 
a global basis. Retaining people and allowing them to fulfil their 
potential is important. Loss of key people could slow our ability to 
grow the business and we seek to provide rewards and job fulfilment 
that mitigate this risk. We continue to invest in an apprenticeship 
and graduate intake scheme which has proven successful in bringing 
new ideas and skills into the business.
Each of the Group’s business units reviews strategies for retaining 
staff on an ongoing basis that are appropriate to the local geographic 
and industry economic climate. These strategies include the provision 
of competitive terms and conditions, administration of and matched 
contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme, consideration 
of family and personal needs, provision of training where required and, 
in some cases, share options and bonuses.
Performance-based rewards payable to employees in the form of share 
options and bonuses are aligned to achievement of strategic objectives, 
measured by Group KPIs, and relevant to their role.
Employees are invited to attend regular meetings within individual 
segments throughout the Group, in addition to regular Group-wide 
communications. Performance appraisals are made annually or more 
frequently if required, to ensure that employees are getting sufficient 
support from the Group (including training needs) in order to satisfactorily 
complete their job requirements.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the candidate’s particular aptitudes 
and abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements 
of the job. Opportunities are available to disabled employees for training, 
career development and promotion. Where existing employees become 
disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing employment 
wherever practicable in the same or an alternative position and to 
provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
Gender diversity
The Group strives to enable equality of opportunity and workplace 
cultures that promote inclusion. At 31 December 2015 the Group had 
the following split of gender of staff:
Female Male Total
Executive Directors — 2 2
Senior managers 1  6  7 
Staff 15  81  96 
 16  89  105 
Human rights
The Group supports the protection of human rights around the 
world and is guided by fundamental principles such as those in 
the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 
International Labour Organisation Core Conventions. This support 
is reflected in our policies and actions in the countries in which we 
do business. 
The vast majority of our supply chain exists in the countries we operate 
(staff costs or partner shares mainly) and are well known and managed 
directly by us. Where we do utilise suppliers in less known markets, we 
will not knowingly work with any supplier that does not share our value 
of human rights and in particular protection of employee rights. 
Directors’ report
Registered number 1072032 Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 34
Directors’ report continued
Registered number 1072032
Environmental considerations
The Directors consider that, because of the nature of its activities, 
the Group does not have a significant impact on the environment 
in which it operates. However, the Group recognises the importance 
of environmental responsibility and seeks, wherever possible, to reduce 
its environmental impact through focus on areas that it can control 
such as energy saving, recycling and appropriate disposal of old 
computer equipment and mobile phones.
Carbon emissions 
Greenhouse gas emissions
This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas 
emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”).
Reporting year
Our reporting year is the same as our fiscal year, being the year ended 
31 December 2015. This greenhouse gas reporting year has been 
established to align with our financial reporting year.
Organisation boundary and responsibility
We report our emissions data using an operational control approach 
to define our organisational boundary, which meets the definitional 
requirements of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for which 
we are responsible. We have reported on all material emission sources 
which we deem ourselves to be responsible for. These sources align 
with our operational control and financial control boundaries. We do 
not have responsibility for any emission sources that are beyond the 
boundary of our operational control. For example, business travel 
other than by car (including, for example, commercial flights or railways) 
and fully managed offices are not within our operational control and, 
therefore, are not considered to be our responsibility.
Methodology
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on 
the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory 
greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance” (June 2013) issued 
by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (“Defra”). 
We have also utilised Defra’s 2015 conversion factors within our 
reporting methodology.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data
For the year ended 31 December 2015:
Emissions from
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use – tonnes of CO
2
e 100  87
Group’s chosen intensity measurement
Emissions reported above 
normalised to tonnes of CO
2
e 
per total £P1,000,000 revenue 6.8 6.8
Emissions data has been reported for our operations in Australia and 
the UK, with our locations in Malaysia, North America and Singapore 
considered not material to the scope of this reporting. 
In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable 
factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue as our 
intensity ratio as this is the most relevant indication of our growth 
and provides for the best comparative measure over time.
Directors and their interests
The Directors at 31 December 2015 and their connected persons’ 
interests in the share capital of the Company (all beneficially held, 
other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which 
are detailed in the analysis of options included in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report) are as follows:
Ordinary shares of 5 pence each
31 December
2015
1 January
2015
K Archer 150,000  150,000 
M Royde 42,472  42,472 
M Royde – Kestrel Opportunities
(2)
 6,847,664  5,767,164 
C Errington 532,268  782,268 
I Manocha
(1)
— —
R Grubb 231,405  231,405 
(1) Appointed 1 June 2015
(2)  M Royde’s beneficial interest in the share capital of the Company includes shares held directly 
by Kestrel Opportunities, a cell of Guernsey Portfolios PCC Limited. Kestrel Partners LLP , 
which M Royde is a partner of and holds a beneficial interest in, is the investment manager 
to Kestrel Opportunities. Kestrel Opportunities’ shareholding is disclosed under major 
interests (i.e. those >3%) on page 35.
There have been no further changes in the Directors’ interests 
disclosed above from 31 December 2015 to 29 February 2016.
Directors’ liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to one or more of its Directors 
against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject 
to the conditions set out in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the 
date of approving the Directors’ Report. Directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance with an indemnity limit of £10m has been purchased in order to 
minimise the potential impact of proceedings against Directors. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 35
Major interests in shares
The Company has been notified, either directly or in response to 
a section 793 request made on its behalf, of the following interests 
representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at 29 February 2016:
Number
Percentage
held
Schroder Investment Management 8,890,000 14.05%
JO Hambro Capital Management 6,885,000 10.88%
Kestrel Opportunities 6,847,664 10.82%
Majedie Asset Management 4,927 ,967 7.79%
Herald Investment Management 4,868,774 7.70%
Hargreave Hale, stockbrokers 3,505,000 5.54%
Mrs MA Green 3,073,290 4.86%
Investec Wealth & Investment 3,058,230 4.83%
Blevins Franks Trustees Limited 
as Trustee of the Lusitania Trust 2,178,091 3.44%
Mr Stephen William Purchase 2,001,678 3.16%
Artemis Investment Management 2,000,000 3.16%
Political donations
No donations were made in 2015 or 2014.
Social and community
No social or community review has been performed for 2015 or 2014.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting
The special business to be conducted at the AGM covers the Directors’ 
authority to allot shares and the partial disapplication of pre-emption 
rights. Resolutions will be proposed to renew the authorities given to 
the Directors to allot and grant rights over the unissued share capital 
up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,054,516 representing one-third 
of the issued ordinary share capital as at 7 March 2016 and to allot 
and grant rights over shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount 
of £158,177 , representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital 
as at 7 March 2016, without first making a pro rata offer to all 
existing shareholders.
Further special business to be conducted at the AGM relates to the 
renewal of the authority of the Company to make market purchases 
of its own ordinary shares, and the authority to call meetings (other 
than Annual General Meetings) on not less than 14 clear days’ notice. 
Resolutions will be proposed in this regard. In relation to the purchase 
of own shares, the Company’s authority will be limited to 6,327 ,098 
ordinary shares which represents 10% of the issued ordinary shares 
capital of the Company as at 7 March 2016.
In the opinion of the Directors, the passing of these resolutions is in the 
best interests of the shareholders.
Additional information for shareholders
At 31 December 2015, the Company’s issued share capital comprised:
Number
Nominal
value
£
% of total
share capital
Ordinary shares 
of £0.05 each 63,270,978 3,163,549 100%
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, certain share options granted 
under the Option Scheme 2010 were exercised and as a result the 
Group issued 37 ,500 ordinary shares, such shares ranking pari passu 
with ordinary shares then in issue (2014: 2,697 ,500). See note 22 of the 
Group financial statements on page 73 for further details.
Ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy 
and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. 
The notice of the general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising 
voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or by proxy 
in relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. All proxy 
votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation 
to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting 
and published on the Group’s website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company 
other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws and market 
requirements relating to close periods).
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended 
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. 
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting 
of the shareholders. The Board may appoint a Director but anyone 
so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next 
Annual General Meeting. Any Director who has held office for more 
than three years since their last appointment by shareholders at a 
general meeting must offer themselves up for re-election at the 
following Annual General Meeting.
Significant interests
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the 
table on page 34. Major interests (i.e. those >3%) of which the Company 
has been notified are shown on page 35.
Change of control
In the event of a change of control of the Company, employee share 
options granted under the Option Scheme 2010 will either accelerate 
vesting, will be rolled over to the acquiring company’s shares or will 
lapse, depending on the circumstances of the change. Further details 
are provided in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) 
because of a takeover bid. Corporate Governance
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 36
Power of Directors to issue or buy back shares
The Directors’ existing authorities to allot and grant rights over the unissued share capital, to allot and grant rights over the unissued share capital 
for cash without first making a pro rata offer to all existing shareholders and to make market purchases of shares in the issued share capital of the 
Company are due to expire at the upcoming AGM. Resolutions will be put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM of the Company to renew 
previous authorities granted.
Information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts
As part of our requirements under the FCA Listing Rules (“LR”), for the purposes of LR 9.8.4 R the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R 
can be found in the following locations in this Annual Report:
LR 9.8.4 R Topic Location in Annual Report
(1) Interest capitalised Not applicable
(2) Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(4) Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable
(5) Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable
(6) Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable
(7) Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
(8) Item (7) in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable
(9) Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable
(10) Contracts of significance Page 33
(11) Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable
(12) Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable
(13) Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report.
Auditor
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Group’s auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ Report are listed on pages 20 and 21. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors and of the Group’s auditor, each of these Directors confirms that:
 • to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no information (that is, information needed by the Group’s auditor in connection 
with preparing their report) of which the Group’s auditor is unaware; and
 • each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Jonathan Cathie
Company Secretary
7 March 2016
Directors’ report continued
Registered number 1072032 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 37
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union and 
have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting 
Requirements and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework and applicable law. Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company 
and of the profit or loss for the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 • state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 • prepare a strategic report, directors’ report and directors’ 
remuneration report which comply with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy.
Website publication
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report and 
the financial statements are made available on a website. Financial 
statements are published on the Company’s website in accordance 
with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website is the responsibility of the Directors. The Directors’ responsibility 
also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements 
contained therein.
Directors’ responsibilities pursuant to DTR 4
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge:
 • the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with “IFRSs” adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit and loss of the Group; and
 • the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the financial position of the Group 
and the Parent Company, together with a description or the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  Financial
 Statements
39 Independent auditor’s report
42 Consolidated income statement 
43  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
44  Consolidated statement of financial position
45  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
46 Consolidated statement of cashflow
47 Notes to the financial statements 
78 Company balance sheet
79 Company statement of changes in equity
80  Notes to the company financial statements
88 Corporate information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 39
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion: 
 • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union;
 • the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and
 • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements of Gresham Computing PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015 comprise the consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, 
the consolidated statement of cashflows, the Company balance sheet, the Company statement of changes in equity and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) including Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” .
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 37 , the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements. For planning, we consider 
materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are 
taken on the basis of the financial statements. Importantly, misstatements below this level will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also 
take account of the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the 
financial statements.
We determined planning materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be £144,000. In determining this, we based our assessment on a level 
of 1% of anticipated consolidated revenue which we believe is a key benchmark used by the Group in assessing financial performance. On the 
basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Company’s control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality 
for the financial statements should be 75% of planning materiality, namely £108,000. Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that 
total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality of £144,000 for the financial statements as a whole. 
Materiality levels used for each key component ranged from £42,000 to £108,000. We agreed with the audit committee that we would report 
to the committee all audit differences in excess of £3,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. The Group audit team, based in the UK, performed the audits of the key reporting components in the UK and North America. 
The audits of the Asia Pacific region were performed by component auditors, based in Australia. Detailed instructions were issued and discussed 
with the component auditors, and these covered the significant risks (including the Group risks of material misstatement described below) that 
should be addressed by the audit team. The group audit team was actively involved in directing the audit strategy of the Asia Pacific audit, 
reviewed in detail the findings and considered the impact of these upon the Group audit opinion. 
Independent auditor’s report Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 40
Independent auditor’s report continued
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
We identified the following risks that we believe to have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope:
 • Development costs – as detailed in the accounting policies, development costs are recognised as an intangible asset if specific criteria have been met. 
Upon completion of development, the costs are amortised to the income statement over a period ranging from six to 20 years. Both the initial 
conclusion of whether development costs have met the criteria for capitalisation including estimates of the technical and commercial viability 
of the asset created, and the period of amortisation to the income statement require management judgement and therefore have an inherent 
risk of management override.
  We reviewed the Group’s accounting policy in this area to ensure that it was in accordance with International Accounting Standard 38. 
We agreed a sample of capitalised costs to underlying supporting documentation and checked that the five criteria for capitalisation, as required 
by the standard, had been met. This included discussing the technical feasibility of projects with the development team, as well as reviewing 
management’s estimate of costs to complete projects and evidence of future economic benefits. Furthermore, we specifically reviewed costs 
capitalised as enhancements to software available for sale, ensured that the enhancements did not supersede existing development costs and 
determined whether such enhancements met each of the five criteria for capitalisation under the standard. 
  In respect of enhancements released to the market during the year, we inspected evidence of when the development projects were first available 
for sale by reference to communication with customers and prospective customers, board minutes and market announcements. We performed 
our own calculation of amortisation charges based on these dates and compared this with management’s own calculations. We challenged 
the amortisation rates used by management against external benchmarking reports of companies operating in the sector, together with 
internal benchmarking based on legacy software.
 • Goodwill and intangible asset impairment risk – as detailed in the accounting policies, goodwill and capitalised development costs during 
development are tested for impairment at least annually. Furthermore, once available for use, capitalised development costs are tested for 
impairment where an indicator of impairment arises. Management’s review found no evidence of impairment in the Clareti or other cash-generating 
units. This risk is considered significant due to the level of judgement involved and the opportunity for management bias within the impairment 
model assumptions.
  We performed a review of the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets and examined for indicators of impairment. We also reviewed impairment 
reviews prepared by management, specifically reviewing the integrity of management’s value-in-use model and, with the assistance of our valuation 
specialists, we challenged the key inputs; those being forecast growth rates, operating cashflows and the discount rate. Our audit procedures 
for the review of operating cashflows included, amongst others, comparing the forecast to recent financial performance and budgets approved 
by the Board. Cashflows forecast for development projects were assessed for reasonableness against known sales pipeline opportunities. 
We also performed our own sensitivity analysis upon the key valuation inputs.
 • Revenue and profit recognition – as detailed in the accounting policies, the Group earns revenue from sale of software licenses, rendering 
of services, subscriptions and maintenance and solution sales. Management exercise judgement in their assessment of the ultimate profitability 
of contracts, and in particular the stage of completion which is a key driver for the recognition of both revenue and profit. The estimation 
of the stage of completion, along with the unbundling of multi-element solution sales, represents the risk of revenue recognition.
  We reviewed in detail the revenue recognition principles applied to the significant new contracts written and performed during the year 
and ensured that the revenue recognition policies were in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union and industry standard. We inspected particularly solution sales and assessed the appropriateness of unbundling revenue into 
separate components along with the fair value of the consideration attributed to each component. We agreed a sample of sales and related 
costs of sales to supporting contracts and other documentation, including user acceptance evidence and statements of works.
The audit committee’s consideration of these judgements is set out on page 25.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 • the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 • the information given in the strategic report and directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 41
Statement regarding the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity 
of the Company
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 • the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 • the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 • the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 • the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so 
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
 • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or 
 • is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 • the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
 • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 • the directors’ statements, set out on pages 33 and 13, in relation to going concern, long-term viability, assessment of risk and the principal risks 
themselves; and
 • the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Kim Hayward (senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP , statutory auditor
Southampton
United Kingdom
7 March 2016
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127). Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 42
Consolidated income statement
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Before
exceptional items
£’000
Exceptional
items
£’000
Total
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 3,4 14,842 — 14,842 12,832 
Cost of sales (2,822) — (2,822) (3,409)
Gross profit 12,020 — 12,020 9,423 
Administrative expenses (10,310) (149) (10,459) (8,991)
Operating profit/(loss) 5 1,710 (149) 1,561 432 
Finance revenue 3,8 21 — 21 36 
Finance costs 8 — — — (12)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1,731 (149) 1,582 456 
Taxation 9 368 — 368 639 
Attributable to owners of the parent 23 2,099 (149) 1,950 1,095 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share – pence 10 3.32 (0.24) 3.08 1.77 
Diluted earnings per share – pence 10 3.21 (0.23) 2.98 1.62 
All activities during the year were continuing. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 43
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
31 December
2015
£’000
31 December
2014
£’000
Attributable profit for the year 1,950 1,095 
Other comprehensive expense
Items that will or may be reclassified into profit or loss – exchange differences (27) (55)
(27) (55)
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,923 1,040 
The tax effect of exchange differences recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is a credit of £5,000 
(2014: credit of £11,000).  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 44
Consolidated statement of financial position
Notes
31 December
2015
£’000
31 December
2014
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 499 617 
Intangible assets 13 10,648 8,313 
Deferred tax assets 9 239 547 
11,386 9,477 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 3,472 3,303 
Income tax receivable 16 892 1,224 
Cash and cash equivalents 17 4,666 4,707 
9,030 9,234 
Total assets 20,416 18,711 
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Called up equity share capital 21 3,164 3,162 
Share premium account 23 9 16,522 
Other reserves 23 313 313 
Foreign currency translation reserve 23 (65) (38)
Retained earnings 23 11,513 (7,069)
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 23 14,934 12,890 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred income 18 53 82 
Provisions 18 24 28 
77 110 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 5,294 5,645 
Financial liabilities 18 3 — 
Income tax payable 18 89 58 
Provisions 18 19 8 
5,405 5,711 
Total liabilities 5,482 5,821 
Total equity and liabilities 20,416 18,711 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 7 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
7 March 2016 7 March 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 45
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Currency
translation
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 3,027 15,906 313 17 (8,214) 11,049 
Attributable profit for the period — — — — 1,095 1,095 
Other comprehensive expense — — — (55) — (55)
Total comprehensive income — — — (55) 1,095 1,040 
Exercise of share options 135 616 — — — 751 
Share-based payment expense — — — — 50 50 
At 31 December 2014 3,162 16,522 313 (38) (7,069) 12,890 
Attributable profit for the period — — — — 1,950 1,950
Other comprehensive expense — — — (27) — (27)
Total comprehensive income — — — (27) 1,950 1,923
Share premium cancellation — (16,522) — — 16,522 — 
Exercise of share options 2 9 — — — 11 
Share-based payment expense — — — — 110 110 
At 31 December 2015 3,164 9 313 (65) 11,513 14,934 Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 46
Consolidated statement of cashflow
 Notes
31 December
2015 
£’000 
31 December
2014 
£’000 
Cashflows from operating activities 
Profit before taxation 1,582 456 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 5 976 692 
Share-based payment expense 22 110 50 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (217) 1,559 
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (277) 291 
Movement in provisions 18 7 15 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment — 6 
Net finance expense 8 (21) (24)
Cash inflow from operations 2,160 3,045 
Net income taxes received 1,035 15 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,195 3,060 
Cashflows from investing activities 
Interest received 8 21 36 
Other bank charges — (12)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (217) (244)
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets 13 (3,014) (3,238)
Net cash used in investing activities (3,210) (3,458)
Cashflows from financing activities 
Share issue 21 11 751 
Net cash generated from financing activities 11 751 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (4) 353 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,707 4,386 
Exchange adjustments (37) (32)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 4,666 4,707  Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 47
Notes to the financial statements
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRSs
Gresham Computing plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded 
as a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The financial statements of Gresham Computing plc and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised 
for issue by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2016 and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was signed on the Board’s behalf by 
I Manocha and R Grubb. 
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out below.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 and applied in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. 
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for property provisions and derivative financial instruments 
which have been measured at fair value.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. For the year ended 
31 December 2015, the Company recorded a loss of £212,000 (2014: loss of £943,000).
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (“£’000”) except when 
otherwise indicated.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported 
for assets and liabilities as at the statement of financial position date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. 
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Capitalised development costs
Development costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets and costs that meet the qualifying criteria are capitalised and 
systematically amortised over the useful economic life of the intangible asset. Determining whether development costs qualify for capitalisation 
as intangible assets requires judgement, including estimates of the technical and commercial viability of the asset created and its applicable useful 
economic life. These estimates are continually reviewed and updated based on past experience and reviews of competitor products available 
in the market. 
The capitalised development cost is disclosed in note 13 and the impairment review performed is disclosed in note 14.
Impairment reviews
The Group performs impairment reviews at the reporting period end to identify any intangible assets that have a carrying value that is in excess 
of its recoverable value. Determining the recoverability of an intangible asset requires judgement in both the methodology applied and the key 
variables within that methodology. Where it is determined that an intangible asset is impaired, its carrying value will be reduced to its recoverable 
value with the difference recorded as an impairment charge in the income statement.
The intangible asset impairment reviews are disclosed in note 14.
Revenue and profit recognition
Fixed price contracts are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts. Revenue and profits are recognised on a  
percentage-of-completion basis, as costs incurred relate to total costs for the contract, when the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably. 
Determining whether a contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably requires management to exercise judgement, whilst calculation of the contract’s 
profit requires estimates of the total contract costs to completion. Cost estimates and judgements are continually reviewed and updated as 
determined by events or circumstances.
Revenue recognised in the period is disclosed in note 3, with further analysis provided in note 4.
Useful economic life of capitalised development costs
The assessment of the useful economic life of capitalised development costs is estimated by management based on past experience and reviews 
of competitor products available in the market.  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 48
2. Accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Gresham Computing plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) drawn 
up to 31 December each year. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated 
until the date that such control ceases, at which point they are deconsolidated. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights, currently 
exercisable or convertible potential voting rights, or by way of contractual agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for 
the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including 
unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying an approximation of the spot exchange rate ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate 
of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date. All differences are taken to the income statement, except when hedge accounting 
is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken 
directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date. 
Income and expenses are translated at weighted average exchange rates for the year. The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a 
separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular 
foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the 
initial transactions. 
On transition to IFRS from 1 January 2004, the exemption available under IFRS 1 was taken to start the currency translation reserve at nil.
Goodwill
Business combinations on or after 1 January 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost 
of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised 
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entity’s 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised. 
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, 
at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at geographical 
segment level or statutory company level as the case may be. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying 
amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, 
or of an operation within it. Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves even if the related 
investment becomes impaired or the business is disposed of.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and expenditure 
is reflected in the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful economic lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that 
they may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at each 
financial year end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation 
expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement in the expense category consistent with the function of the 
intangible asset.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Purchased intangibles with finite lives, including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights, are capitalised at 
cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life of these intangible assets ranges between 
two and ten years depending on their nature. Amortisation charges in respect of intangible assets are included in administrative expenses.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 49
2. Accounting policies continued
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an intangible asset when the Group 
can demonstrate: the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its 
ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability 
to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Capitalised product development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Product development costs 
that have been capitalised are amortised from the time the product or related enhancement becomes available for use as part of a version release 
issued to customers on a straight-line basis over six to 20 years depending on the useful economic life of the asset assessed. During the period 
of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the aggregate 
amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset 
capable of operating as intended. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows:
 • Fixtures and fittings – over the term of the underlying property lease. 
 • Plant and equipment – over lives ranging between one and ten years to write down the assets to their residual value based on current prices 
for an asset of the age the plant and equipment is expected to be at the end of its useful life. 
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Useful lives and residual values are reviewed 
annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Leases
Group as a lessee
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are 
capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding liability being recognised for the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges 
in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Assets held under finance leases are 
depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals 
payable are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor
Where the Group has spare capacity in offices held under operating leases and where the head lease permits, the Group sublets leases space 
acting in a lessor capacity. The rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and shown separately from the Group’s 
full obligation under the head operating lease.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount 
is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount 
of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used, incorporating 
industry standard valuation multiples or other available fair value indicators. Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the 
income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer 
exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. 
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. Impairment charges on goodwill are considered permanent 
and cannot be reversed. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss. After such a reversal the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining 
useful life. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 50
2. Accounting policies continued
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect is material, expected 
future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance policy, the reimbursement is recognised as 
a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any 
reimbursement. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified: as financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held-to maturity investments; or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Group 
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each 
financial year end. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial 
assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded 
derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it. The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair 
value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract. Reassessment only 
occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cashflows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell 
the asset. Regular way transactions require delivery of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the market 
place. The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows:
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify 
as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale. Such assets are initially valued at fair 
value and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised 
in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are included in this category. Financial assets are 
classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified 
as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or as financial guarantee contracts. Assets are carried in the statement 
of financial position at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available for sale by the Directors, taking into account 
the stage of any marketing or sales activity to promote an end sale. After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value 
with gains or losses being recognised within the Statement of Comprehensive Income until the investment is derecognised or until the investment 
is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. 
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured 
as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cashflows (excluding future credit losses that have 
not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in administration costs.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after 
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time value of money 
is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover 
balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying 
amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 51
2. Accounting policies continued
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts represent revenue recognised to date less amounts invoiced to clients. Full provision is made for known 
or anticipated project losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with 
an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cashflow, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates 
and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
R&D tax credits are recognised on an accruals basis and recorded as a credit in the taxation line of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
 • where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
 • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future; and
 • deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability 
is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the 
same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to other 
comprehensive income or directly to equity. Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability , such 
that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. 
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Pensions
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become payable. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 52
2. Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
Revenue, comprising sales of products and services to third parties, is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, 
rebates, VAT and other sales taxes. The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Software licences
Revenue on software licences is recognised when all of the following criteria are met:
 • persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, such as a signed contract or purchase order;
 • delivery has occurred and no future elements to be delivered are essential to the functionality of the delivered element;
 • the fee is fixed or determinable; and 
 • collectability is probable.
Rendering of services
Revenue and profits from the provision of professional services, such as implementation, development, training and consultancy, are recognised 
on a percentage-of-completion basis, as costs incurred relate to total costs for the contract, when the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably. 
Determining whether a contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably requires management to exercise judgement, whilst calculation of the contract’s 
profit requires estimates of the total contract costs to completion. Cost estimates and judgements are continually reviewed and updated as 
determined by events or circumstances.
Subscriptions and maintenance
Revenue from subscription and maintenance services is recognised rateably over the period of the contract. 
Solution sales
Contracts for the delivery of solutions with multiple elements, typically involving software licences, rendering of services, subscriptions, maintenance 
and hardware, are unbundled where possible and revenue is recognised based on the accounting policy applicable to each constituent part.
Where objective unbundling of a solution is not possible, revenue is recognised as that proportion of the total contract value which costs incurred 
to date bear to total expected costs for that contract. Profit is recognised on such contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable 
certainty, by including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses. 
Interest income
Interest income is recognised as finance revenue as interest accrues using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
Rental income
Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pre-contract costs/bid costs
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed preferred bidder. Preferred bidder status provides sufficient confidence 
that the conclusion of the contract is probable and the outcome can be reliably measured and is expected to generate sufficient net cash inflows 
to enable recovery. Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder are capitalised onto the balance sheet under 
prepayments and accrued income. The prepayment is expensed to the income statement over the period of the contract. Costs, which have 
been expensed, are not subsequently reinstated when a contract award is achieved.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised 
as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. 
Fair value of awards with a market condition-based performance target is determined by an external valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares 
of the Company (market conditions).
Fair value of awards with a financial result-based performance target is determined by management using the Black Scholes pricing model.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which 
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity 
instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a 
corresponding entry in equity.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 53
2. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments continued
Equity-settled transactions continued
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based 
on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder 
of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award 
and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date 
is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The share-based payment expense is recognised as a staff cost and the associated credit entry is made against equity. 
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled 
awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature 
or amount.
Changes in accounting policy
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following new standards have been adopted and are effective for the current year. 
Standard or interpretation Title Effective from
IFRS 2 Amendments for Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (definition of vesting condition) 1 July 2014
IFRS 3 Amendments for Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (contingent consideration) 1 July 2014
IFRS 3 Amendments for Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle (scope exception for joint ventures) 1 July 2014
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Annual Improvements 2012–2014 Cycle 1 January 2015
IFRS 8 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010–2012 Cycle (aggregation of segments, 
reconciliation of segment assets)
1 July 2014
IFRS 9 Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, 
general hedge accounting and derecognition
1 January 2018
IFRS 13 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2011–2013 Cycle (scope of the portfolio exception 
in paragraph 52)
1 July 2014
IAS 16 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010–2012 Cycle (proportionate restatement of 
accumulated depreciation on revaluation)
1 July 2014
IAS 24 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010–2012 Cycle (management entities) 1 July 2014
IAS 38 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010–2012 Cycle (proportionate restatement of 
accumulated depreciation on revaluation)
1 July 2014
The adoption of these pronouncements has not impacted the classification or measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities, nor has it resulted 
in any additional disclosures. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 54
2. Accounting policies continued
Changes in accounting policy continued
New standards and interpretations not applied
IASB and IFRIC have issued the following relevant standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements:
Standard or interpretation Title Effective from
IFRS 5 Amendments resulting from September 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2016
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Annual Improvements 2012–2014 Cycle 1 January 2015
IFRS 9 Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, 
general hedge accounting and derecognition
1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Original issue, amended to defer effective date 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Original issue 1 January 2019
IAS 1 Amendments resulting from the disclosure initiative 1 January 2016
IAS 16 Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016
IAS 27 Amendments reinstating the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates in an entity’s separate financial statements
1 January 2016
IAS 34 Amendments resulting from the September 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2016
IAS 38 Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application.
The effective dates stated here are those given in the original IASB/IFRIC standards and interpretations. As the Group prepares its financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having 
been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU endorsement mechanism. In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with 
that given in the original standard or interpretation, but the need for endorsement restricts the Group’s discretion to early adopt standards.
Revenue from continuing operations disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
3. Revenue
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Rendering of services 14,842 12,832 
Finance revenue 21 36 
14,863 12,868 
4. Segment information
The segmental disclosures reflect the analysis presented on a monthly basis to the chief operating decision maker of the business, the Chief Executive 
and the Board of Directors. 
In addition, split of revenues and non-current assets by the UK and overseas have been included as they are specifically required 
by IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group re-evaluated the internal presentation of its operating segments to more appropriately 
aggregate the differing sets of risks that the Group’s businesses face.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into the following reportable segments:
 • Clareti Solutions – supply of solutions predominantly to the finance and banking markets across Asia Pacific, EMEA and North America. These solutions 
include Clareti Transaction Control (“CTC”) currently and for future periods will include other associated Clareti platform applications.
 • Other Solutions – supply of a range of well established solutions to enterprise-level customers in a variety of end markets. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 55
4. Segment information continued
The change has had the following impact on classification of operating segments:
Previous classification Current classification
RTFS CTC Clareti Solutions
 Non-CTC RTFS Other Solutions
Software Other Solutions
“RTFS” refers to Real-Time Financial Solutions, and “EMEA” refers to Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Disclosures in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 have been updated accordingly.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment revenue, 
segment expense and segment result include transfers between business segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
Year ended 31 December 2015
Clareti Solutions
£’000
Other Solutions
£’000
Adjustments,
central and
eliminations
£’000
Consolidated 
£’000
Revenue
External customer 5,270 9,572 — 14,842 
Inter-segment — — — — 
Total revenue 5,270 9,572 — 14,842 
— — 
Cost of sales (172) (2,650) — (2,822)
Gross profit 5,098 6,922 — 12,020 
97% 72% 81%
Administrative expenses — — (10,310) (10,310)
Operating profit/(loss) 5,098 6,922 (10,310) 1,710 
Interest revenue 21 
Interest expense — 
Profit before taxation before exceptional items 1,731 
Exceptional items (149)
Profit before taxation after exceptional items   1,582 
Taxation   368 
Profit after taxation   1,950 
Segment assets 20,416 
Segment liabilities (5,482) Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 56
4. Segment information continued
Year ended 31 December 2014
Clareti Solutions
£’000
Other Solutions
£’000
Adjustments,
central and
eliminations
£’000
Consolidated 
£’000
Revenue
External customer 3,470 9,362 — 12,832 
Inter-segment — — — — 
Total revenue 3,470 9,362 — 12,832 
— — 
Cost of sales (459) (2,950) — (3,409)
Gross profit 3,011 6,412 — 9,423 
87% 68% 73%
Administrative expenses — — (8,991) (8,991)
Operating profit/(loss) 3,011 6,412 (8,991) 432 
Interest revenue 36 
Interest expense (12)
Profit before taxation before exceptional items 456 
Exceptional items — 
Profit before taxation after exceptional items 456 
Taxation  639 
Profit after taxation  1,095 
Segment assets 18,711 
Segment liabilities (5,821)
Administrative expenses, segment assets and segment liabilities are shared across the Group and cannot be allocated to operating segments.
The Group has customer relationships with two banking customers which are both considered by the Directors to be individually significant 
relationships; revenue from these relationships both individually exceeded 10% of the Group’s revenue. The revenues from these two customers 
fall predominantly within the Other Solutions segment.
Exceptional items
In H1 2015 the Group completed its planned CEO succession, which incurred a number of one-off costs from professional advisers involved 
throughout the process. 
In H2 2015 the Group undertook a review of its marketing and operating activities and made changes that resulted in a number of one-off costs 
being incurred. These one-off costs totalled £149,000 and have been disclosed as exceptional items. There were no exceptional items for the 
year ended 31 December 2014.
Geographic information
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenues from external customers (by destination)
EMEA 8,362 7,241 
North America 1,317 786 
Asia Pacific 5,163 4,805 
14,842 12,832 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 57
4. Segment information continued
Geographic information continued
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
UK 10,538 8,612
North America 109 82
Asia Pacific 739 783
11,386 9,477
Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and deferred tax assets.
EMEA includes revenue from external customers located primarily in the UK, Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
Asia Pacific includes revenue from external customers located primarily in Australia, Malaysia and Singapore.
5. Group trading profit
The Group trading profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Research and development costs written off 128 98 
Amortisation of deferred development costs recognised in administrative expenses 531 329 
Total research and development costs 659 427 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 322 292 
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding development costs) 123 71 
Total depreciation, impairment and amortisation expense 445 363 
Net foreign currency differences – gains/(losses) 25 (108)
Operating lease payments
Minimum lease payments 524 429 
Sublease income (129) (23)
395 406 
Exceptional items
In H1 2015 the Group completed its planned CEO succession, which incurred a number of one-off costs from professional advisers involved 
throughout the process. In H2 2015 the Group undertook a review of its marketing and operating activities and made changes that resulted 
in a number of one-off costs being incurred. These one-off costs totalled £149,000 and have been disclosed as exceptional items. There were 
no exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2014. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 58
6. Auditor’s remuneration 
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group. 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Audit fees
Audit of the Group financial statements 20 18 
Other fees to auditor – auditing the accounts of subsidiaries 40 38 
60 56 
Non-audit fees
Corporate taxation services 54 79 
Other 17 2 
71 81 
7 . Staff costs and Directors’ emoluments
(a) Staff and Director costs 
31 December 2015
Income
statement
£’000
Development
capitalised
£’000
Total
£’000
Wages and salaries 6,249  1,972  8,221 
Social security costs 533  245  778 
Other pension costs 284  76  360 
 7,066  2,293  9,359 
31 December 2014
Income
statement
£’000
Development
capitalised
£’000
Total
£’000
Wages and salaries 5,372  2,131  7,503 
Social security costs 485  251  736 
Other pension costs 257  72  329 
 6,114  2,454  8,568 
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense of share-based payments of £110,000 (2014: £50,000) all of which arises from transactions 
accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 
2015 2014
Management 9  8 
Sales and administration 21  21 
Technical 81  79 
 111  108 
(b) Directors’ emoluments
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Directors’ emoluments
Remuneration 457 377 
Social security costs 59 35 
Pension 16 13 
Share-based payments 36 — 
568 425 
Number of Directors accruing benefits under defined contribution schemes 2 2
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 59
8. Finance revenue and costs
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Finance revenue
Bank interest receivable 21 36 
Total finance revenue 21 36 
Finance costs
Other bank charges — 12 
Total finance costs — 12 
9. Taxation
(a) Tax on loss on ordinary activities
Tax credited in the income statement
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current income tax
Overseas tax credit – adjustment to previous years (21) (29)
Overseas tax charge – current year 139 69 
UK corporation tax charge – adjustment to previous years 98 29 
UK corporation tax credit – current year (892) (877)
Total current income tax (676) (808)
Deferred income tax
Reversal of deferred tax asset 322 93 
Tax rate change adjustments (14) 76 
Total deferred income tax 308 169 
Total credit in the income statement (368) (639)
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge 
The tax credit in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.3% (2014: 21.5%). 
The differences are reconciled below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit before taxation 1,582 456 
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.3%/21.5% 321 98 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (31) 12 
Differences in tax rates (7) 65 
Overseas tax credit – adjustment to previous years (21) (29)
R&D tax credit – previous year 98 29 
R&D tax credit – current year (892) (877)
Losses surrendered for R&D tax credit – current year 1,246 1,358 
R&D enhanced relief (692) (755)
Movement in unrecognised losses carried forward 129 449 
Movement in unrecognised temporary differences (486) (643)
Movement in unrecognised fixed asset temporary differences 5 44 
Temporary difference on share-based payments (24) (537)
Prior year adjustments on recognised deferred tax — 71 
Tax rate change adjustments (14) 76 
Total tax credit reported in the income statement (368) (639) Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 60
9. Taxation continued
(c) Unrecognised tax losses
The Group has tax losses that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose as 
analysed in (e) below. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits 
elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss making for some time.
The tax effect of exchange differences recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is a credit of £5,000 
(2014: credit of £11,000). 
(d) Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At 31 December 2015, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2014: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings 
of certain of the Group’s subsidiaries as the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the 
foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to £nil 
(2014: £nil).
(e) Deferred tax 
Recognised deferred tax
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
1 January 547  716 
Movement in the period (322) (93) 
Impact of change in tax rate 14 (76) 
31 December  239 547 
Comprising:
Temporary differences 42 (21) 
Tax losses 197  568 
31 December 239  547 
A deferred tax charge of £322,000 has been recognised in the year in respect of tax losses and capital allowances in excess of depreciation 
and other temporary differences.
Unrecognised potential deferred tax assets
The deferred tax not recognised in the Group Statement of Financial Position is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Temporary differences (1,421) (921)
Tax losses 2,150 2,291 
Unrecognised deferred tax asset 729 1,370 
Gross temporary differences unrecognised (7,169) (4,913)
Gross tax losses unrecognised 10,173 10,140 
Gross deferred tax asset unrecognised 3,004 5,227 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 61
9. Taxation continued
(e) Deferred tax continued
Future tax rates
The main rate of corporation tax for UK companies reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. Finance Bill 2015, which was substantively enacted 
on 26 October 2015, announced further reductions to the main rate of corporation tax. The rate will reduce to 19% from 1 April 2017 and by a further 
1% to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The Group’s recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets in the UK, Australian and US subsidiaries have been shown at the rates in the 
following table, being the substantively enacted rates in these countries.
2015 2014
UK 18%/20% 20%
Australia 30% 30%
US 40% 40%
10. Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit or loss for the year attributable to owners of the Parent by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit or loss attributable to owners of the Parent by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion 
of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares except when such dilutive instruments would reduce the loss per share.
The following reflects the earnings and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Basic weighted average number of shares 63,238,526 61,992,825 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Employee share options – weighted (note 22) 2,178,202 5,468,653 
Diluted weighted average number of shares 65,416,728 67 ,461,478 
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Before
exceptional
items
£’000
Exceptional items
£’000
Total
£’000
Total
£’000
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 2,099 (149) 1,950 1,095 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share – pence 3.32 (0.24) 3.08 1.77 
Diluted earnings per share – pence 3.21 (0.23) 2.98 1.62 
During the year ended 31 December 2015, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Plans were exercised and the Group issued 
37 ,500 (2014: 2,697 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial 
statements for further details.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date 
of completion of this Annual Report.
11. Dividends paid and proposed
No dividends were declared or paid during the year and no dividends will be proposed for approval at the AGM (2014: none). Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 62
12. Property, plant and equipment
31 December 2015 
Fixtures
and fittings
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 572 738 1,310 
Additions 93 124 217 
Disposals (33) (46) (79)
Exchange adjustment (49) 25 (24)
At 31 December 583 841 1,424 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January (234) (459) (693)
Charge for year (152) (170) (322)
Disposals 33 45 78 
Exchange adjustment 14 (2) 12 
At 31 December (339) (586) (925)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 244 255 499 
At 1 January 338 279 617 
31 December 2014 
Fixtures
and fittings
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 562 797 1,359 
Additions 62 182 244 
Disposals (47) (236) (283)
Exchange adjustment (5) (5) (10)
At 31 December 572 738 1,310 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January (151) (534) (685)
Charge for year (133) (159) (292)
Disposals 47 230 277 
Exchange adjustment 3 4 7 
At 31 December (234) (459) (693)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 338 279 617 
At 1 January 411 263 674 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 63
13. Intangible assets
31 December 2015 
Development
costs
£’000
Patents and
licences
£’000
Goodwill
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Cost
At 1 January 12,201 1,568 903 14,672 
Additions 2,911 103 — 3,014 
Exchange adjustment — 2 (27) (25)
At 31 December 15,112 1,673 876 17,661 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January (4,975) (1,134) (250) (6,359)
Charge for year (531) (123) — (654)
Exchange adjustment — — — — 
At 31 December (5,506) (1,257) (250) (7 ,013)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 9,606 416 626 10,648 
At 1 January 7 ,226 434 653 8,313 
31 December 2014 
Development 
costs 
£’000 
Patents and 
licences 
£’000 
Goodwill 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Cost
At 1 January 9,100 1,429 925 11,454 
Additions 3,099 139 — 3,238 
Exchange adjustment 2 — (22) (20)
At 31 December 12,201 1,568 903 14,672 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January (4,644) (1,065) (250) (5,959)
Charge for year (329) (71) — (400)
Exchange adjustment (2) 2 — — 
At 31 December (4,975) (1,134) (250) (6,359)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 7,226 434 653 8,313 
At 1 January 4,456 364 675 5,495 
Development costs
Development costs are internally generated and are capitalised at cost. These intangible assets have been assessed as having a finite life and are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of six to 20 years. These assets are tested for impairment where an indicator of impairment 
arises and annually prior to them being made available for use. Development costs have a remaining life of 17 years.
Patents and licences
Patents and licences are the third party costs incurred in seeking and obtaining protection for certain of the Group’s products and services. 
These intangible assets have been assessed as having a finite life and are being amortised evenly over their useful economic life, to a maximum 
of ten years. Patents have a remaining life of three years and licences have a remaining life of one to ten years.
Goodwill
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of our Asia Pacific real-time financial solutions business. It is assessed as having an indefinite life and is assessed 
for impairment at least annually.  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 64
14. Impairment of goodwill and intangibles
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to one individual cash-generating unit (“CGU”), the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, for impairment testing.
Carrying amount of goodwill
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
Clareti Solutions CGU 626  653 
Development costs (finite life)
Development costs are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis prior to being made available for use, or sooner where an indicator 
of impairment exists. The following table summarises the net book value of development costs:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Clareti Solutions CGU 9,606 7,226 
Clareti Solutions cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of this CGU has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation. To calculate this, cashflow projections are based 
on financial budgets approved by the Board for 2016, which are extrapolated for five years, and extended beyond five years, which the Board considers 
appropriate given the long-term opportunities that exists in the Asia Pacific, EMEA and North American regions. The discount rate applied to cashflow 
projections is 15% (2014: 15%) and cashflows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate (2014: 2%) that is a prudent 
approximation to the long-term average growth rate for the region in which the CGU operates.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations
Key assumptions are made by management based on past experience taking into account external sources of information around gross margins, 
growth rates and discount rates for similar businesses.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to assumptions around:
 • operating cashflows, based on financial budgets for 2015 approved by the Board;
 • growth rates, based on internally estimated growth rates for the market and the business offerings; and
 • discount rate, based on the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of the Group.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
A change in our key assumption in respect to operating cashflows could cause the carrying value of the goodwill or development costs to exceed 
the recoverable amount, resulting in an impairment charge.
We are confident the assumptions in respect of operating cashflows remain appropriate. Where the operating cashflows incorporate products 
or solutions that will be sold in an existing known market past experience is used as a guide to the level of sales achievable, growth rates and associated 
margins. Where the operating cashflows relate to products or solutions that will be sold into a new or emerging market, past experience with similar 
products or solutions is combined with relevant information from external market sources, such as competitor pricing and discussions with potential 
customers, in arriving at the level of sales achievable, growth rates and associated margins.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 65
15. Investments
Details of Group undertakings
Details of the investments in which the Group holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital are as follows:
Name of subsidiary
company
Country of
incorporation
Holding
(shares)
Proportion of
voting rights and
shares held Nature of business
Gresham Computer Services Limited England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Financial Systems Limited England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Enterprise Storage Inc
(3)
USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pty Limited
(3)
Australia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Sdn Bhd
(1)
Malaysia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pte. Limited Singapore Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Inc
(1,3)
USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Consultancy Services Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Casablanca Software Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Circa Selection Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Technologies Limited
(2,4)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Telecomputing Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Circa Business Systems Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Cheerkeep Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
(1) Held by a subsidiary undertaking 
(2) Subsidiary exempt from UK audit under section 480a of the Companies Act 2006
(3) Subsidiary has no requirement for a local statutory audit
(4) Name changed from Gresham Software Limited on 6 March 2014
The following wholly owned subsidiaries were dissolved during the year ended 31 December 2015 following an application by the Company 
to strike off voluntarily:
 • Casablanca Software Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015.
 • Circa Selection Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015.
The following wholly owned subsidiaries were dissolved during the year ended 31 December 2014 following an application by the Company 
to strike off voluntarily:
 • Clareti Systems Limited – dissolved 1 April 2014.
 • ITEC Computer Broking Limited – dissolved 8 July 2014.
 • Gresham Computer Personal Limited – dissolved 8 July 2014. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 66
16. Trade and other receivables 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade receivables 1,546 1,794 
Provision for impairment — — 
Trade receivables – net 1,546 1,794 
Prepayments and accrued income 1,740 1,509 
Amounts recoverable on contracts 186 — 
3,472 3,303 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Income tax 892 1,224 
The following table provides disclosure of contracts in progress at the statement of financial position date:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Contracts in progress at the statement of financial position date
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 344  — 
Less: progress billings (158)  — 
186  — 
Recognised as:
Amounts recoverable on contracts 186  — 
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Sterling 438 446 
Euro 37 141 
US Dollar 496 458 
Australian Dollar 545 715 
Malaysian Ringgit 30 34 
1,546 1,794 
The Group held trade receivables with a value of £583,000 in respect of one customer at 31 December 2015 (2014: one customer with a balance 
of £635,000) which were settled during the following January and February. Otherwise, there is no significant concentration of trade receivables 
around major customers in either year. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 – 60 days’ terms and are shown net of a 
provision for impairment.
At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total
£’000
Neither past
due nor
impaired
£’000
Past due but not impaired
<30 days
£’000
30 – 60 days
£’000
60 – 90 days
£’000
90 – 120 days
£’000
>120 days
£’000
2015 1,746 663 1,043 23 1 — 16 
2014 1,794 689 780 241 79 5 — 
The Group’s customers primarily comprise national and international banks, government bodies and substantial private and public companies. 
As a result, the credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired has been assessed by the Directors to be relatively high, 
taking account of a low historic experience of bad debts and relatively good ageing profiles.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 67
17 . Cash and cash equivalents 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 4,666 4,707 
Cash at bank earns interest at both fixed term rates and floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective 
short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is the same as stated above. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had £nil (2014: £nil) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. 
For the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cashflow, cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
18. Trade, other payables, provisions and financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
Trade payables, other payables and deferred income are non-interest bearing.
Current
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade payables 436 588 
Other payables 1,188 1,265 
Deferred income 3,670 3,792 
5,294 5,645 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Financial liabilities – forward foreign currency contract (current) 3 — 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Income tax payable 89 58 
Non-current
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred income 53 82  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 68
18. Trade, other payables, provisions and financial liabilities continued
Provisions
Property 
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2015
 – Current 8 
 – Non-current 28 
36 
Amounts provided during the year 18 
Amounts released during the year (9)
At 31 December 2015
 – Current 19 
 – Non-current 24 
43 
Property 
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2014
 – Current — 
 – Non-current 21 
21 
Further amounts provided during the year 15 
At 31 December 2014
 – Current 8 
 – Non-current 28 
36 
Property provisions
The restructuring provision relates to the Group’s property portfolio and the resulting lease liabilities, comprising end of lease dilapidation costs 
and empty property costs. The provision has been discounted using a range of rates from 0.25% to 5%, which the Directors consider to be the 
relevant pre-tax risk-based rate applicable to the liability.
19. Obligations under leases
Operating lease agreements where the Group is lessee
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties that have an average minimum duration of between one and five years. 
There are no unusual restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and
buildings
2015
£’000
Other
2015
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Land and
buildings
2014
£’000
Other
2014
£’000
Total
2014
£’000
Not later than one year 325 — 325 475 — 475 
After one but not more than five years 255 — 255 593 — 593 
580 — 580 1,068 — 1,068 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 69
19. Obligations under leases continued
Operating lease agreements where the Group is lessor
The Group has entered into commercial leases as lessor on Australian and US property. There are no unusual restrictions placed upon the lessor 
by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and
buildings
2015
£’000
Other
2015
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Land and
buildings
2014
£’000
Other
2014
£’000
Total
2014
£’000
Not later than one year — 26 26 38 — 38 
After one but not more than five years — — — — — — 
— 26 26 38 — 38 
20. Financial instruments 
Objectives, policies and strategies
The Group’s objective is to finance the business through management of existing liquidity, focusing on working capital acceleration to cash 
and converting illiquid assets to liquid assets and, ultimately, cash. Investments in intangible fixed assets, property, plant and equipment have 
been made with the benefit of research and development tax credits taken as cash.
The Group’s policy towards using financial instruments is to manage credit, liquidity and currency exposure risk without exposing the Group 
to undue risk or speculation. The policy is kept under review by the Directors according to the Group’s foreign exchange and treasury policy.
Risk management
The risks arising from the Group’s operations and financial instruments are explained below.
Credit management
The Group monitors exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis. The risk of financial loss due to a counterparty failure to honour its obligations 
arises principally in relation to transactions where the Group provides solutions and services on deferred terms and where it invests or deposits 
surplus cash.
Group policies are aimed at minimising such losses, and require that deferred terms are granted only to customers who demonstrate an appropriate 
payment history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that 
the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. Solutions and services may be sold on a cash-with-order basis to mitigate credit risk. Bad debt 
insurance is not carried. 
Performance of individual businesses is monitored at both operating unit and Group level allowing the early identification of major risks and reducing 
the likelihood of an unmanaged concentration of credit risk.
Cash investments are only allowed in liquid securities with major financial institutions that satisfy specific criteria. The maximum credit risk exposure 
at the statement of financial position date is represented by the carrying value of financial assets. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Interest rate risk
The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk since it has no bank borrowings and interest receivable on cash deposits does not form 
a material part of Group income.
Capital risk
The Group defines its capital as the Group’s total equity and manages capital based on the level of net cash held. Its objective when managing 
capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, to provide an adequate 
return to investors based upon the level of risk undertaken, to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest 
in areas that may deliver future benefit to investors and to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate risks and unforeseen events.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may issue new shares or sell assets to provide additional capital. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 70
20. Financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities – by maturity
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s financial liabilities, based on contractual undiscounted payments:
Less than
one year
£’000
Between
one to two
years
£’000
Between
two to five
years
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Provisions 19 — 24 
19 — 24 
Year ended 31 December 2014
Provisions 8 12 16 
8 12 16 
All current liabilities are expected to fall due within one year of the statement of financial position date at their carrying amount.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s liquidity risk falls within the following major categories:
 • Trade receivables – a significant element of the Group’s liquidity is tied up in working capital, which primarily comprises trade receivables. 
The settlement risk associated with these assets comprises both credit risk (the risk that the counterparty will not settle at all) and liquidity risk 
(the risk that the counterparty will not settle on time).
 • Property, plant and equipment – a significant element of the Group’s liquidity is tied up in tangible fixed assets. For those assets required in the 
business for day to day operations, the Group considers the use of finance lease arrangements to reduce the amount of liquidity tied up in such assets. 
The Group keeps its investment in fixed assets under review and actively considers converting such assets to more liquid assets. 
 • Currency risk – this risk is discussed on page 72.
The Group monitors and controls liquidity through the following key controls:
 • daily cash at bank is reported to the Executive Board;
 • cash forecasts are maintained;
 • foreign exchange risks are hedged where significant; and
 • credit control is operated locally with Group oversight.
Where appropriate, discounts are offered for early payment by customers and finance lease and deferred payment arrangements are considered 
to retain or improve liquidity.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 71
20. Financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is an analysis by category of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are carried in the financial statements (there is no material 
difference between the carrying amounts and fair values):
Year ended 31 December 2015
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Fair value
through profit
 and loss
£’000
Amortised
cost
£’000
Total
carrying
amount
£’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables 1,546 — — 1,546 
Accrued income 1,009 — — 1,009 
Cash and cash equivalents 4,666 — — 4,666 
7,221 — — 7,221 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables — — 436 436 
Other payables — — 643 643 
Provisions — — 43 43 
Foreign exchange instruments — 3 — 3 
— 3 1,122 1,125 
Year ended 31 December 2014
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Fair value
 through profit
and loss
£’000
Amortised
cost
£’000
Total
carrying
amount
£’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables 1,794 — — 1,794 
Accrued income 593 — — 593 
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 — — 4,707 
7,094 — — 7,094 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables — — 588 588 
Other payables — — 802 802 
Provisions — — 36 36 
— — 1,426 1,426 
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
 • Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 • Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
 • Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group held a foreign exchange instrument that had been measured at fair value using Level 2 techniques. 
The Group held no foreign exchange instruments at 31 December 2014. 
Financial liabilities relate to derivative financial instruments which have a negative fair value. Fair value is calculated by reference to current forward 
exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 72
20. Financial instruments continued
Currency risk
The Group has exposures to the main currency types: US Dollar, Australian Dollar, Malaysian Ringgit and Euro rates in particular.
Currency exposure arises through intra-group loans and trading balances throughout all Group locations. Natural hedging is employed, to the 
extent possible, to minimise net exposures; however, where significant exposures arise outside of intra-group trading, it is Group policy to enter 
into formal hedging arrangements where these can be shown to be effective.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had the following outstanding foreign currency forward contracts (2014: nil):
Rate
Asset/
(liability)
Sell US$500,000 08-Feb-16 £/US$1.4880 (1)
Sell US$500,000 09-Feb-16 £/US$1.4882 (2)
Currency exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the 
operating unit involved, other than those borrowings treated as hedges of foreign equity investments. In general, all overseas operating units trade 
and hold assets and liabilities in their functional currency. 
Sensitivities
The following table details the Group’s sensitivities to a change in Sterling exchange rates against the respective foreign currencies. The sensitivities 
represent management’s assessment of the effect on monetary assets of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, which for 2015 and 2014 
take account of the potential fluctuations seen in the most recent periods. The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk 
at the year end has been determined based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout the financial year and all other variables 
remain constant. The impact of translating the net assets of foreign operations into Sterling is excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
A positive number indicates an increase in profit after taxation and other components of equity where Sterling weakens against the respective currencies. 
2015
Increase/decrease
in exchange rates
Effect on
profit before tax
£’000
Euro +20% (29) 
-20% 43 
Australian Dollar +20% (233) 
-20% 350 
US Dollar +20% (259) 
-20% 389 
Malaysian Ringgit +20% (27) 
-20% 41 
Singapore Dollar +20% (15) 
-20% 22 
2014
Increase/decrease
in exchange rates
Effect on
profit before tax
£’000
Euro +20% (51) 
-20% 76 
Australian Dollar +20% (244) 
-20% 367 
US Dollar +20% (158) 
-20% 237 
Malaysian Ringgit +20% (36) 
-20% 53 
Singapore Dollar +20% (1) 
-20% 2
The Group has no material exposure to interest rate sensitivities.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 73
21. Issued share capital
Ordinary shares allotted, called up and fully paid
Number
Nominal
value 
£’000
At 1 January 2014 60,535,978 3,027
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 2,697,500 135
At 31 December 2014 63,233,478 3,162
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 37,500 2
At 31 December 2015 63,270,978 3,164
The Company’s ordinary share capital consists of individual shares having a nominal value of 5 pence each.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
37 ,500 (2014: 2,697 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 there were outstanding options granted to acquire ordinary shares in the Company. See note 22 for further details.
There are no preference shares in issue (2014: none).
On 24 February 2015 at a shareholder general meeting, the Board proposed, and the Company’s shareholders duly approved, resolutions to 
allow the Company to apply to the High Court of Justice of England and Wales (the “Court”) to cancel its Share Premium Account and thereby 
create distributable reserves to support the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends, and make other returns of capital to shareholders. 
On 18 March 2015 the Court heard and approved the Company’s application.
An explanation of the Group’s capital management process and objectives is set out in the discussion of capital management on page 18 in the 
Strategic Report and capital risk disclosures in note 20.
22. Share-based payments
The following disclosures are in respect of both the Company and the Group.
The grant of all options and awards is made by the remuneration committee and such grants involve equity settlement. In granting executive share 
options the remuneration committee has regard to both the participant’s level of responsibility within the Group and to individual and Group performance.
Share Option Schemes 2010 
The Share Option Schemes 2010 were approved by shareholders on 30 December 2010, with amendments subsequently approved by shareholders 
on May 2012 and February 2015. The schemes consist of:
 • the Gresham Computing plc Enterprise Management Incentive Plan 2010;
 • the Gresham Computing plc Unapproved Share Option Plan 2010; and
 • the Gresham Computing plc Non Employee Share Option Plan 2010.
As its name implies, the EMI Plan operates as an enterprise management incentive scheme complying with the EMI Code and accordingly being 
entitled to certain beneficial tax treatment.
The Unapproved Plan enables the remuneration committee to grant share options in excess of the limits applicable under the EMI Code and/or to 
employees of the Group who do not qualify for EMI treatment.
The Non Employee Plan enables the remuneration committee to grant share options to persons whose services are made available to the Group 
without an employment relationship.
The remuneration committee is responsible for administering the Share Option Schemes 2010, and may grant options to acquire ordinary shares 
to any employees and Directors of the Group, and retains discretion to impose exercise performance conditions as appropriate. Options are granted 
free of charge and are non-transferable.
The exercise price per ordinary share is determined by the remuneration committee but will not be less than 110% of the middle market price for 
the dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant of the relevant option. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 74
22. Share-based payments continued
Share Option Schemes 2010 continued
Options may normally be exercised only on or after the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to completion of any relevant performance 
criteria, save to the extent that the remuneration committee in its discretion declares any other period for exercise and will lapse on cessation of 
such employment, save again to the extent the remuneration committee in its discretion allows it to remain exercisable for such period following 
the cessation as it may determine.
Exercise is permitted in conjunction with a takeover or similar transaction and in such circumstances the vesting period does not apply. In the event 
of a takeover, an option holder may, by agreement with the acquirer, exchange his options for options over shares in the acquiring Company.
At 31 December 2015, 28 participants held awards under this scheme (2014: 29).
Outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5 pence at 31 December 2015, including those noted in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
are as follows:
Share Option Schemes 2010 (options) Number
WAEP
(pence) Number
WAEP
(pence) 
Outstanding at 1 January 4,198,000 29 6,925,500 37 
Granted during the year 1,500,000 111  —  — 
Forfeited during the year (40,000) 96 (30,000) 96 
Exercised during the year (37,500) 28 (2,697,500) 28 
Outstanding at 31 December 5,620,500 64  4,198,000  47 
Exercisable at 31 December 3,690,500 41 2,493,000 29 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 6.70 6.68  
No price is payable on award of share options.
Outstanding options and awards to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5 pence at 31 December 2015, including those noted in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report showing the range of exercise prices and dates, are as follows:
Share Option Schemes 2010
Number
of share
options
Date of
grant
Exercise
price
£
Date first
exercisable
Expiry
date
Cash
receivable if
exercised £
2,417,500 31-Dec-10 0.2805 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-20 678,109 
38,000 05-Aug-11 0.5803 05-Aug-14 05-Aug-21 22,051 
1,000,000 06-Apr-12 0.6424 06-Apr-15 06-Apr-22 642,400 
100,000 23-May-12 0.6105 23-May-15 23-May-22 61,050 
135,000 15-Aug-12 0.6850 15-Aug-15 15-Aug-22 92,475 
380,000 01-Aug-13 0.9630 01-Aug-16 01-Aug-23 365,940 
50,000 07-Oct-13 1.3230 07-Oct-16 07-Oct-23 66,150 
1,500,000 01-Jun-15 1.1057 01-Jun-18 01-Jun-25 1,658,580 
3,586,755 
Outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 5 pence at 31 December 2014, including those noted in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
showing the range of exercise prices and dates, are as follows:
Share Option Schemes 2010
Number
of share
options
Date of
grant
Exercise
price
£
Date first
exercisable
Expiry
date
Cash
receivable if
exercised £
2,455,000 31-Dec-10 0.2805 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-20 688,628 
38,000 05-Aug-11 0.5803 05-Aug-14 05-Aug-21 22,051 
1,000,000 06-Apr-12 0.6424 06-Apr-15 06-Apr-22 642,400 
100,000 23-May-12 0.6105 23-May-15 23-May-22 61,050 
135,000 15-Aug-12 0.6850 15-Aug-15 15-Aug-22 92,475 
450,000 01-Aug-13 0.9630 01-Aug-16 01-Aug-23 433,350 
50,000 07-Oct-13 1.3230 07-Oct-16 07-Oct-23 66,150 
2,006,104 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 75
22. Share-based payments continued
Share Option Schemes 2010 continued
The fair value of outstanding equity-settled share options granted was estimated as at the date of grant as follows:
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted by the Share Option Schemes 2010 is estimated as at the date of grant using a Black Scholes 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. In all cases, the exercise price is at least 110% of the 
market price on the day prior to the date of grant. 
The following table lists the range of inputs to the model used for the grants made:
2015 grants 2013 grants 2012 grants 2011 grants 2010 grants
Vesting date 1-Jun-18
1-Aug-16 to
7-Oct-16
6-Apr-15 to
15-Aug-15 5-Aug-14 31-Dec-13
Expiry date (number of years after grant) 10 10 10 10 10
Exercise price £1.11 £0.96 – £1.32 £0.61 – £0.69 £0.58 £0.28
Share price at valuation £1.01 £0.84 – £1.16 £0.52 – £0.58 £0.53 £0.26
Vested options’ expected life 5.8 years 5.6 years 5.6 years 5.6 years 5.9 years
Volatility 20.0%
(1)
20.0%
(1)
30.0%
(1)
46.3%
(1)
43.8%
(1)
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Risk free rate 1.0%
(2)
1.0%
(2)
1.0%
(2)
2.7%
(2)
3.5%
(2)
Impact of continued employment conditions 30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
30%
(3)
(1) Expected future volatility, based on historical analysis and trend
(2) Spot yield on valuation date of UK Government bonds with a comparable maturity date
(3) Attrition rate on average
Vesting of options is reliant on achievement of any relevant performance conditions set by the remuneration committee which typically take the 
form of sales-based targets. 
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected 
volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. 
No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
The expense recognised in the income statement for all equity-settled share-based payments in respect of employee services received is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Expense recognised in respect of share-based payments 110 50  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 76
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Reconciliation of movements in equity
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Currency
translation
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 1 January 2014 3,027 15,906 313 17 (8,214) 11,049 
Attributable profit for the period — — — — 1,095 1,095 
Other comprehensive expense — — — (55) — (55)
Total comprehensive income — — — (55) 1,095 1,040 
Exercise of share options 135 616 — — — 751 
Share-based payment expense — — — — 50 50 
At 31 December 2014 3,162 16,522 313 (38) (7,069) 12,890 
Attributable profit for the period — — — — 1,950 1,950 
Other comprehensive expense — — — (27) — (27)
Total comprehensive income — — — (27) 1,950 1,923 
Share premium cancellation — (16,522) — — 16,522 — 
Exercise of share options 2 9 — — — 11 
Share-based payment expense — — — — 110 110 
At 31 December 2015 3,164 9 313 (65) 11,513 14,934 
Share capital
The balance classified as share capital represents the nominal value arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 
5 pence ordinary shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
37 ,500 (2014: 2,697 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
On 24 February 2015 at a shareholder general meeting, the Board proposed, and the Company’s shareholders duly approved, resolutions to 
allow the Company to apply to the High Court of Justice of England and Wales (the “Court”) to cancel its Share Premium Account and thereby 
create distributable reserves to support the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends, and make other returns of capital to shareholders. 
On 18 March 2015 the Court heard and approved the Company’s application.
Share premium
The balance classified as share premium represents the premium arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5 pence 
ordinary shares, net of share issue expenses. There are restrictions on the use of the Share Premium Account. It can only be used for bonus issues, 
to provide for the premium payable on redemption of debentures, or to write off preliminary expenses, or expenses of, or commissions paid on, 
or discounts allowed on, the same issues of shares or debentures of the Company.
Other reserves
The balance classified as other reserves comprises a special reserve of £313,000. The special reserve arose on the cancellation of deferred 
ordinary shares in June 1992.
The merger reserve of £726,000 recorded in the prior year has been transferred to retained earnings following the disposals of the associated 
investments. The merger reserve arose on issue of shares in respect of acquisitions and mergers in the period 1992 to 1999.
Currency translation reserves
The currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Retained earnings
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to reserves at 31 December 2015 and 2014 is £7 ,326,000. Goodwill previously written off to 
reserves will remain so written off.  Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 77
24. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2015, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £nil (2014: £nil).
25. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities
In the normal course of business, the Parent Company has issued general guarantees in respect of the contractual obligations of certain subsidiary 
undertakings from which no liability is expected to arise.
26. Related party transactions 
There is no single party known that the Directors consider to be a controlling shareholder or ultimate parent undertaking. Refer to page 35 for 
details of all significant shareholders that the Company has been notified of.
The services of M Royde, Non-Executive Director, are provided and invoiced by Kestrel Partners LLP , a company in which he has an ownership 
interest. During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company was charged £30,000 by Kestrel Partners LLP (2014: £30,000), none of which 
(2014: £nil) remained unpaid at the year end. The total value of transactions with Kestrel Partners LLP in respect of the provision of M Royde’s 
services is shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 78
Company balance sheet
Notes
31 December
2015
£’000
31 December
2014
£’000
Fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 22 — 
Investments 6 9,963  9,414 
 9,985  9,414 
Current assets
Debtors 7 14,122  11,603 
Cash at bank and in hand 2,431  2,799 
 16,553  14,402 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 6,908  4,095 
Net current assets 9,645  10,307 
Total assets less current liabilities 19,630  19,721 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 3,164  3,162 
Share premium account 11 9  16,522 
Special reserve 11 313  313 
Merger reserve 11 1,360  1,360 
Profit and loss account 11 14,784  (1,636) 
Shareholders’ funds – equity interests 11 19,630  19,721 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 7 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Manocha Rob Grubb
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
7 March 2016 7 March 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 79
Company statement of changes in equity
Share 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium
£’000
Special 
reserve
£’000
Merger 
reserve
£’000
Profit and 
loss account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 3,027  15,906  313  1,360  (743)  19,863 
Exercise of share options 135  616  —  —  —  751 
Share-based payments expense —  —  —  —  50  50 
Retained loss for the year —  —  —  —  (943)  (943) 
At 31 December 2014 3,162  16,522  313  1,360  (1,636)  19,721 
Exercise of share options 2  9  —  —  —  11 
Share premium cancellation (16,522)  —  —  16,522 
Share-based payments expense —  —  —  —  110  110 
Retained loss for the year —  —  —  —  (212)  (212) 
At 31 December 2015 3,164  9  313  1,360  14,784  19,630  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 80
Notes to the Company financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Parent Company financial statements of Gresham Computing plc (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting 
Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and as required 
by the Companies Act 2006. 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for financial instruments that are measured at fair value 
and were approved for issue on 7 March 2016.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. For the year ended 
31 December 2015, the Company recorded a loss of £212,000 (2014: loss of £943,000).
Disclosure exemptions adopted
In preparing these financial statements the Company has taken advantage of all disclosure exemptions conferred by FRS 101. Therefore these 
financial statements do not include:
 • certain comparative information as otherwise required by EU-endorsed IFRSs;
 • certain disclosures regarding the Company’s capital;
 • a statement of cashflows;
 • the effect of future accounting standards not yet adopted;
 • the disclosure of the remuneration of key management personnel; and
 • the disclosure of related party transactions with other wholly owned members of the Gresham Computing plc Group.
In addition, and in accordance with FRS 101, further disclosure exemptions have been adopted because equivalent disclosures are included in the 
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements do not include certain disclosures in respect of:
 • share-based payments;
 • business combinations;
 • assets held for sale and discontinued operations;
 • financial instruments (other than certain disclosures required as a result of recording financial instruments at fair value);
 • fair value measurement (other than certain disclosures required as a result of recording financial instruments at fair value); and
 • impairment of assets.
Investments
Investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment. 
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are included in this category. Financial assets are 
classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated 
as hedging instruments. Assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
recognised in the profit and loss account.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or Group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss 
is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cashflows (excluding future credit losses 
that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognised in administration costs.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after 
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
in the profit and loss account to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Other receivables
Where the time value of money is material, other receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that 
the Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 81
1. Accounting policies continued
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions 
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. 
Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the 
inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements. A net 
deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as 
more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured, on an undiscounted basis, at rates expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date as they apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at an approximation of the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Resulting exchange 
gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments
The Company uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. Such instruments are stated 
at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the profit and loss account in the period.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are wholly owned 
subsidiary undertakings of the Gresham Computing plc Group.
Leasing commitments
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are 
recognised over the shorter of the lease term and the period to the next rent review.
Classification of shares as debt or equity
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities. Accordingly, a financial 
instrument is treated as equity if:
(i)  there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms that may be 
unfavourable; and
(ii)  the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual obligations to deliver a variable number of shares or is a derivative that will be 
settled only by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a fixed number of the Company’s own equity instruments.
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company is presented as a liability in the balance sheet, measured 
initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption. The corresponding 
dividends relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the income statement. The initial fair value of the liability component 
is determined using a market rate for an equivalent liability without a conversion feature.
The remainder of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of transaction costs. 
The carrying amount of the equity component is not remeasured in subsequent years.
Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the shares based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability 
and equity components when the instruments are first recognised. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 82
1. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments – equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is 
recognised in the Company financial statements as a capital contribution to the subsidiaries for whom the employees perform services, with the 
credit entry being made to reserves, over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to 
the award. 
Fair value of awards with a market condition-based performance target is determined by an external valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares 
of the Company (market conditions). Fair value of awards with a financial result-based performance target is determined by management using the 
Black Scholes pricing model.
No capital contribution is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market 
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions 
are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense 
since the previous balance sheet date is recognised as a capital contribution, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based 
on the original award terms continues to be recognised as a capital contribution over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is 
recognised as a capital contribution over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the 
difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. 
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is recorded as a capital contribution immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation 
or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as a capital contribution in the balance sheet.
2. Auditor’s remuneration
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Audit of the financial statements
Audit services – Parent 8 7 
8 7 
Additional information
Audit services – Group 15 13 
Audit services – subsidiaries 37 36 
52 49 
Non-audit fees
Corporate taxation services 2 2 
Share option scheme establishment — — 
 2  2 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 83
3. Directors’ remuneration
Information concerning Directors’ remuneration and gains on exercise of share options can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
beginning on page 27 and in note 7 to the Group financial statements.
4. Dividends paid and proposed 
No dividends were declared or paid during the year and no dividends will be proposed for approval at the AGM (2014: none).
5. Property, plant and equipment
31 December 2015 
Fixtures
and fittings
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 — — 
Additions 31 31 
At 31 December 2015 31 31 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2015 — — 
Charge for year (9) (9)
At 31 December 2015 (9) (9)
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 22 22 
At 1 January 2015 — — 
6. Investments
Subsidiaries
2015
£’000
Subsidiaries
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 23,006 22,956 
Capital contribution – additional investment 25 —
Capital contribution – capitalisation of inter-company debt 414 —
Capital contribution – share-based payments 110  50 
At 31 December 23,555 23,006 
Impairment provisions
At 1 January 13,592 13,592 
At 31 December 13,592 13,592 
Net book value
At 31 December 9,963 9,414  Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 84
6. Investments continued
Details of the investments in which the Group holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital are as follows:
Name of subsidiary
company
Country of
incorporation
Holding
(shares)
Proportion of
voting rights and
shares held Nature of business
Gresham Computer Services Limited England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Financial Systems Limited England Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Enterprise Storage Inc
(3)
USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pty Limited
(3)
Australia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Sdn Bhd
(1)
Malaysia Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Pte. Limited Singapore Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Computing Inc
(1,3)
USA Ordinary 100% Software solutions
Gresham Consultancy Services Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Casablanca Software Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Circa Selection Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Technologies Limited
(2,4)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Gresham Telecomputing Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Circa Business Systems Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
Cheerkeep Limited
(2)
England Ordinary 100% Dormant
(1) Held by a subsidiary undertaking 
(2) Subsidiary exempt from UK audit under section 480a of the Companies Act 2006
(3) Subsidiary has no requirement for a local statutory audit
(4) Name changed from Gresham Software Limited on 6 March 2014
The following wholly owned subsidiaries were dissolved during the year ended 31 December 2015 following an application by the Company 
to strike off voluntarily:
 • Casablanca Software Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015.
 • Circa Selection Limited – dissolved 10 February 2015.
The following wholly owned subsidiaries were dissolved during the year ended 31 December 2014 following an application by the Company 
to strike off voluntarily:
 • Clareti Systems Limited – dissolved 1 April 2014.
 • ITEC Computer Broking Limited – dissolved 8 July 2014.
 • Gresham Computer Personal Limited – dissolved 8 July 2014.
7 . Debtors
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 14,078  11,528 
VAT receivable 36  27 
Prepayments and accrued income 8  48 
 14,122  11,603 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 85
8. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 6,732 3,995 
Trade creditors 175  98 
Other creditors and accruals 1  2 
 6,908 4,095 
9. Deferred tax
The Company has an unrecognised deferred tax asset as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Share-based payments 171 135 
Tax losses 110 79 
 281 214 
10. Issued share capital
Ordinary shares allotted, called up and fully paid Number
Nominal
value 
£’000
At 1 January 2014 60,535,978 3,027 
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 2,697,500 135 
At 31 December 2014 63,233,478 3,162 
Exercise of share options (see note 22) 37,500 2 
At 31 December 2015 63,270,978 3,164 
The Company’s ordinary share capital consists of individual shares having a nominal value of 5 pence each.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
37 ,500 (2014: 2,697 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial 
statements for further details.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 there were outstanding options granted to acquire ordinary shares in the Company. See note 22 for further details.
There are no preference shares in issue (2014: none).
On 24 February 2015 at a shareholder general meeting, the Board proposed, and the Company’s shareholders duly approved, resolutions to 
allow the Company to apply to the High Court of Justice of England and Wales (the “Court”) to cancel its Share Premium Account and thereby 
create distributable reserves to support the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends, and make other returns of capital to shareholders. 
On 18 March 2015 the Court heard and approved the Company’s application. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 86
11. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Special
reserve
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Profit and
loss account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2014 3,027 15,906 313 1,360 (743) 19,863 
Exercise of share options 135 616 — — — 751 
Share-based payments expense — — — — 50 50 
Retained loss for the year — — — — (943) (943) 
At 31 December 2014 3,162 16,522 313 1,360 (1,636) 19,721 
Exercise of share options 2  9 — — — 11 
Share premium cancellation (16,522) — — 16,522 
Share-based payments expense — — — — 110  110 
Retained loss for the year — — — — (212)  (212) 
At 31 December 2015 3,164 9 313 1,360  14,784  19,630 
Share capital
The balance classified as share capital represents the nominal value arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 
5 pence ordinary shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, share options granted under the 2010 Share Option Schemes were exercised and the Group issued 
37 ,500 (2014: 2,697 ,500) ordinary shares accordingly (ranking pari passu with existing shares in issue). See note 22 of the Group financial statements 
for further details.
On 24 February 2015 at a shareholder general meeting, the Board proposed, and the Company’s shareholders duly approved, resolutions to 
allow the Company to apply to the High Court of Justice of England and Wales (the “Court”) to cancel its Share Premium Account and thereby 
create distributable reserves to support the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends, and make other returns of capital to shareholders. 
On 18 March 2015 the Court heard and approved the Company’s application.
Share premium
The balance classified as share premium represents the premium arising from the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5 pence 
ordinary shares, net of share issue expenses. There are restrictions on the use of the Share Premium Account. It can only be used for bonus issues, 
to provide for the premium payable on redemption of debentures, or to write off preliminary expenses, or expenses of, or commissions paid on, 
or discounts allowed on, the same issues of shares or debentures of the Company.
Other reserves
The balance classified as other reserves comprises a special reserve of £313,000. The special reserve arose on the cancellation of deferred 
ordinary shares in June 1992.
The merger reserve arose on issue of shares in respect of acquisitions and mergers in the period 1992 to 1999.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 87
12. Obligations under leases
Operating lease agreements where the Company is lessee
The Company has entered into commercial leases on certain properties that have an average minimum duration of between one and five years. 
There are no unusual restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and
buildings
2015
£’000
Other
2015
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Land and
buildings
2014
£’000
Other
2014
£’000
Total
2014
£’000
Not later than one year 222 — 222 243 — 243 
After one but not more than five years 172 — 172 394 — 394 
394 — 394 637 — 637 
Operating lease agreements where the Company is lessor
The Company has no lease arrangements where it is lessor. 
13. Capital commitments 
At 31 December 2015, Company amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment amounted to £nil (2014: £nil).
14. Contingent liabilities 
In the normal course of business, the Company has issued general guarantees in respect of the contractual obligations of certain subsidiary undertakings. 
15. Share-based payments
Share-based payments in respect of both the Company and the Group are disclosed in note 22 of the Group financial statements.
16. Related party transactions
There is no single party known that the Directors consider to be a controlling shareholder or ultimate parent undertaking. Refer to page 35 for 
details of all significant shareholders that the Company has been notified of.
The services of M Royde, Non-Executive Director, are provided and invoiced by Kestrel Partners LLP , a company in which he has an ownership 
interest. During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company was charged £30,000 by Kestrel Partners LLP (2014: £30,000), none of which 
(2014: £nil) remained unpaid at the year end. The total value of transactions with Kestrel Partners LLP in respect of the provision of M Royde’s 
services is shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
17 . First time adoption of FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework
This is the first time that the Company has adopted FRS 101 having previously applied applicable UK accounting standards. The date of transition 
to FRS 101, was 1 January 2014. In applying FRS 101 for the first time the Company has made the election to retain the carrying amounts of property, 
plant and equipment at the previous carrying amounts under applicable UK accounting standards.
Other than the adoption of the reduced disclosures there was no material effect of applying FRS 101 for the first time, and there are no 
differences in the numbers reported as a result of the transition to FRS 101. The disclosure exemptions adopted are included in note 1 
to the Company financial statements. Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 88
Corporate information
Registered office
Aldermary House 
10–15 Queen Street 
London 
EC4N 1TX
Auditor
BDO LLP
Arcadia House 
Maritime Walk 
Ocean Village 
Southampton 
SO14 3TL
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Broker and financial adviser
N+1 Singer Capital Markets Limited
One Bartholomew Lane 
London 
EC2N 2AX
Solicitors
Shoosmiths LLP
Russell House 
1550 Parkway 
Solent Business Park 
Whiteley 
Hampshire 
PO15 7AG
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc
55 Above Bar Street 
Southampton 
SO14 7DZ
Annual General Meeting
Thursday 28 April 2016 
N+1 Singer Capital Markets Limited 
One Bartholomew Lane 
London 
EC2N 2AX  Gresham Computing plc
Aldermary House
10 – 15 Queen Street
London
EC4N 1TX
investorrelations@gresham-computing.com
gresham-computing.com
